CCNC 'VP is a team that just beats you into the ground in lanes'
2017-11-06 |  OpTic Gaming’s CCnC on the Origins of OpTic by ROG of ASUS ROG (Republic of Gamers) at ASUS ROG MASTERS 2017
2018-12-06 |  Position Six Podcast Episode 8 - Featuring CCNC by Dan Offen of Position Six Podcast
Despite ultimately falling short in Birmingham, OpTic was given another chance to qualify for a direct invite to The International 2018 when they were announced as OG's replacement at the SuperMajor. The team managed to qualify for the Upper Bracket by finishing second in their group, with both of their series wins coming against VGJ.Thunder, the team that was holding onto the 8th slot in the DPC rankings. Quinn performed exceptionally well in the final game of the deciding series as he killed Freeze twice in a span of 23 seconds during the laning stage and ultimately snowballed from his early momentum to finish 12-2-7 as Bloodseeker while leading OpTic to a swift, decisive victory. OpTic matched up against Team Secret in the first round and managed to win Game 1, but Secret stormed back to win the series as Quinn was unable to replicate his previous success with Bloodseeker and struggled mightily in Game 3, dying four times in the first 10 minutes. OpTic defeated their North American rivals Evil Geniuses 2-0 in their first lower bracket matchup and advanced to face off against TNC Predator, a team that was also still eligible for a direct invite to TI if they could make a deep run in the tournament. By this point, VGJ.Thunder had been eliminated by Newbee which meant that OpTic were in control of their own destiny and could secure a direct invite to TI8 if they could win their next two series. Quinn had another dominant Bloodseeker performance in OpTic's Game 1 victory and put on an even more impressive display as Huskar in Game 2 as he racked up 18 kills in just 21 minutes to lead OpTic past TNC and into the series that would determine whether they would be invited to TI8. OpTic's opponent for that series would be none other than their arch nemesis Virtus.Pro, the team that had already eliminated them from two majors and effectively neutralized Quinn in almost all of his games against them. Although OpTic posed a far greater threat to VP than they had in previous series, the third time unfortunately wasn't the charm for them and VP defeated them 2-0, thus eliminating them from the tournament and sentencing them to play in the North American Qualifiers to secure a spot at The International 2018.
Quinn is the all time leader in premium/professional matches played (79) and wins (59) as Void Spirit.
↑ "CCNC told Mason, If your team makes a LAN, I'll quit Dota". YouTube. 2017-01-27.
OpTic finished 1st in their group at ESL One Birmingham after defeating Mineski on the back of a dominant 17-3-14 performance by Quinn on Queen of Pain in Game 3. In the First Place Decider round, Quinn's struggles against Virtus.Pro continued and he went 0-6-3 as OpTic was defeated in less than 30 minutes. Quinn recovered in the team's next game against OG and managed to kill s4 three times in the first 12 minutes of the game in addition to taking OG's middle tier 1 tower. The team rallied behind the pushing power of Quinn's Death Prophet and 33's Visage to secure both a sub 30 minute victory and a quarterfinal bye. OpTic and Fnatic once again met in the semifinals, just like they had at Starladder, with OpTic emerging victorious once again to advance to the Grand Final where they would face Virtus.Pro. OpTic was once again rolled over in less than 30 minutes in Game 1, although Quinn held his own against No[o]ne- throughout the laning stage. OpTic showed much more resilience in Game 2 but were still losing key fights and found themselves down a lane of barracks around the 30 minute mark. Another defeat for OpTic seemed imminent as Virtus.Pro mounted a push towards their bottom lane barracks, but Quinn's triple kill as Razor kept OpTic in the game and reduced the net worth difference between the two teams down to 0. Unfortunately for Quinn and the rest of OpTic, they were unable to take control of the game and ultimately lost before going on to lose Game 3 in less than 20 minutes.
"CCNC told Mason, If your team makes a LAN, I'll quit Dota". YouTube. 2017-01-27.
While OpTic would likely have been considered a favourite to qualify regardless of slot allocation, Valve's decision to grant North America with three slots caused many in the community to peg OpTic as a lock for one of the slots, barring a major upset by compLexity Gaming or Immortals, who had fallen out of form since the beginning of the season and subsequently underwent numerous roster changes. OpTic finished with a 6-1 record in the Group Stage and found themselves in a tiebreaker situation with VGJ.Storm and Evil Geniuses for 1st in the group, which would guarantee a spot at TI. Quinn was likely experiencing deja vu as this was the exact same situation he was in with Team Freedom the year prior, and just like last year, Quinn's team was ultimately defeated and would have to compete in the Playoffs. OpTic matched up against Immortals in the first round of the playoffs but were surprisingly defeated, forcing OpTic into yet another elimination series against compLexity. Although Quinn struggled as Lina in Game 1, OpTic emerged victorious and he rallied in Game 2 to lead his team in kills as OpTic won again to eliminate compLexity and set up a rematch with Immortals in the Lower Bracket Finals for the final North American slot. OpTic drafted an incredibly push heavy team in Game 1 that enabled them to take a full set of barracks less than 15 minutes in as they rolled over Immortals and emerged victorious after just 21 minutes. In Game 2, arguably the most important game of Quinn's professional career to date, Quinn put on a legendary display as Mirana that included back to back triple kills, the latter of which prompted Immortals to call "GG" thus sending Quinn and the rest of OpTic to The International 2018.
Text/code is available under CC-BY-SA. Licenses for other media varies.
OpTic immediately began to thrive following the roster change as the team managed to qualify for the Bucharest Major, ESL One Katowice 2018 and the Dota 2 Asia Championships 2018. In the final game of the Lower Bracket Final of the DAC NA Qualifier, Quinn managed to secure OpTic's victory and subsequent Major slot by killing all three of compLexity's cores as Puck after they had bought back. OpTic bested compLexity once again in an elimination series at ESL One Katowice on the back of another dominant Game 3 performance from Quinn, who went 14-2-7 as Queen of Pain after killing Limmp three times in the first 10 minutes of the game. After being eliminated from ESL One Katowice by Team Liquid, OpTic moved on to the Bucharest Major where they once again found themselves in an elimination scenario against compLexity. OpTic prevailed but were eliminated in the Quarterfinals by the eventual champions Virtus.Pro; Quinn struggled mightily against VP throughout the tournament, as he posted a modest 3-5-3 score on Death Prophet in both Quarterfinal games and had also gone 1-7-12 as Storm Spirit in their group stage victory. At the Dota 2 Asia Championships, OpTic eliminated Invictus Gaming who had won the previous iteration of the tournament, but they were knocked down to the lower bracket by the eventual champions Mineski and subsequently eliminated by TNC Predator. OpTic had qualified for the 5th StarLadder i-League Invitational in between the Bucharest Major and DAC and placed first in their group at the event after dominant performances against Team Kinguin and VGJ.Thunder. OpTic defeated Fnatic in the playoffs to advance to the Grand Final and after dropping the first game to VGJ.Thunder, OpTic won the next three games to secure their first tournament victory of the DPC season. OpTic's victory was also Quinn's maiden LAN victory in his professional career and his ability to step up in decisive games was reinforced by him leading OpTic in kills as Razor in Game 4. OpTic only lost three games throughout the entire tournament and they each came in games that were 53 minutes or longer while none of their victories took more than 40 minutes, a testament to the team's dominance. The following week, OpTic qualified for ESL One Birmingham 2018 as they looked poised to make a late season push towards securing a direct invite to The International 2018.
Ultimately, OpTic's inability to defeat Virtus.Pro prevented them from reaching greater heights throughout the 2017-18 DPC Season. This was obviously not a simple task, as Virtus.Pro was the #1 ranked team and Quinn's personal struggles against VP could be attributed to VP's incredible chemistry and ability to shut down Quinn, thus mitigating his ability to rack up a few kills and snowball out of control, which he had done to many other teams. Regardless, OpTic ultimately secured a Top 8 finish on Dota 2's grandest stage, which is still a significant achievement even if the team fell short of their ultimate goal. In just over a year's time, Quinn went from being a panelist to establishing himself as a premier mid laner who was just starting to leave his mark on the professional Dota 2 scene. Despite OpTic's success at TI8, the organization released the squad and the players began to split up as 33 and ppd joined Ninjas in Pyjamas, zai joined Team Secret and Pajkatt took a small break from playing professionally. As for Quinn, he decided to embark upon a journey to a new region and joined Ritsu, 4dr, Lelis and former Team Freedom teammate FLee to form paiN X, a team that would be competing in South America as the second team of the paiN organization.
2017-05-17 |  CCnC sheds light on isGG’s recent surge in form by Ollie Ring of redbull.com
liquipedia Dota 2MainWikisAlphaWikisPre AlphaWikisFavorites0Brawl StarsDota 2VALORANTCounter-StrikeRocket LeaguePUBG MobileLeague of LegendsApex LegendsStarCraft IIRainbow SixOverwatchMobile LegendsPUBGSmashAge of EmpiresWild RiftWarcraftBrood WarHeroesHearthstoneArtifactCommonsFighting GamesArena of ValorFree FireCall of DutyTrackmaniaPokémonFortniteHaloFIFAArena FPSClash RoyaleWorld of WarcraftTeam FortressSideswipePaladinsTetrisZulaTeamfight TacticsCrossfireSplitgateBrawlhallaSplatoonNaraka: BladepointSim RacingRuneterraBattalion 1944Critical OpsDota UnderlordsAutochessSquadronsMagicBattlerite
TournamentsUpcoming DPC NA 2023 T2 D1 DPC SEA 2023 T2 D1 DPC WEU 2023 T2 D1 DPC SA 2023 T2 OQ2 DPC CN 2023 T2 OQ1 DPC NA 2023 T2 OQ1 DPC EEU 2023 T2 OQ1 DPC WEU 2023 T2 OQ1 DPC SEA 2023 T2 OQ2 DPC CN 2023 T2 D1 DPC SA 2023 T2 D1 DPC EEU 2023 T2 D1 DPC SA 2023 T2 OQ1 DPC SEA 2023 T2 OQ1Ongoing EPL World Series AM S4 EPL Season 7 Arena AnthemCompleted Lima Major 2023 BTS Pro Series S14: AM BTS Pro Series S14: SEA BetBoom Universe DPC CN 2023 T1 D1 DPC WEU 2023 T1 D1 DPC SA 2023 T1 D1 DPC SEA 2023 T1 D1 DPC EEU 2023 T1 D1 DPC NA 2023 T1 D1 M. Invitational 2023 Xmas Show 2022 BTS Pro Series S13: AM TI11 All-Star Match TI11 TI11 LCQ BTS Pro Series S12: SEA[ edit ]
OpTic initially struggled at The International and entered the final day of the Group Stage as the last place team in their group. However, the team remained disciplined and managed to win all four of their scheduled matches which allowed them to not only avoid elimination but also to play against Team Secret and Newbee for a spot in the upper bracket. OpTic had previously defeated Newbee 2-0 and managed to win once again as Quinn recovered from two early deaths to finish 10-2-13 as Mirana. As a result, OpTic secured a spot in the upper bracket and found themselves matched up against Team Liquid, the champions of the previous International, in the opening series of the Main Event. Liquid easily dispatched OpTic 2-0 and OpTic dropped down to the lower bracket where they would face off against Team Serenity, who they had tied against in the group stage. Quinn stepped up with two incredible performances, as he first went 16-0-10 on Storm Spirit to lead OpTic to victory in Game 1 before going 11-2-14 as Alchemist in Game 2. OpTic secured a Top 8 finish as they advanced to the next round, where they were met by their ultimate foe, Virtus.Pro. OpTic had one last shot to overcome the CIS powerhouse that had crushed their dreams on so many occasions and they came out with a vengeance in Game 1 as Quinn and Pajkatt each went 11-0 to secure a 31 minute victory. However, the #1 ranked team would not be easily dispatched as VP absolutely obliterated OpTic in Game 2. Their 62 kills were the most recorded by any team in a single game at TI8, although Quinn still managed to finish the game with an even KDA ratio of 8-8-9. Quinn struggled mightily in the decisive third game and led OpTic in deaths as he finished 2-10-5 on Lina en route to another elimination at the hands of Virtus.Pro.
2021-11-11 |  Position Six Podcast 117 - Quinn by Daniel Offen of joinDOTA
2021-11-08 |  Quinn from Quincy Crew Breaks Down His New Team | The Post-Shuffle Interviews with Nomad by Nomad
Quinn from Quincy Crew Breaks Down His New Team | The Post-Shuffle Interviews with Nomad
"CCNC told Mason, If your team makes a LAN, I'll quit Dota"
In January 2017, Quinn infamously told mason "If you make a lan [sic] (Note: with Team Onyx), I'll quit Dota".[1] Despite mason qualifying for The Kiev Major 2017 as a member of Team Onyx, Quinn did not retire and eventually joined Team Freedom. The two would end up meeting each other in the Grand Finals of the The International 2017 North America Qualifier, with mason, now a member of Digital Chaos, advancing to The International 2017 following a 3-0 victory.
OpTic Gaming’s CCnC on the Origins of OpTic by ROG
Quinn began playing Dota 2 in December 2012 and initially gained notoriety for his stints with FDL. While the team had some success in regional tournaments, including top 3 finishes in Season 7 of the Canada Cup and the 6th ProDotA American Cup, they struggled against international teams at events such as The Summit 7 and the Northern Arena BEAT Invitational. Quinn eventually joined is GG (which was later signed by Team Freedom) and went on to win Season 8 of the BEAT Invitational (formerly known as the Canada Cup). In the TI7 North American Qualifier, Freedom had an extremely successful group stage and managed to defeat every team except for Team Red which forced them into a tiebreaker with Team NP where the winner would advance directly to The International 2017. Freedom was defeated and thus would have to battle compLexity Gaming, Planet Odd and Digital Chaos in the playoffs for the final North American slot. Freedom handily defeated compLexity in the opening round and advanced past Digital Chaos to move to the Grand Finals, however, DC ultimately defeated Freedom 3-0 to advance to TI7, a defeat that was likely especially painful for Quinn due to his personal rivalry with mason (see Trivia).
Quinn "Quinn" Callahan (formerly known as "CCnC") (born September 9, 1999) is an American Dota 2 player who is currently playing for Gaimin Gladiators.
ToolsGeneral Recent changes Pending changes Random page Stream Page Betting PreferencesSpecific What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Printable version Permanent link Page information What links here globally Browse SMW properties
ContributeEdit an ArticleCreate an ArticleHelp PortalNotability GuidelinesChat With UsFeedback Thread
Quinn ultimately ended up attending TI7 after he was invited as an analyst by Valve. He was a mainstay on the panel throughout the group stage and after the event concluded, he joined fellow analysts Pajkatt and ppd on The Dire in addition to European veterans MiSeRy and zai. The team experienced initial success by winning the King's Cup to qualify for The Summit 8 and continued to rack up victories in subsequent qualifiers, but they ultimately fell short of qualifying for PGL Open Bucharest and the third StarLadder i-League Invitational after losing to Immortals and compLexity Gaming, respectively. The squad was signed by OpTic Gaming, however their qualifier woes continued and they did not qualify for any DPC events for the remainder of the year (Galaxy Battles II had it's Major status revoked by Valve). OpTic went undefeated during the group stage at the ROG Masters 2017 and advanced to the Grand Finals, where they took a 2-1 series lead over Team Empire. After Empire won Game 4, the series went to a decisive Game 5 that lasted over an hour and despite Quinn's exceptional performance on Lina, in which he accounted for over half of OpTic's kills, Empire ultimately emerged victorious. After OpTic was handed an early exit by compLexity at The Summit 8, 33 was announced as the team's official replacement for MiSeRy heading into 2018.
This page was last edited on 6 March 2023, at 00:55.
2018-08-20 |  Interview with CCnC At TI8 Media Day by yamato77 of liquiddota.com at The International 2018
2018-05-26 |  CCNC 'VP is a team that just beats you into the ground in lanes' by Malystryx of joindota.com at ESL One Birmingham 2018
Had the highest average kills per game during Tour 1 (10.72) and Tour 3 (8.69) of the 2021/22 DPC NA Upper Division.
Share Twitter Facebook Reddit Tencent QQ VK Weibo WhatsApp Other
His career high for kills in a single game is 29. He achieved this feat while playing for Team Freedom as Lina in a round robin match against Planet Odd during the The International 2017 NA Qualifiers.
First American player to win a DPC Major, having won Lima Major 2023 with Gaimin Gladiators.
Many player transfers during the beginning of the 2017-2018 season were leaked by a reddit user named lgdamefan. A common allegation was that the account belonged to Quinn. This allegation became so popular, it became a meme and the inspiration behind a BTS skit starring Quinn and Ame.[2]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Gaudiosi, John (May 17, 2004). "Rome: First a Game, Now on TV". Wired.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Gaudiosi, John (May 17, 2004). "Rome: First a Game, Now on TV". Wired.
"Decisive Battles TV Show Seasons and Episode Guide". Archived from the original on November 19, 2010. Retrieved July 26, 2009.
This United States animated television series–-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
^ "Decisive Battles TV Show Seasons and Episode Guide". Archived from the original on November 19, 2010. Retrieved July 26, 2009.
This page was last edited on 16 January 2021, at 07:54 (UTC).
Alternatively, you can visit the Main Page or read more information about this type of error.
We could not find the above page on our servers.
