Light in Darkness is the first full-length album by the New York rock band, Transparent, which was released on June 6, 2013. The album has 11 original songs and was album was recorded over the span of 2011-2012.
Transparent is a rock band from upstate New York consisting of Matthew Sassano, Bradley Meise, and Quintin Olix . Transparent's song, "Bridges" is the main menu song on NASCAR The Game: Inside Line that was released on November 6, 2012. The band released their first full-length album, Light in Darkness, with 11 original songs on June 6, 2013. They have opened for bands such as Project 86, Scarlet White, and Cry to the Blind. The band was formed in October 2010. Their logo consists of a pink and purple ribcage.
Originally, the song "New World Order" was supposed to be the song on the game but was switched out for "Bridges".
"Bridges" is based on the prodigal son in the Bible. The song almost got thrown out initially because of the drum interpretation by a previous drummer before Jesse Sprinkle. It became the main menu song on NASCAR The Game: Inside Line for Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and Nintendo Wii. During the summer and fall of 2012, Alfred State College Digital Media Animation students made the music video for "Bridges". The music video director was Jeremy Schwartz, a professor for the Digital Media Department and has worked on Robot Chicken on Cartoon Network.
Lead singer and songwriter, Matthew Sassano was always involved in the music and arts within church and within his local scene from a young age. A video performance on YouTube of the band Skillet inspired him to start his own band as well as a trip in October 2010, when Sassano and now band manager, Steve Cox drove out to Indiana to see a Ron Paul campaign and when they returned, they started the band. The first song written was "Paranoid".A 4 song demo was released in July 2011. In October 2011, Matthew went out to New Mexico to visit family and during that trip, he wrote "Bridges". More songs were written and all recording for the full-length album "Light in Darkness" was completed in October 2012.
This page was last edited on 12 May 2022, at 20:42 (UTC).
Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations.
Transparency (data compression), the ideal result of lossy data compression
Transparency (market), in economics one of the theoretical conditions required for a free market to be efficient
Radical transparency in management actions and approaches that radically increase openness
Transparency International, an organization working for governance, corporate, banking and association transparency
Media transparency, in the communications industry determining how and why information is conveyed through various means
Transparency (telecommunication), the property by which a transmission system passes a signal through without changing its form or contentNetwork transparency, the ability of a protocol to transmit data over the network invisibly to those using the applications that are using the protocol
White Transparent, a cultivar of apple which is usually used for cooking due to its sharp taste
Transparency (projection), a thin sheet of transparent material for use with an overhead projector
"Transparent", a song by Suzi Quatro from her album Main Attraction
Transparency (optics), the physical property of allowing the transmission of light through a material
Alpha compositing, the process of combining an image with a backgroundImage masks in computer graphicsTransparency (graphic) in image formats, for overlay and translucencyTransparency (pseudo), or background translucency in the X or X11 Window System
Transparency (trade), a principle stipulating that a country's regulations affecting foreign trade should be clearly communicated
Transparency (wine), ability of a wine to portray all unique aspects of its flavor
Transparency (science), research conducted in the spirit of free and open source software
Transparency (album), a 1985 album by the Herb Robertson Quintet
Transparency (human–computer interaction), a change to a computer system that adheres to previous external interface as much as possible
Transparency, the property of a latch to show input changes immediately on output
This page was last edited on 21 December 2022, at 00:24 (UTC).
"Transparency", a song by PartyNextDoor from the 2016 album PartyNextDoor 3
3Arts, entertainment, and media											Toggle Arts, entertainment, and media subsection																					3.1Music																								3.1.1Groups and labels																											3.1.2Albums																											3.1.3Songs																														3.2Other uses in arts, entertainment, and media
Network transparency, the ability of a protocol to transmit data over the network invisibly to those using the applications that are using the protocol
Transparency (Guatemala), a political party in Guatemala (Transparencia) secuetran racto hoy 24/07/2021 atodo los de autoridad guatemala y mexico y en calle y trabajolos cosen en orno de panaderia depredador hoy racto encener nave gigante mundial entodo el tierro y universoy ponerlos en alado deesapacio ya aentarlos alo policias y familiares con lectura de mente vista x ideo orden marcos angel carmona cazarez y pais entero
Transparency (photography), a still, positive image created on a transparent base using photochemical means
Transparency (behavior), a metaphor implying visibility in contexts related to the behavior of individuals or groupsTransparency in government, see open government
Transparency (pseudo), or background translucency in the X or X11 Window System
Transparency (philosophy), a metaphor applied to a state in which the subject can be aware of being in that state
Transparency (linguistic), rhetoric to suit the widest possible audience without losing relevant information
Pentimento, an alteration in a painting, often revealed with growing transparency in paints with age
"Transparent", a song by In Flames from the album Reroute to Remain
Electromagnetically induced transparency, an effect in which a medium that is normally opaque is caused to become temporarily transparent
Location transparency, making the names used to identify network resources independent of both the user's location and the resource location
Kane, Matt. "Transgender Characters That Changed Film and Television." GLAAD. N.p., 19 Nov. 2012. Web. 5 June 2015.
Rosskam, Jules. "Transparent." Jules Rosskam. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 June 2015. 
MamSir Productions and directed, produced, and edited by Jules Rosskam with the help of Anat Salomon, Transparent was also contributed to with footage by Dyke TV, the Gavin-Smyth Family, and Evan Schwartz.Additional Thanks to: Lani Lacovelli, Elizabeth Cline, Elizabeth McCarthy, Anezka Sebek, Sam Feder, Lori Barrett, Chris Baronofski, Marilyn and Skip Rosskam, Tristan Taormino, Bennington College, In the Life Media, the New York City Trans Community, and the Leslie Lohman Gay Art Foundation.Special thanks to: Alex Fox, Andrew Kelley, Brandon Wolfe, Dan Franks, Jay Moore, Jarek Steele, Joey Vasques, Justin Cascio, Kim R Lee, Kosse Feral, Logan England, Matt Rice, Matthew York, Nick Sarchet, Raven Kaldera, Rene Hickman, Ricky Levya, Terry Siegrist, Thomas More II, Anat Salomon, Desi del Valle.Donors: Merle and Steve Rosskam, Marilyn and Skip Rosskam, The Indiana Transgender Rights Advocacy Alliance, Emily Walker, Pam and Michale Burger, Nancy Shrier, Lani Lacovelli, Tim Carey, Kim R Lee, John and Bonney Teare.
Siede, Caroline. "Writing For Justice: Diversity in Our Entertainment Matters - Gay Lesbian Bi Trans News Archive - Windy City Times." Writing For Justice: Diversity in Our Entertainment Matters. N.p., 27 May 2015. Web. 5 June 2015.
This page was last edited on 31 January 2023, at 20:32 (UTC).
Transparent is a 2005 documentary film written, directed, and produced by Jules Rosskam. Its title is a play on the words “trans” and “parent” implying the invisibility of transgender parenting in society today. The documentary follows 19 transgender men from 14 different states who have given birth to, and in most cases, gone on to raise, their biological children and the challenges they face while transitioning.
Although most of them were in agreement about the issues discussed, the topic of how they felt during pregnancy was a little different. Some felt that it was the only time they felt right with their bodies and they enjoyed the experience overall, while others felt humiliated and like it was a slap in the face – concrete evidence this wasn't who they really were.
The film is most well known for its viewing at the Paris's International Feminist Festival, and was featured in the September 2006 issue of Curve magazine as one of the Ten Must-See Gender Documentaries, represented as one of the best examples of New Trans Cinema alongside well-known films such as Transamerica, Boys Don't Cry and Soldier's Girl.[1]
Find sources: "Transparent" film – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Transparent follows the lives of 19 transgender men as they recall their encounters giving birth to and raising children while transitioning. For most, they did not view it as a weird concept to explain to their kids, especially at a young age, because none of the politics had to go into their explanation, they could simply state the facts and the children were accepting of that. For example, the common explanation to their children was that they were “born with a girl body but a boy heart.” In addition, they still felt as though they were their child's mother because biologically, they were, they just were no longer a mother figure. However, most of them were still being referred to by their child as “mom”.
Willis, Raquel. "Hollywood, You're Halfway There With Trans Representation." The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 5 June 2015.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Transparent" film – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations.
