Explore																																														Main Page																																	Discuss																																	All Pages																																	Community																																	Interactive Maps																																	Recent Blog Posts
Characters																																														Real Characters																																							Red																															Blue																															Indigo																															Cyan																																																Deities																																							Greek Gods and Goddesses
There is currently no text in this page.You can search for this page title in other pages,search the related logs,or create this page.
Containing sarcasm.a sarcastic quipthe teacher's sarcastic tone1820,Walter Scott,Ivanhoe; a Romance. […], volume (please specify |volume=I, II, or III), Edinburgh:[…]Archibald Constable and Co.; London: Hurst, Robinson, and Co. […], OCLC 230694662:The unhappy Jew eyed their countenances and that of Front-de-Bœuf, in hope of discovering some symptoms of relenting; but that of the Baron exhibited the same cold, half-sullen, half-sarcastic smile which had been the prelude to his cruelty;[…]1850,Thomas Babington Macaulay,Machiavelli‎[1]:The sarcastic bitterness of his conversation disgusted those who were more inclined to accuse his licentiousness than their own degeneracy, and who were unable to conceive the strength of those emotions which are concealed by the jests of the wretched, and by the follies of the wise.1851,Nathaniel Hawthorne,chapter VII, inThe House of the Seven Gables‎[2]:He smiled to himself, and threw a glance of fine sarcastic meaning towards Hepzibah.1891,Thomas Hardy,chapter II, inTess of the d’Urbervilles: A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented […], volume I, London: James R[ipley] Osgood, McIlvaine and Co., […], OCLC 13623666:In men’s clubs such celebrations were, though expiring, less uncommon; but either the natural shyness of the softer sex, or a sarcastic attitude on the part of male relatives, had denuded such women’s clubs as remained (if any other did) or this their glory and consummation.
1850,Thomas Babington Macaulay,Machiavelli‎[1]:The sarcastic bitterness of his conversation disgusted those who were more inclined to accuse his licentiousness than their own degeneracy, and who were unable to conceive the strength of those emotions which are concealed by the jests of the wretched, and by the follies of the wise.
1912,Willa Cather,The Bohemian Girl:Her eyes slanted a little... and were sometimes full of fiery determination and sometimes dull and opaque. Her expression was never altogether amiable; was often, indeed, distinctly sullen, or, when she was animated, sarcastic.
He smiled to himself, and threw a glance of fine sarcastic meaning towards Hepzibah.
The unhappy Jew eyed their countenances and that of Front-de-Bœuf, in hope of discovering some symptoms of relenting; but that of the Baron exhibited the same cold, half-sullen, half-sarcastic smile which had been the prelude to his cruelty;[…]
1891,Thomas Hardy,chapter II, inTess of the d’Urbervilles: A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented […], volume I, London: James R[ipley] Osgood, McIlvaine and Co., […], OCLC 13623666:In men’s clubs such celebrations were, though expiring, less uncommon; but either the natural shyness of the softer sex, or a sarcastic attitude on the part of male relatives, had denuded such women’s clubs as remained (if any other did) or this their glory and consummation.
1820,Walter Scott,Ivanhoe; a Romance. […], volume (please specify |volume=I, II, or III), Edinburgh:[…]Archibald Constable and Co.; London: Hurst, Robinson, and Co. […], OCLC 230694662:
1820,Walter Scott,Ivanhoe; a Romance. […], volume (please specify |volume=I, II, or III), Edinburgh:[…]Archibald Constable and Co.; London: Hurst, Robinson, and Co. […], OCLC 230694662:The unhappy Jew eyed their countenances and that of Front-de-Bœuf, in hope of discovering some symptoms of relenting; but that of the Baron exhibited the same cold, half-sullen, half-sarcastic smile which had been the prelude to his cruelty;[…]
(of a person) Having the personality trait of expressing sarcasm.1912,Willa Cather,The Bohemian Girl:Her eyes slanted a little... and were sometimes full of fiery determination and sometimes dull and opaque. Her expression was never altogether amiable; was often, indeed, distinctly sullen, or, when she was animated, sarcastic.
2 Romanian2.1 Etymology2.2 Pronunciation2.3 Adjective2.3.1 Declension2.3.2 Synonyms2.4 Adverb2.5 Related terms
This page was last edited on 16 January 2023, at 22:02.
1891,Thomas Hardy,chapter II, inTess of the d’Urbervilles: A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented […], volume I, London: James R[ipley] Osgood, McIlvaine and Co., […], OCLC 13623666:
Her eyes slanted a little... and were sometimes full of fiery determination and sometimes dull and opaque. Her expression was never altogether amiable; was often, indeed, distinctly sullen, or, when she was animated, sarcastic.
1 English1.1 Alternative forms1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Adjective1.3.1 Synonyms1.3.2 Derived terms1.3.3 Translations1.4 See also1.5 References
1851,Nathaniel Hawthorne,chapter VII, inThe House of the Seven Gables‎[2]:He smiled to himself, and threw a glance of fine sarcastic meaning towards Hepzibah.
The sarcastic bitterness of his conversation disgusted those who were more inclined to accuse his licentiousness than their own degeneracy, and who were unable to conceive the strength of those emotions which are concealed by the jests of the wretched, and by the follies of the wise.
Tess of the d’Urbervilles: A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented […]
"sarcastic" in Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary (Cambridge University Press, 2007)
In men’s clubs such celebrations were, though expiring, less uncommon; but either the natural shyness of the softer sex, or a sarcastic attitude on the part of male relatives, had denuded such women’s clubs as remained (if any other did) or this their glory and consummation.
sarcastic m or n (feminine singular sarcastică, masculine plural sarcastici, feminine and neuter plural sarcastice)
This page was last edited on 25 February 2023, at 10:19.
1897 December (indicated as 1898),Winston Churchill,chapter V, inThe Celebrity: An Episode, New York, N.Y.: The Macmillan Company; London: Macmillan & Co., Ltd., OCLC 222716698:Although the Celebrity was almost impervious to sarcasm, he was now beginning to exhibit visible signs of uneasiness, the consciousness dawning upon him that his eccentricity was not receiving the ovation it merited.
Hindi: ताना (hi) m (tānā), व्यंग-कथ m (vyaṅg-kath), व्यंग (hi) m (vyaṅg)
1 English1.1 Etymology1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Noun1.3.1 Usage notes1.3.2 Synonyms1.3.3 Derived terms1.3.4 Translations1.3.5 See also1.4 Further reading
1.3 Noun1.3.1 Usage notes1.3.2 Synonyms1.3.3 Derived terms1.3.4 Translations1.3.5 See also
sarcasm in The Century Dictionary, New York, N.Y.: The Century Co., 1911
1897 December (indicated as 1898),Winston Churchill,chapter V, inThe Celebrity: An Episode, New York, N.Y.: The Macmillan Company; London: Macmillan & Co., Ltd., OCLC 222716698:
Although the Celebrity was almost impervious to sarcasm, he was now beginning to exhibit visible signs of uneasiness, the consciousness dawning upon him that his eccentricity was not receiving the ovation it merited.
sarcasm in Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, G. & C. Merriam, 1913
Polish: sarkazm (pl), kpina (pl) f, szyderstwo (pl) n, drwina (pl) f
Thai: การแดกดัน (th) (gaan-dɛ̀ɛk-dan), การประชด (th) (gaan-bprà-chót), การประชดประชัน (th) (gaan-bprà-chót-bprà-chan), การพูดถากถาง (gaan-pûut-tàak-tǎang), การพูดเสียดสี (gaan-pûut-sìiat-sǐi), การพูดเหน็บแนม (gaan-pûut-nèp-nɛɛm)
From Late Latin sarcasmus, from Ancient Greek σαρκασμός (sarkasmós, “a sneer”), from σαρκάζω (sarkázō, “I gnash the teeth (in anger)”, literally “I strip off the flesh”), from σάρξ (sárx, “flesh”).
(uncountable) Use of acerbic language to mock or convey contempt, often using irony and (in speech) often marked by overemphasis and a sneering tone of voice.1897 December (indicated as 1898),Winston Churchill,chapter V, inThe Celebrity: An Episode, New York, N.Y.: The Macmillan Company; London: Macmillan & Co., Ltd., OCLC 222716698:Although the Celebrity was almost impervious to sarcasm, he was now beginning to exhibit visible signs of uneasiness, the consciousness dawning upon him that his eccentricity was not receiving the ovation it merited.
Russian: сарка́зм (ru) m (sarkázm), е́дкость (ru) f (jédkostʹ), язви́тельность (ru) f (jazvítelʹnostʹ), ёрничество n (jórničestvo)
