Alternatively, you can visit the Main Page or read more information about this type of error.
We could not find the above page on our servers.
German Visual DictionaryA photo guide to everyday words and phrases in German, arranged by topic and including information on culture and customs. Free sample content available!Read more
Join the Collins communityAll the latest wordy news, linguistic insights, offers and competitions every month.Read more
Example sentences from real language to show how the word is used
Learning German: Apologizing and attracting someone’s attentionMost of us know when we have to say sorry, but when we’re not speaking our own language, it’s important to know how to do it. Here are some hints to get you started in German!Read more
Collins Complete and Unabridged German DictionaryThe perfect dictionary for advanced learners of GermanRead more
Learn German GrammarAll you need to know about German grammar and verbs. Visit our online resource.October 22, 2020Read more
Understanding German verb tensesIn this short article, we explain and provide some examples of the most common German tenses you'll come across.Read more
Unlock German with the Paul Noble methodThe Paul Noble Method: no books, no rote memorization, no chance of failure. Start with the Complete German Beginner's course, then follow up with Next Steps German.Read more
Feel free to download the following meditations for your personal use. They are intended to guide you through the first phase of mindful self-compassion training. The meditations are primarily instructional in nature and briefer than most meditation sessions. Please use the downloads until you understand the practices and can practice on your own.
For questions about MSC programs or MSC Teacher Training,please send your inquiry directly the Center for Mindful Self-Compassion.
Dr. Germer maintains a small, online, private practice in Cambridge, Massachusetts specializing in mindfulness and compassion-based psychotherapy.
5-Day In-Person MSC Intensive with Kristin Neff in Sedona AZ
Self-Compassion for Shame 8-Week Course with Chris Germer April 2023
Domains	Mindful Self-Compassion	Mindfulness and Compassion in Psychotherapy	Therapy Practice	Publications
Developed by Christopher K. Germer, PhD, leader in the integration of mindfulness and psychotherapy, and Kristin Neff, PhD, pioneering researcher in the field of self-compassion.MSC combines the skills of mindfulness and self-compassion, providing a powerful tool for emotional resilience.
The Mindful Self-Compassion Workbook: A Proven Way to Accept Yourself, Build Inner Strength, and Thrive
Mindfulness and compassion are a powerful combination that allow us to live our lives more fully and happily.
This science-based workbook offers a step-by-step approach to breaking free of harsh self-judgments and impossible standards in order to cultivate emotional well-being.
This 8-week MSC course contains the same content and has the same learning objectives as the in-person course, however we offer it online to increase access to those who live in areas where an in-person MSC is not offered. Learn more about LOMSC.
MSC is offered once a week for eight week and includes a half-day silent retreat. Find a course in your area.
This workshop is an in-depth opportunity for people to immerse themselves in some of the key practices and exercises of the full 8-week program in an intensive 2-day format. Find a Workshop.
MSC combines the skills of mindfulness and self-compassion to enhance our capacity for emotional wellbeing.
Explore, learn, and practice Mindful Self-Compassion in community. This is the only in-person full MSC course that Chris & Kristin will teach together in 2023! Register by Jan 12, 2023 and save 35%!
This 6-day, residential program is facilitated by a team of senior MSC teachers. Half of the training is a condensed, experiential review of the MSC program, integrating short talks, meditation, group exercises, discussion, and periods of silence. The other half of the program focuses on how to teach the core themes and skills of each session in simulated, guided, small groups. Participants will be provided with the essential materials to teach the 8-week form of MSC. Find a Teacher Training.
The Mindful Path to Self-Compassion: Freeing Yourself from Destructive Thoughts and Emotions
Chris spends most of his time lecturing and leading workshops around the world on mindfulness and self-compassion.  He is also the author of The Mindful Path to Self-Compassion; he co-edited two influential volumes on therapy, Mindfulness and Psychotherapy, and Wisdom and Compassion in Psychotherapy. Dr. Germer maintains a small, online, private practice in Cambridge, Massachusetts specializing in mindfulness and compassion-based psychotherapy.
Learn how to be kind to yourself when you need it the most.
