This page was last edited on 28 December 2019, at 17:41 (UTC).
"Hateful", a song by The Clash from London Calling, 1979
In our FAQ, we at Wikiwand outline all the key bullet points that might interest you - why we built Wikiwand, how do we make money, how can you contributw and many more. you were looking for one of these?
Like you, we're huge Wikipedia fans! In fact, who isn't? Wikipedia is the greatest curator of human knowledge, allowing people all around the world to freely access 35 million articles in 288 languages...
Suggest a featureWe always love to hear your feedack!We built Wikiwand for you and we’ll keep listening to our users wishes, ideas and suggestions.Do share!Share your feedback
We always love to hear your feedack!We built Wikiwand for you and we’ll keep listening to our users wishes, ideas and suggestions.Do share!
Think there’s a missing article on Wikipedia? Go right ahead and add one!This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices.
About WikiwandLike you, we're huge Wikipedia fans! In fact, who isn't? Wikipedia is the greatest curator of human knowledge, allowing people all around the world to freely access 35 million articles in 288 languages...Learn more about Wikiwand
Add an article to WikipediaThink there’s a missing article on Wikipedia? Go right ahead and add one!This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices. Add an article on Wikipedia
Read our FAQIn our FAQ, we at Wikiwand outline all the key bullet points that might interest you - why we built Wikiwand, how do we make money, how can you contributw and many more. you were looking for one of these?Read Wikiwand’s FAQ
Explore Wikidata by looking at a featured showcase item for author Douglas Adams (Q42).
Learn how you can retrieve and use data from Wikidata.
2022-12-28: Lexeme L800000, for the Nynorsk (Q25164) word 'fotballturnering', meaning 'football tournament', is created.
Talk and ask questions on the Project chat, Telegram groups, or the live IRC chatconnect.
2022-11-09: The Wikidata development team talk about what they've been working on in the office hours at 17:00 UTC on Telegram.
2022-12-31: Lexeme L900000, for the Bokmål (Q25167) word 'urolog', meaning 'urologist', is created.
Work with other volunteers on a subject that interests you: join a WikiProject.
Check out Wikidata:Tools for some of our best tools and gadgets for using and exploring Wikidata.
As the world combats the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,Wikidata has been extremely useful in collecting and modelling useful information related to COVID-19, from relevant research articles and clinical trials, to epidemiological statistics of various regions, to lexemes for words and phrases commonly associated with the pandemic, and much more. A lot of work from WikiProject COVID-19 goes into creating and maintaining these items, bolstering Wikidata's role as a helpful open resource in the pandemic.
This page was last edited on 22 January 2023, at 14:51.
the free knowledge base with 102,150,210 data items that anyone can edit.
Wikidata acts as central storage for the structured data of its Wikimedia sister projects including Wikipedia, Wikivoyage, Wiktionary, Wikisource, and others.
Wikipedia – Encyclopedia    Wiktionary – Dictionary and thesaurus    Wikibooks – Textbooks, manuals, and cookbooks    Wikinews – News    Wikiquote – Collection of quotations    Wikisource – Library    Wikiversity – Learning resources    Wikivoyage – Travel guides    Wikispecies – Directory of species    Wikimedia Commons – Media repository    Incubator – New language versions    Meta-Wiki – Wikimedia project coordination    MediaWiki – Software documentation
2023-01-26: Lexeme L1000000, for the Nynorsk (Q25164) word 'etymologi', meaning 'etymology', is created.
