Government has slowly but positively moved from an active course of following plans and policies to the easier and more expedient course of the counterpuncher.
1861,John Stuart Mill,Utilitarianism:But the Expedient, in the sense in which it is opposed to the Right, generally means that which is expedient for the particular interest of the agent himself; as when a minister sacrifices the interests of his country to keep himself in place.
2013,Douglas B. Klusmeyer, Demetrios G. Papademetriou,Immigration Policy in the Federal Republic of Germany‎[3]:
c. 1596,William Shakespeare,“The Life and Death of King Iohn”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act II, scene i], lines 57–61:the adverse winds / Whose leisure I have stay'd, have given him time / To land his legions all as soon as I; / His marches are expedient to this town / His forces strong, his soldiers confident.
The History of England from the Accession of James II
From Middle English expedient, from Old French expedient, from Latin expediens (stem expedient-), present participle of expedire (“to bring forward, to dispatch, to expedite; impers. to be profitable, serviceable, advantageous, expedient”), from ex (“out”) + pēs (“foot, hoof”).
A method or means for achieving a particular result, especially when direct or efficient; a resource.1906, O. Henry, The Green Door:He would never let her know that he was aware of the strange expedient to which she had been driven by her great distress.2009, Diarmaid MacCulloch, A History of Christianity, Penguin 2010, page 709:Depressingly, [...] the expedient of importing African slaves was in part meant to protect the native American population from exploitation.
1849,Thomas Babington Macaulay,chapter III, inThe History of England from the Accession of James II, volume I, London: Longman, Brown, Green, and Longmans, OCLC 1069526323, page 389:[T]he judges were unanimously of opinion that [...] by the common law of England, no man, not authorised by the crown, had a right to publish political news. While the Whig party was still formidable, the government thought it expedient occasionally to connive at the violation of this rule.
2013,Douglas B. Klusmeyer, Demetrios G. Papademetriou,Immigration Policy in the Federal Republic of Germany‎[3]:Its policies toward foreign lab or across these eras reflect these sharp differences in context, but also reflect a common pattern to treat the recruitment and deployment of foreign nationals as an expedient measure to serve immediate economic objectives
German: vorteilhaft (de), nützlich (de), günstig (de), angenehm (de), praktisch (de), bequem (de), zweckmäßig (de), zweckdienlich (de),
“expedient” in Diccionari de la llengua catalana, segona edició, Institut d’Estudis Catalans.
(obsolete) Expeditious, quick, rapid.c. 1596,William Shakespeare,“The Life and Death of King Iohn”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act II, scene i], lines 57–61:the adverse winds / Whose leisure I have stay'd, have given him time / To land his legions all as soon as I; / His marches are expedient to this town / His forces strong, his soldiers confident.
Governed by self-interest, often short-term self-interest.1861,John Stuart Mill,Utilitarianism:But the Expedient, in the sense in which it is opposed to the Right, generally means that which is expedient for the particular interest of the agent himself; as when a minister sacrifices the interests of his country to keep himself in place.
1 English1.1 Etymology1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Adjective1.3.1 Synonyms1.3.2 Related terms1.3.3 Translations1.4 Noun1.4.1 Translations1.5 Further reading
c. 1596,William Shakespeare,“The Life and Death of King Iohn”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act II, scene i], lines 57–61:
a. 1863, Richard Whately, Thoughts and ApophthegmsNothing but the right can ever be the expedient, since that can never be true expediency which would sacrifice a greater good to a less.
1611,The Holy Bible, […] (King James Version), London:[…]Robert Barker, […], OCLC 964384981, John 16:7:
German: Ausflucht (de) f, Ausweg (de) m, Hilfsmittel (de) n, Mittel (de) f (zum Zweck), Tunlichkeit f, Behelf (de) m, Notbehelf (de) m, Nothilfe (de) f, Notlösung (de) f
This page was last edited on 14 February 2023, at 01:21.
German: angebracht (de), opportun (de), hilfreich (de), passend (de), zielführend (de), zweckmäßig (de), zweckdienlich (de), ratsam (de), brauchbar (de), schicklich (de), geeignet (de), günstig (de), naheliegend (de), tunlich (de), angemessen (de),
Its policies toward foreign lab or across these eras reflect these sharp differences in context, but also reflect a common pattern to treat the recruitment and deployment of foreign nationals as an expedient measure to serve immediate economic objectives
Suitable to effect some desired end or the purpose intended.Most people, faced with a decision, will choose the most expedient option.1611,The Holy Bible, […] (King James Version), London:[…]Robert Barker, […], OCLC 964384981, John 16:7:Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the Comforter willnot come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you.a. 1863, Richard Whately, Thoughts and ApophthegmsNothing but the right can ever be the expedient, since that can never be true expediency which would sacrifice a greater good to a less.
1611,The Holy Bible, […] (King James Version), London:[…]Robert Barker, […], OCLC 964384981, John 16:7:Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the Comforter willnot come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you.
expedient in The Century Dictionary, New York, N.Y.: The Century Co., 1911
But the Expedient, in the sense in which it is opposed to the Right, generally means that which is expedient for the particular interest of the agent himself; as when a minister sacrifices the interests of his country to keep himself in place.
[T]he judges were unanimously of opinion that [...] by the common law of England, no man, not authorised by the crown, had a right to publish political news. While the Whig party was still formidable, the government thought it expedient occasionally to connive at the violation of this rule.
2011,L. Fletcher Prouty, Jesse Ventura,The Secret Team: The CIA and Its Allies in Control of the United States and the World‎[2]:Government has slowly but positively moved from an active course of following plans and policies to the easier and more expedient course of the counterpuncher.
expedient in Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, G. & C. Merriam, 1913
to bring forward, to dispatch, to expedite; impers. to be profitable, serviceable, advantageous, expedient
That's because the debate pits textbook economics — which argues that bailouts beget bad behavior begets more bailouts — against practical politics. And politics, or the taking of expedient steps to keep people happy, will almost always win.
Bulgarian: начин (bg) m (način), способ (bg) m (sposob), средство (bg) n (sredstvo)
Affording short-term benefit, often at the expense of the long-term.1849,Thomas Babington Macaulay,chapter III, inThe History of England from the Accession of James II, volume I, London: Longman, Brown, Green, and Longmans, OCLC 1069526323, page 389:[T]he judges were unanimously of opinion that [...] by the common law of England, no man, not authorised by the crown, had a right to publish political news. While the Whig party was still formidable, the government thought it expedient occasionally to connive at the violation of this rule.2009,CQ Weekly‎[1], volume 67, number 31-36, page 2190:That's because the debate pits textbook economics — which argues that bailouts beget bad behavior begets more bailouts — against practical politics. And politics, or the taking of expedient steps to keep people happy, will almost always win.2011,L. Fletcher Prouty, Jesse Ventura,The Secret Team: The CIA and Its Allies in Control of the United States and the World‎[2]:Government has slowly but positively moved from an active course of following plans and policies to the easier and more expedient course of the counterpuncher.2013,Douglas B. Klusmeyer, Demetrios G. Papademetriou,Immigration Policy in the Federal Republic of Germany‎[3]:Its policies toward foreign lab or across these eras reflect these sharp differences in context, but also reflect a common pattern to treat the recruitment and deployment of foreign nationals as an expedient measure to serve immediate economic objectives
1849,Thomas Babington Macaulay,chapter III, inThe History of England from the Accession of James II, volume I, London: Longman, Brown, Green, and Longmans, OCLC 1069526323, page 389:
the adverse winds / Whose leisure I have stay'd, have given him time / To land his legions all as soon as I; / His marches are expedient to this town / His forces strong, his soldiers confident.
Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the Comforter willnot come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you.
2009, Diarmaid MacCulloch, A History of Christianity, Penguin 2010, page 709:Depressingly, [...] the expedient of importing African slaves was in part meant to protect the native American population from exploitation.
1906, O. Henry, The Green Door:He would never let her know that he was aware of the strange expedient to which she had been driven by her great distress.
2011,L. Fletcher Prouty, Jesse Ventura,The Secret Team: The CIA and Its Allies in Control of the United States and the World‎[2]:
2009,CQ Weekly‎[1], volume 67, number 31-36, page 2190:That's because the debate pits textbook economics — which argues that bailouts beget bad behavior begets more bailouts — against practical politics. And politics, or the taking of expedient steps to keep people happy, will almost always win.


