1976 June 7,Nik Cohn,“Inside the Tribal Rites of the New Saturday Night”, inNew York Magazine‎[1]:
1976 June 7,Nik Cohn,“Inside the Tribal Rites of the New Saturday Night”, inNew York Magazine‎[1]:He must also be fluent in obscenity, offhand in sex. Most important of all, he must play tough.
1 English1.1 Alternative forms1.2 Etymology1.3 Pronunciation1.4 Adjective1.4.1 Synonyms1.4.2 Translations1.4.3 See also1.5 Adverb1.6 Anagrams
Careless; without sufficient thought or consideration.He doesn't realise how hurtful his offhand remarks can be.
1854, William Makepeace Thackeray, The Rose and the Ring:We will have no more of this shilly-shallying! Call the Archbishop, and let the Prince and Princess be married offhand!
Russian: ре́зкий (ru) (rézkij), гру́бый (ru) (grúbyj), недружелю́бный (ru) (nedruželjúbnyj)
He must also be fluent in obscenity, offhand in sex. Most important of all, he must play tough.
Right away, immediately, without thinking about it.Offhand, I'd guess that that's a yellow-bellied sapsucker.1854, William Makepeace Thackeray, The Rose and the Ring:We will have no more of this shilly-shallying! Call the Archbishop, and let the Prince and Princess be married offhand!
Without planning or thinking ahead.She gave an offhand speech.1976 June 7,Nik Cohn,“Inside the Tribal Rites of the New Saturday Night”, inNew York Magazine‎[1]:He must also be fluent in obscenity, offhand in sex. Most important of all, he must play tough.
This page was last edited on 3 March 2023, at 18:44.
From Middle English *ofhande, *ofhende, from Old English ofhende (“absent, lost”), ultimately from Proto-Germanic *abahandijaz. Equivalent to off- +‎ hand. Cognate with Icelandic afhendur. Compare onhand.
When joining the Mage class, the Mage player will be able to put spell Tomes in their offhand slot. Spell tomes allow players to gain additional Magical attack and other stats while equipped in the offhand. Tomes will appear strapped to the left side of the player's waist. Mages cannot swap between their primary hand and offhand, as Tomes can only be placed in the Offhand slot.
Drops																																							Elder Beard																															Mushroom Spore																															Red Mushroom																															Crabby Claw																															Spider Fang																															Goblin Necklace																															Spider Leg
Enemies																																							Elder Shroom																															Baby Shroom																															Shroom																															Crabby																															Spider																															Goblin																															Scarecrow
Content																																														Locations																																							Mushroom Forest																															Mushroom Grotto																															The Clearing																															Farmlands																															Seaside Path																															Crabby Den																															Scallop Shores																																																Classes																																							Warrior																															Hunter																															Mage																																																NPCs																																							Lil Pump																															Fisherman																															Vincent																															Beggar																															NPCs																															Brutus, the City Guard																															Barber Streisand																																																Enemies																																							Elder Shroom																															Baby Shroom																															Shroom																															Crabby																															Spider																															Goblin																															Scarecrow																																																Consumables																																							Big Red Potion																															Red Potion																															Strength Potion																															Vitality Potion																															Dexterity Potion																															Muffin																															Mighty Sub																																																Shops
When joining the Knight subclass, the Warrior player will gain the ability to equip and place shields in their offhand slot. Shields allow them to either receive less damage or have higher block chance, and also use the Shield Charge ability. They will also gain a new sprinting animation just like Berserkers do. Charging with their shields in front of them into battle. Knights cannot swap between their primary hand and offhand, as Shields can only be placed in the Offhand slot.
When clicking the offhand option as a Hunter, you will switch from your dagger to your bow, allowing you to switch between melee and ranged damage. If your dagger/bow has a different +attack power than the other, than your attack will be increased/decreased. Also, if you have an Adventurer weapon (such as a stick) in your main slot/offhand, then attempting to switch won't work at all.
However, after the fishing rods are changed to have no weapon attack, they're now useless outside of fishing.
Explore																																														Main Page																																	Discuss																																	All Pages																																	Community																																	Interactive Maps																																	Recent Blog Posts
Headgears																																							Mushroom Hat																															Dusty Hat																															Rusty Helmet																															Bronze Helmet																															Spider Queen's Crown																															Magus Hat																															Apprentice Hat
Active Staff																																							Syropalia3.0 (Bureaucrat)																															CausalityOrigin (Admin)																															Marsium (Admin)																															AGiiftForYou (Mod)																															Jake10002 (Content Mod)																															AltraeKaelar (Thread Mod)
Boots																																							Gladiator Boots																															Ravager Boots																															Iron Boots																															Bandit Boots																															Yeti Fur Boots																															Steel Boots																															Skirmisher Boots
others																																														Marketplace																																	Mechanics																																							Keybinds																															Levels																															Parties																															Bounty Book																															Giant Enemies																															Monster Book																															Offhand																																																Drops																																							Elder Beard																															Mushroom Spore																															Red Mushroom																															Crabby Claw																															Spider Fang																															Goblin Necklace																															Spider Leg																																																Upcoming Content																																	Scrapped Content																																	Bugs and Glitches																																	Guides																																							Beginner Guide																															Intermediate Guide																															Advanced Guide																															Master Guide
Locations																																							Mushroom Forest																															Mushroom Grotto																															The Clearing																															Farmlands																															Seaside Path																															Crabby Den																															Scallop Shores
Equipments																																														Weapons																																							Pitchfork																															Oak Polearm																															Rake																															Rusty Sword																															Bronze Sword																															Rusty Dagger																															Bronze Mace																																																Headgears																																							Mushroom Hat																															Dusty Hat																															Rusty Helmet																															Bronze Helmet																															Spider Queen's Crown																															Magus Hat																															Apprentice Hat																																																Armors																																							Wooden Shoulder Pads																															City Guard Pads																															Rusty Armor																															Bronze Armor																															Hunter Vest																															Acolyte Robes																															Magus Robes																																																Boots																																							Gladiator Boots																															Ravager Boots																															Iron Boots																															Bandit Boots																															Yeti Fur Boots																															Steel Boots																															Skirmisher Boots																																																Pets																																							Baby Yeti Pet																															Baby Shroom Pet																															Ugly Spiderling Pet																															Gorgog Mech Pet																															Gorgog Guardian Pet																															Cool Baby Shroom Pet																															Tundra Wolf Pet
Consumables																																							Big Red Potion																															Red Potion																															Strength Potion																															Vitality Potion																															Dexterity Potion																															Muffin																															Mighty Sub
Weapons																																							Pitchfork																															Oak Polearm																															Rake																															Rusty Sword																															Bronze Sword																															Rusty Dagger																															Bronze Mace
Pets																																							Baby Yeti Pet																															Baby Shroom Pet																															Ugly Spiderling Pet																															Gorgog Mech Pet																															Gorgog Guardian Pet																															Cool Baby Shroom Pet																															Tundra Wolf Pet
The Offhand slot in Vesteria is an Inventory slot Mechanic that is exclusive for Hunters, Mages, and Warriors Subclasses (Berserker and Knight). The default hotkey is "`" (button under the escape key), but you might want to change it to something more practical, like "R" or "Q".
During the beta stages of the game, there was a bug that allowed players to equip fishing rods to their offhand slot. This bug has been patched, but those who left their fishing rods in their offhand slot still have the item there. This was especially useful for mages since they got to have a free damage boost when they would normally have nothing.However, after the fishing rods are changed to have no weapon attack, they're now useless outside of fishing.
When wearing a Jester Cap, Jester Vest, or Jester Boots, the player's offhand is disabled.
Mechanics																																							Keybinds																															Levels																															Parties																															Bounty Book																															Giant Enemies																															Monster Book																															Offhand
Armors																																							Wooden Shoulder Pads																															City Guard Pads																															Rusty Armor																															Bronze Armor																															Hunter Vest																															Acolyte Robes																															Magus Robes
NPCs																																							Lil Pump																															Fisherman																															Vincent																															Beggar																															NPCs																															Brutus, the City Guard																															Barber Streisand
When joining the Berserker subclass, the Warrior player will be able to put another sword/Adventurer weapon in theiroffhand slot. It is worth noting that, unlike Hunters, they have true dual wielding. What this means is that both swords will affect your attack power. It is also possible to put fishing rods into their main hand, but you will not trigger the dual wielding and simply just hold the fishing rod. Berserkers will also gain a unique standing position, and have a new walking animation and a sprinting animation that looks awfully similar to the Naruto Run.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Companion weapon" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
This page was last edited on 20 December 2022, at 12:42 (UTC).
The term companion weapon is used in historical European martial arts to refer to an item used in conjunction with the larger weapon in the non-sword hand while fencing with a rapier or sword. The popular companion weapon forms include:
Find sources: "Companion weapon" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
In most cases the off-hand weapon is used to deflect or parry.
