
Robert Dunn, Every Living Thing: Man's Obsessive Quest to Catalogue Life, from Nanobacteria to New Monkeys (2009) Introduction.
Softmindedness often invades religion. … Softminded persons have revised the Beautitudes to read "Blessed are the pure in ignorance: for they shall see God." This has led to a widespread belief that there is a conflict between science and religion. But this is not true. There may be a conflict between softminded religionists and toughminded scientists, but not between science and religion. … Science investigates; religion interprets. Science gives man knowledge which is power; religion gives man wisdom which is control. Science deals mainly with facts; religion deals mainly with values. The two are not rivals. They are complementary.Martin Luther King, Jr., in Strength to Love (1963), Ch. 1 : A tough mind and a tender heart
It was a childish ignorance,But now 'tis little joyTo know I'm further off from heavenThan when I was a boy.Thomas Hood, I Remember, I Remember.
Death presses heavily on that man, who, being but too well known to others, dies in ignorance of himself.
Man is arrogant in proportion to his ignorance.Edward Bulwer-Lytton, Zanoni (1842), Book IV, Ch. 4
To be ignorant of one's own ignorance is to be in an unprogressive, uninspired state of existence.David O. McKay, Pathways To Happiness, (1957), pp. 351-352.
Rousseau, as paraphrased by Tolstoy in A Calendar of Wisdom, P. Sekirin, trans. (1997).
The days of deadly ignorance will end, and they will end soon.Donald Trump, speech after the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting (transcript)
Ignorance is preferable to error, and he is less remote from the truth who believes nothing than he who believes what is wrong.Thomas Jefferson, Notes on the State of Virginia (1781-1785), Query 6.
The living man who does not learn, is dark, dark, like one walking in the night.Ming-hsin pao-chien ("Precious Mirror for Enlightening the Heart") (compiled c. 1393 by Fan Li-pen). Translation for Chinese Repository by Dr. William Milne.
It's always possible to wake someone from sleep, but no amount of noise will wake someone who is pretending to be asleep.Jonathan Safran Foer, Eating Animals (2009)
For "ignorance is the mother of devotion," as all the world knows.Robert Burton, The Anatomy of Melancholy (1621), Part III, Section IV. Memb. 1. Subsect. 2. Phrase used by Dr. Cole, Disputation with the Papists at Westminster, March 31, 1559. Quoted from Cole by Bishop Jewel, Works, Volume III, Part II, p. 1202. Quoted as a "Popish maxim" by Thomas Vincent, Explicatory Catechism, Epistle to the Reader (c. 1622). Said by Jeremy Taylor, To a person newly converted to the Church of England (1657). Same found in New Custome. I. I. A Morality printed 1573. (True devotion).
Rien n'est si dangereux qu'un ignorant ami:Mieux vaudrait un sage ennemi.Nothing is so dangerous as an ignorant friend; a wise enemy is worth more.Jean de La Fontaine, Fables, VIII. 10.
Lucien Laurat, Marxism and Democracy, 1940, published by the Left Book Club, Victor Gollancz Ltd, London; translated by Edward Fitzgerald. Text online at the Marxists Internet Archive.
Nothing is so dangerous as an ignorant friend; a wise enemy is worth more.
Ignorance is death.A closed mind is a catafalque.Anna Quindlen, How Reading Changed My Life, (New York: Ballantine Books, 1998), p. 69.
To each his suff’rings; all are men,Condemn’d alike to groan,—The tender for another’s pain,Th’ unfeeling for his own.Yet ah! why should they know their fate,Since sorrow never comes too late,And happiness too swiftly flies?Thought would destroy their paradise.No more; where ignorance is bliss,’T is folly to be wise.Thomas Gray, repr. In Poetical Works, ed. J. Rogers (1953). Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College, stanza 10 (written 1742, published 1747). [1]
Ignorance plays the chief part among men, and the multitude of words; but opportunity will prevail.Diogenes Laërtius, Lives of Eminent Philosophers, "Cleobulus", iv.
VicesAggression • Anger • Apathy • Arrogance • Bigotry • Contempt • Cowardice • Cruelty• Dishonesty • Drunkenness • Egotism • Envy • Evil speaking • Gluttony • Greed • Hatred • Hypocrisy • Idleness • Ignorance • Impatience • Impenitence • Ingratitude • Inhumanity • Intemperance • Jealousy • Laziness • Lust • Malice • Neglect • Obstinacy • Philistinism • Prejudice • Pretension • Pride • Recklessness • Self-righteousness • Selfishness • Superficiality • Tryphé • Unkindness • Usury • Vanity • Worldliness
Friedrich Schlegel, “On Incomprehensibility” (1800), J. Schulte-Sasse, trans., Theory as Practice (1997), p. 146.
Credulity and confidence are the constant companions of ignorance.Bartholomew Parr (1750-1810) "Quacks and Quack Medicines," The London Medical Dictionary (1809)
It is my own peculiarity that I cannot bear ignorance, nor the ignorance of ignoramuses, and even less the ignorance of the informed. Therefore, I decided long ago to converse with the reader on this matter, and to construct before his very eyes—and in his face, if necessary—a different, new reader, one constructed according to my own ideas.Friedrich Schlegel, “On Incomprehensibility” (1800), J. Schulte-Sasse, trans., Theory as Practice (1997), p. 146.
Namque inscitia est,Adversum stimulum calces.It is consummate ignorance to kick against the pricks.Terence, Phormio, I. 2. 27.
Ignorance is the condition of being uninformed or uneducated; i.e., lacking knowledge or information.
Benjamin Disraeli, Sybil: Or, The Two Nations (1845), p. 36.
Often the cock-loft is empty, in those whom nature hath built many stories high.Thomas Fuller, Andronicus, Section VI. Par. 18. 1.
Rex Stout, "The Squirt and the Monkey" (1951), character of Nero Wolfe.
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, On the Perpetuation of Ignorance: System Dependence, System Justification, and the Motivated Avoidance of Sociopolitical Information, by Steven Shepherd and Aaron C. Kay,(February 2012)
Translation and Transformation in Modern Arabic Literature: The Indigenous Assertions of Muḥammad 'Uthmān Jalāl
Ignoramuses are numerous in the palace.Sumerian proverb, Collection VIII at The Electronic Text Corpus of Sumerian Literature, 3rd millennium BCE.
George Orwell, Nineteen Eighty-Four, Ch. 1, slogan of the Party (1949).
Sumerian proverb, Collection VIII at The Electronic Text Corpus of Sumerian Literature, 3rd millennium BCE.
Cesare Pavese, The moon and the bonfire, chapter XXVI, p. 149.
William Paton Mackay, reported in Josiah Hotchkiss Gilbert, Dictionary of Burning Words of Brilliant Writers (1895), p. 337.
Knowledge and truth may be in us without judgment, and judgment also without them; but the confession of ignorance is one of the finest and surest testimonies of judgment that I know.Michel de Montaigne, Essais, Ch. X (1571-1592).
L. Sprague de Camp, The Great Fetish (1978), Chapter 11
It is better to be unborn than untaught: for ignorance is the root of misfortune.Plato.
He said that there was one only good, namely, knowledge; and one only evil, namely, ignorance.Diogenes Laërtius, Lives of Eminent Philosophers, "Socrates", xivVariant: The only good is knowledge and the only evil is ignorance.
A large segment of the American public is sadly deficient in its knowledge of basic business and economic facts of life. The media, which many people say are their primary sources of their business and economic info, do not appear to be making any significant impact on this ignorance.Frank Bennack, Jr., CEO of Hearst Corporation in 1984 (source: No Comment!. p. 59. ISBN 0275928209. ).
Ignorance served no useful purpose; it changed no fact, it offered no shelter.Michelle West, Echoes in Assassin Fantastic (ed. Martin H. Greenberg and Alexander Potter, 2001), p. 267
It has become clear that people turn to their external systems to regulate a number of relational, existential, and epistemic threats... We leveraged this past research to develop a novel explanation for how people’s tendency to trust in their social systems, and outsource their worries and fears to these systems, can lead to the propagation of ignorance in the context of important social issues.Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, On the Perpetuation of Ignorance: System Dependence, System Justification, and the Motivated Avoidance of Sociopolitical Information, by Steven Shepherd and Aaron C. Kay,(February 2012)
There's nothing as safe as ignorance — or as dangerous.Rex Stout, "The Squirt and the Monkey" (1951), character of Nero Wolfe.
Ignorance cannot lead to evil, misconceptions lead to evil. It is not what people do know, it’s what they pretend they do.Rousseau, as paraphrased by Tolstoy in A Calendar of Wisdom, P. Sekirin, trans. (1997).
A man may live long, and die at last in ignorance of many truths, which his mind was capable of knowing, and that with certainty.John Locke, Human Understanding, Book I, Chapter II.
A generation which ignores history has no past — and no future.Robert A. Heinlein, Time Enough for Love (1973).
I am not ashamed to confess that I am ignorant of what I do not know.
Ignorance never settles a question.Benjamin Disraeli, speech, House of Commons (May 14, 1866).
Michelle West, Echoes in Assassin Fantastic (ed. Martin H. Greenberg and Alexander Potter, 2001), p. 267
There is nothing so dangerous as an ignorant and frightened man.L. Sprague de Camp, The Great Fetish (1978), Chapter 11
To be conscious that you are ignorant is a great step to knowledge.Benjamin Disraeli, Sybil: Or, The Two Nations (1845), p. 36.
Ignoratione rerum bonarum et malarum maxime hominum vita vexatur.Through ignorance of what is good and what is bad, the life of men is greatly perplexed.Cicero, De Finibus Bonorum et Malorum, I. 13.
Ignorance is degrading only when found in company with riches. The poor man is restrained by poverty and need: labour occupies his thoughts, and takes the place of knowledge. But rich men who are ignorant live for their lusts only, and are like the beasts of the field, as may be seen every day; and they can also be reproached for not having used wealth and leisure for that which gives them their greatest value.Schopenhauer, “On books and reading,” Religion: a dialogue, and other essays, T.B. Saunders, trans. (1910).
The wise preach to the ignorant when the latter ask them to do so. Through this the ignorant may attain sudden enlightenment, and their mind thereby becomes illuminated. Then they are no longer different from the wise men.Huineng, Platform Sutra, Chapter 2
Madam, thou errest: I say, there is no darkness, but ignorance; in which thou art more puzzled, than the Egyptians in their fog.William Shakespeare, Twelfth Night (c. 1601-02), Act IV, scene 2, line 44.
Sterling W. Sill, The Power of Believing, (1968), p. 29.
Tom Siegfried, A Beautiful Math: John Nash, Game Theory, and the Modern Quest for a Code of Nature (2006) Preface
Ignorance is a kind of insanity in the human animal. People who delight in torturing defenseless children or tiny creatures are in reality insane. The terrible thing is that people who are madmen in private may wear a totally bland and innocent expression in public.Akira Kurosawa 'Something Like an Autobiography (1981)
Tacitus, Agricola, XXX. Quoting Galgacus, the British leader, to his subjects before the battle of the Grampian Hills. Ritter says the sentence may be a "marginal gloss" and brackets it. Anticipated by Thucydides, Speech of Nicias, VI. 11. 4.
There appears to be a discrepancy between the importance/self-relevance of social issues and people’s willingness to engage with and learn about them... Ignorance — as a function of the system justifying tendencies it may activate—may, ironically, breed more ignorance.Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, On the Perpetuation of Ignorance: System Dependence, System Justification, and the Motivated Avoidance of Sociopolitical Information, by Steven Shepherd and Aaron C. Kay,(February 2012)
Malcolm X: The Man and his Times, edited by John Henrik Clarke,Africa World Press(1990)
As God loves me, I know not where I am.
Julian Assange, quoted in "Julian Assange, monk of the online age who thrives on intellectual battle". The Guardian. 2010-08-01. Retrieved on 2010-08-01.
The common curse of mankind,—folly and ignorance.William Shakespeare, Troilus and Cressida, Act ii. Sc. 3. (1602).
Schopenhauer, “On books and reading,” Religion: a dialogue, and other essays, T.B. Saunders, trans. (1910).
This page was last edited on 23 February 2023, at 15:23.
On the Perpetuation of Ignorance: System Dependence, System Justification, and the Motivated Avoidance of Sociopolitical Information,
There are three degrees of comparison: stupido, stupidissimo, and tenore.Pietro Mascagni, in Scott Beach, Musicdotes, (Berkeley, CA: Ten Speed Press, 1977), p. 94.
Ignorance gives one a large range of probabilities.George Eliot, Daniel Deronda (1876), Book II, Chapter XIII.
Arranged alphabetically by author or source:A · B · C · D · E · F · G · H · I · J · K · L · M · N · O · P · Q · R · S · T · U · V · W · X · Y · Z · Hoyt's New Cyclopedia Of Practical Quotations · See also · External links
Through ignorance of what is good and what is bad, the life of men is greatly perplexed.
So long as the mother, Ignorance, lives, it is not safe for Science, the offspring, to divulge the hidden causes of things.Johannes Kepler, Somnium (The Dream) (1620-1630).
Oscar Wilde, The Importance of Being Earnest, Act I, spoken by Lady Bracknell (1895).
Percy Bysshe Shelley, Scenes from the Magico Prodigioso of Calderon, scene 1.
So oft in theologic wars,The disputants, I ween,Rail on in utter ignoranceOf what each other mean,And prate about an ElephantNot one of them has seen!John Godfrey Saxe, "The Blind Men and the Elephant," moral, The Poetical Works of John Godfrey Saxe (1887), p. 112. While Saxe said this was a Hindu fable, the story may be found in The Udna, or The Solemn Utterances of the Buddha, chapter 6, section 4, trans. Dawsonne M. Strong, p. 93–96 (1902).
Ita me dii ament, ast ubi sim nescio.As God loves me, I know not where I am.Terence, Heauton timoroumenos, II. 3. 67.
George Puttenham, The Arte of English Poesie (1589), excerpted and translated in Wayne A. Rebhorn, ed., Renaissance Debates on Rhetoric.
Strange, that ignorance should be our best happiness in this life, and yet be the one we are ever striving to destroy!Letitia Elizabeth Landon, Heath's Book of Beauty, 1833, "The Enchantress"
Men are born ignorant, not stupid; they are made stupid by education.Bertrand Russell, A History of Western Philosophy (1945), Book Three, Part II, Chapter XXI: Currents of Thought in the Nineteenth Century, p. 722.
1994 Berkshire Hathaway Annual Meeting Warren Buffett Charlie Munger Bill Ackman FULL Q&A
Bigotry is the disease of ignorance, of morbid minds; enthusiasm of the free and buoyant. Education & free discussion are the antidotes of both.Thomas Jefferson, letter to John Adams (August 1, 1816).
I do not approve of anything that tampers with natural ignorance. Ignorance is like a delicate exotic fruit; touch it and the bloom is gone. The whole theory of modern education is radically unsound. Fortunately in England, at any rate, education produces no effect whatsoever. If it did, it would prove a serious danger to the upper classes, and probably lead to acts of violence in Grosvenor Square.Oscar Wilde, The Importance of Being Earnest, Act I, spoken by Lady Bracknell (1895).
Mr. Kremlin himself was distinguished for ignorance, for he had only one idea, and that was wrong.Benjamin Disraeli, Sybil: Or, The Two Nations (1845), Book IV, Chapter V.
Letitia Elizabeth Landon, Heath's Book of Beauty, 1833, "The Enchantress"
Don't be in such a hurry to condemn a person because he doesn't do what you do, or think as you think or as fast. There was a time when you didn't know what you know today.Malcolm X quoted in James L. Conyers, Andrew P. Smallwood, Malcolm X: A Historical Reader, Carolina Academic Press, (2008)
Illi mors gravis incubat qui notus nimis omnibus ignotus moritur sibi.Death presses heavily on that man, who, being but too well known to others, dies in ignorance of himself.Seneca the Younger, Thyestes, CCCCI.
"Man," I cried, "how ignorant art thou in thy pride of wisdom!"Mary Shelley, Frankenstein, Ch. 23 (1818).
He that voluntarily continues ignorant is guilty of all the crimes which ignorance produces.Samuel Johnson, reported in Josiah Hotchkiss Gilbert, Dictionary of Burning Words of Brilliant Writers (1895), p. 336.
Frank Bennack, Jr., CEO of Hearst Corporation in 1984 (source: No Comment!. p. 59. ISBN 0275928209. ).
Thomas Jefferson, Letter to Colonel Charles Yancey (6 January 1816) ME 14:384.
Not to know me argues yourselves unknown,The lowest of your throng.John Milton, Paradise Lost (1667; 1674), Book IV, line 830.
Any time you combine ignorance and borrowed money, you can get some pretty interesting consequences.Warren Buffett,(June 20, 2018)"1994 Berkshire Hathaway Annual Meeting Warren Buffett Charlie Munger Bill Ackman FULL Q&A". IDP, YouTube. (quote at 4:26 of 3:20:11)
Anna Quindlen, How Reading Changed My Life, (New York: Ballantine Books, 1998), p. 69.
"Julian Assange, monk of the online age who thrives on intellectual battle"
Es ist nichts schrecklicher als eine thätige Unwissenheit.There is nothing more frightful than an active ignorance.Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Sprüche in Prosa, III.
Samuel Johnson, in reply to the lady who asked why "pastern" was defined in the dictionary as "the knee of the horse". Boswell's Life of Johnson, (1755).
If ignorance is bliss, then knock the smile off my face.Zack de la Rocha, "Settle for Nothing", Rage Against the Machine (album), 1992.
Ignorance is the mother of devotion.Jeremy Taylor, To a Person Newly Converted (1657).
Warren Buffett,(June 20, 2018)"1994 Berkshire Hathaway Annual Meeting Warren Buffett Charlie Munger Bill Ackman FULL Q&A". IDP, YouTube. (quote at 4:26 of 3:20:11)
Blind and naked IgnoranceDelivers brawling judgments, unashamed,On all things all day long.Alfred Tennyson, Idylls of the King, Merlin and Vivien. Line 662. (1859-1885).
Non me pudet fateri nescire quod nesciam.I am not ashamed to confess that I am ignorant of what I do not know.Cicero, Tusc. Quæst. I. 25. 60.
There are, however, some potentates I would kill by any and all means at my disposal. They are Ignorance, Superstition, and Bigotry — the most sinister and tyrannical rulers on earth.Emma Goldman, responding to audience questions during a speech in Detroit (1898); as recounted in Living My Life (1931), p. 207; quoted by Annie Laurie Gaylor in Women Without Superstition, p. 382.
Sophocles, "Ajax", trans. John Moore, in David Grene and Richmond Lattimore, eds., The Complete Greek Tragedies (1959), vol. 2, p. 250. There have been numerous translations of this play by Sophocles, with varying translations of these words, spoken by the character Tecmessa. The translation by George Young, The Dramas of Sophocles, p. 102 (1888) reads, "Men of perverse opinion do not know / The excellence of what is in their hands,/ Till some one dash it from them".
Charles Dickens, Little Dorrit, Ch. 5 - Something Wrong Somewhere (1855-1857).
We live in a golden age of ignorance, and Trump and Brexit are part of that.Robert N. Proctor, as quoted in "The problem with facts", by Tim Harford, in Financial Times Magazine (9 March 2017)
Causarum ignoratio in re nova mirationem facit.In extraordinary events ignorance of their causes produces astonishment.Cicero, De Divinatione, II. 22.
William Shakespeare, Twelfth Night (c. 1601-02), Act IV, scene 2, line 44.
Homine imperito nunquam quidquid injustius,Qui nisi quod ipse facit nihil rectum putat.Nothing can be more unjust than the ignorant man, who thinks that nothing is well done by himself.Terence, Adelphi, I. 2. 18.
Are you of the stiff, the dry,Cursing the not understood;George Meredith The Woods of Westermain, st. 4 (1883).
The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents. We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity, and it was not meant that we should voyage far. The sciences, each straining in its own direction, have hitherto harmed us little; but some day the piecing together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality, and of our frightful position therein, that we shall either go mad from the revelation or flee from the light into the peace and safety of a new dark age.H.P. Lovecraft The Call of Cthulhu (1926)
You have to start with the truth. The truth is the only way that we can get anywhere. Because any decision-making that is based upon lies or ignorance can't lead to a good conclusion.Julian Assange, quoted in "Julian Assange, monk of the online age who thrives on intellectual battle". The Guardian. 2010-08-01. Retrieved on 2010-08-01.
Zack de la Rocha, "Settle for Nothing", Rage Against the Machine (album), 1992.
John Godfrey Saxe, "The Blind Men and the Elephant," moral, The Poetical Works of John Godfrey Saxe (1887), p. 112. While Saxe said this was a Hindu fable, the story may be found in The Udna, or The Solemn Utterances of the Buddha, chapter 6, section 4, trans. Dawsonne M. Strong, p. 93–96 (1902).
If a nation expects to be ignorant and free, in a state of civilization, it expects what never was and never will be.Thomas Jefferson, Letter to Colonel Charles Yancey (6 January 1816) ME 14:384.
Es ist nichts schrecklicher als eine tätige Unwissenheit.Nothing is worse than active ignorance.Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Frederick Ungar, ed., Goethe's World View Presented in His Reflections and Maxims (1963), p. 58–59.
You can see how even the morals of a nation change. Hence, ignorance reacts to the pressure of the atmosphere. One must observe that ignorance clearly affirms the foundations of darkness. One can imagine how easily the undeveloped brain deteriorates when the heart is silent. The morals of the peoples droop like a withered apple tree.Morya, Fiery World Book 1, Agni Yoga (1933)
Ignorant menDon't know what good they hold in their hands untilThey've flung it away.Sophocles, "Ajax", trans. John Moore, in David Grene and Richmond Lattimore, eds., The Complete Greek Tragedies (1959), vol. 2, p. 250. There have been numerous translations of this play by Sophocles, with varying translations of these words, spoken by the character Tecmessa. The translation by George Young, The Dramas of Sophocles, p. 102 (1888) reads, "Men of perverse opinion do not know / The excellence of what is in their hands,/ Till some one dash it from them".
Scientia non habet inimicum nisi ignorantemKnowledge has no enemy except an ignorant manGeorge Puttenham, The Arte of English Poesie (1589), excerpted and translated in Wayne A. Rebhorn, ed., Renaissance Debates on Rhetoric.
The truest characters of ignoranceAre vanity, and pride, and annoyance.Samuel Butler, Hudibras (1663-1664).
Omne ignotum pro magnifico est.Everything unknown is magnified.Tacitus, Agricola, XXX. Quoting Galgacus, the British leader, to his subjects before the battle of the Grampian Hills. Ritter says the sentence may be a "marginal gloss" and brackets it. Anticipated by Thucydides, Speech of Nicias, VI. 11. 4.
Ming-hsin pao-chien ("Precious Mirror for Enlightening the Heart") (compiled c. 1393 by Fan Li-pen). Translation for Chinese Repository by Dr. William Milne.
Emma Goldman, responding to audience questions during a speech in Detroit (1898); as recounted in Living My Life (1931), p. 207; quoted by Annie Laurie Gaylor in Women Without Superstition, p. 382.
Etiam illud quod scies nesciveris;Ne videris quod videris.Know not what you know, and see not what you see.Plautus, Miles Gloriosus, II. 6. 89.
People who don't know any better will always be in the dark because the power lies in the hands of men who take good care that ordinary folk don't understand, in the hands, that is, of the government, of the clerical party, of the capitalists.Cesare Pavese, The moon and the bonfire, chapter XXVI, p. 149.
Not to know is bad; not to strive to know is worse.Andre Norton, Dragon Magic (1972), Chapter 3
Robert Burton, The Anatomy of Melancholy (1621), Part III, Section IV. Memb. 1. Subsect. 2. Phrase used by Dr. Cole, Disputation with the Papists at Westminster, March 31, 1559. Quoted from Cole by Bishop Jewel, Works, Volume III, Part II, p. 1202. Quoted as a "Popish maxim" by Thomas Vincent, Explicatory Catechism, Epistle to the Reader (c. 1622). Said by Jeremy Taylor, To a person newly converted to the Church of England (1657). Same found in New Custome. I. I. A Morality printed 1573. (True devotion).
We recognize that his hate grows out of fear, pride, ignorance, prejudice, and misunderstanding, but in spite of this, we know God's image is ineffably etched in being.Martin Luther King, Jr., Loving Your Enemies (November 17, 1957)
Ignorance gives one a large range of probabilities.George Eliot, Daniel Deronda (1876), Ch. XIII (1876).
Pietro Mascagni, in Scott Beach, Musicdotes, (Berkeley, CA: Ten Speed Press, 1977), p. 94.
Theognis of Megara , Elegies Lines 137-139, as translated by J. Banks, The Works of Hesiod, Callimachus, and Theognis (1856), p. 464
Variant: The only good is knowledge and the only evil is ignorance.
Any wise enemy is better than an ignorant friend.Traditional Arabic proverbQuoted in Carol Bardenstein, Translation and Transformation in Modern Arabic Literature: The Indigenous Assertions of Muḥammad 'Uthmān Jalāl, Otto Harrassowitz Verlag, 2005, p. 66.
Thomas Gray, repr. In Poetical Works, ed. J. Rogers (1953). Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College, stanza 10 (written 1742, published 1747). [1]
Everybody is ignorant only on different subjects.Will Rogers, Paula McSpadden Love, The Will Rogers Book (1972), p. 119. The author was a niece of Will Rogers, and curator of the Will Rogers Memorial in Claremore, Oklahoma.
[G]ame theory has already established itself as an essential tool in the behavioral sciences, where it is widely regarded as a unifying language for investigating human behavior. Game theory's prominence in evolutionary biology builds a natural bridge between the life sciences and the behavioral sciences. And connections have been established between game theory and the two most prominent pillars of physics: statistical mechanics and quantum theory. ...[M]any physicists, neuroscientists, and social scientists... are... pursuing the dream of a quantitative science of human behavior. Game theory is showing signs of... an increasing important role in that endeavor. It's a story of exploration along the shoreline separating the continent of knowledge from an ocean of ignorance... a story worth telling.Tom Siegfried, A Beautiful Math: John Nash, Game Theory, and the Modern Quest for a Code of Nature (2006) Preface
IGNORANCE IS STRENGTHGeorge Orwell, Nineteen Eighty-Four, Ch. 1, slogan of the Party (1949).
Bertrand Russell, A History of Western Philosophy (1945), Book Three, Part II, Chapter XXI: Currents of Thought in the Nineteenth Century, p. 722.
Charles Webster Leadbeater, Some Glimpses of Occultism: Ancient and Modern (1903)
Our No. 1 enemy is ignorance. And I believe that is the No. 1 enemy for everyone — it's not understanding what actually is going on in the world.Julian Assange, quoted inFacebook Nation: Total Information Awareness by Newton Lee, (2014)
From ignorance our comfort flows.The only wretched are the wise.Matthew Prior, To the Hon. Charles Montague (1692).
Samuel Johnson, reported in Josiah Hotchkiss Gilbert, Dictionary of Burning Words of Brilliant Writers (1895), p. 336.
Ignorance seldom vaults into knowledge, but passes into it through an intermediate state of obscurity, even as night into day through twilight.Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Essay XVI.
That there should one Man die ignorant who had capacity for Knowledge, this I call a tragedy.Thomas Carlyle, Sartor Resartus, Bk. III, ch. 4.
Will Rogers, Paula McSpadden Love, The Will Rogers Book (1972), p. 119. The author was a niece of Will Rogers, and curator of the Will Rogers Memorial in Claremore, Oklahoma.
Quod latet ignotum est; ignoti nulla cupido.What is hid is unknown: for what is unknown there is no desire.Ovid, Ars Amatoria, III. 397.
VirtuesAltruism • Asceticism • Beneficence • Benevolence • Bravery • Carefulness • Charity • Cheerfulness • Cleanliness • Common sense • Compassion • Constancy • Courage • Dignity • Diligence • Discretion • Earnestness • Faith • Fidelity • Forethought • Forgiveness • Friendship • Frugality • Gentleness • Goodness • Grace • Gratitude • Holiness • Honesty • Honor • Hope • Hospitality • Humanity • Humility • Integrity • Intelligence • Justice • Kindness • Love • Loyalty • Mercy • Moderation • Modesty • Optimism • Patience • Philanthropy • Piety • Prudence • Punctuality • Poverty • Purity • Self-control • Simplicity • Sincerity • Sobriety • Sympathy • Temperance • Tolerance
Letitia Elizabeth Landon, Ethel Churchill, Vol. 2, Chapter 31, 1837.
O thou monster, Ignorance, how deformed dost thou look!William Shakespeare, Love's Labour's Lost (c. 1595-6), Act IV, scene 2, line 21.
William Shakespeare, Troilus and Cressida, Act ii. Sc. 3. (1602).
James Anthony Froude, Short Studies on Great Subjects (1867–82), Party Politics.
All wisdom is folly that does not accommodate itself to the common ignorance.Michel de Montaigne, Essais, Ch. III (1571-1592).
In Western society... [t]here are no more continents... little left to discover. I am, in part, an ant biologist... and I knew that much of the world of insects remains unknown. ...How ignorant are we? The question of what we know and do not know clung to me. ...In looking into the stories of biological discovery, I... began to find... a collection of scientists, often obsessive, usually brilliant, occasionally half-mad... Those individuals very often see the same things that other scientists see, but they pay more attention... and they focus on them to the point of exhaustion, and at the risk of the ridicule of their peers. ...[W]e are, before these discoveries, always more ignorant than we imagine ourselves to be. ...[W]e are repeatedly willing to imagine we have found most of what is left to discover. Before microbes were discovered, scientists were confident that insects were the smallest organisms. Before life was discovered at the bottom of the ocean, many scientists were confident that nothing lived deeper than three hundred fathoms. Once we made a tree of life that included four kingdoms (animals, plants, fungi, and prokaryotes), we were confident that there would be no more major branches to reveal. ...We are again at a stage when we believe we have found most of what might be found, but we are wrong. ...[W]hole realms of life remain to be found. ...And even before a new realm or kind of life is found, we still have to explore the realms we have already discovered. Most species on Earth are not yet named. Most named species have not yet been studied. When we lived in small communities, hunting and gathering, we knew only the animals and plants around us, particularly those... useful or dangerous. Living on the thin green surface of our small planet in a universe full of stars, we are not so different today. The wild leaps up and more often than not we do not event know its name.Robert Dunn, Every Living Thing: Man's Obsessive Quest to Catalogue Life, from Nanobacteria to New Monkeys (2009) Introduction.
The words of Lord Buddha that "ignorance is the greatest crime because it brings all miseries to humanity" should be, by now, assimilated by the consciousness of people. Until the leaders of the countries possess brilliant intellects and especially a spiritual synthesis, which helps to embrace all the planes of existence, there will be no real progress.Helena Roerich,Letters of Helena Roerich I,(21 October 1931)
What is hid is unknown: for what is unknown there is no desire.
Donald Trump, speech after the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting (transcript)
For your ignorance is the mother of your devotion to me.John Dryden, The Maiden Queen (1667), Act I, scene 2.
Ignorance, far more than idleness, is the mother of all the vices; and how recent has been the admission, that knowledge should be the portion of all? The destinies of the future lie in judicious education; an education that must be universal, to be beneficial.Letitia Elizabeth Landon, Ethel Churchill, Vol. 2, Chapter 31, 1837.
Bartholomew Parr (1750-1810) "Quacks and Quack Medicines," The London Medical Dictionary (1809)
Martin Luther King, Jr., Loving Your Enemies (November 17, 1957)
Ignorance is the parent of fear.Herman Melville, Moby-Dick, Ch. 3 (1851).
There is little hope for us until we become toughminded enough to break loose from the shackles of prejudice, half-truths, and downright ignorance. The shape of the world today does not permit us the luxury of softmindedness.Martin Luther King, Jr., in Strength to Love (1963), Ch. 1 : A tough mind and a tender heart
Be ignorance thy choice, where knowledge leads to woe.James Beattie, The Minstrel (1771), Book II, Stanza 30.
Martin Luther King, Jr., in Strength to Love (1963), Ch. 1 : A tough mind and a tender heart
Ignorance of each other is what has made unity impossible in the past. Therefore we need enlightenment. We need more light about each other. Light creates understanding, understanding creates love, love creates patience, and patience creates unity. Once we have more knowledge (light) about each other, we will stop condemning each other and a United front will be brought about.Malcolm X: The Man and his Times, edited by John Henrik Clarke,Africa World Press(1990)
He declared that he knew nothing, except the fact of his ignorance.Diogenes Laërtius, Lives of Eminent Philosophers, "Socrates", xvi.
But let a man know that there are things to be known, of which he is ignorant, and it is so much carved out of his domain of universal knowledge.Horace Mann, Lectures on Education, Lecture VI.
Quoted in Carol Bardenstein, Translation and Transformation in Modern Arabic Literature: The Indigenous Assertions of Muḥammad 'Uthmān Jalāl, Otto Harrassowitz Verlag, 2005, p. 66.
Ignorantia non est argumentum.Translation: Ignorance is no argument.Baruch Spinoza, Ethica ordine geometrico demonstrata et in quinque parses distincta, Part 1, Addendum; Amsterdam, 1677.Originally used to oppose traditional theological views that everything exists and is determined by divine intervention because no other plausible reason or explanation is seen.
Ignorance is the dominion of absurdity.James Anthony Froude, Short Studies on Great Subjects (1867–82), Party Politics.
The denser the ignorance, the more enlightened it thinks itself to be.Henri de Lubac, Paradoxes of Faith (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1987), p. 107.
John Dryden, The Maiden Queen (1667), Act I, scene 2.
And his best riches, ignorance of wealth.Oliver Goldsmith, The Deserted Village (1770), line 61.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Frederick Ungar, ed., Goethe's World View Presented in His Reflections and Maxims (1963), p. 58–59.
Never was there a greater need for the diffusion of knowledge, for in the present ignorance of men there is a very real and imminent danger. We have in the immediate future the possibility of serious struggle; we have all the elements of a possible social upheaval, and we have no religion with sufficient hold upon the people to check what may develop into a wild and dangerous movement. As yet philosophy is the study of the very few only, and the science which has done so much for us, and has achieved so many triumphs, cannot stay the danger which threatens us. The only thing that can prevent it is the diffusion of knowledge, so that men shall understand what is really best for them and shall realize that nothing can ever be good for one which is against the interests of the whole. p. 333Charles Webster Leadbeater, Some Glimpses of Occultism: Ancient and Modern (1903)
Originally used to oppose traditional theological views that everything exists and is determined by divine intervention because no other plausible reason or explanation is seen.
Nothing can be more unjust than the ignorant man, who thinks that nothing is well done by himself.
If one neglects the laws of learning, a sentence is imposed that he is forever chained to his ignorance.Sterling W. Sill, The Power of Believing, (1968), p. 29.
Malcolm X quoted in James L. Conyers, Andrew P. Smallwood, Malcolm X: A Historical Reader, Carolina Academic Press, (2008)
A truly refined mind will seem to be ignorant of the existence of anything that is not perfectly proper, placid, and pleasant.Charles Dickens, Little Dorrit, Ch. 5 - Something Wrong Somewhere (1855-1857).
Julian Assange, quoted inFacebook Nation: Total Information Awareness by Newton Lee, (2014)
Thomas Jefferson, Notes on the State of Virginia (1781-1785), Query 6.
Henri de Lubac, Paradoxes of Faith (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1987), p. 107.
Father, forgive them; for they do not know what they are doing.Jesus Luke 23:34
Unfortunately, the habit of praising or blaming without knowledge of the subject is becoming increasingly common to men of all parties today. This is not due to the failure of this or that doctrine, but to the crisis through which our whole civilisation is passing. At the same time this regrettable tendency adds greatly to the confusion in which all the sociological disputes of our day are taking place.Lucien Laurat, Marxism and Democracy, 1940, published by the Left Book Club, Victor Gollancz Ltd, London; translated by Edward Fitzgerald. Text online at the Marxists Internet Archive.
John Milton, Paradise Lost (1667; 1674), Book IV, line 830.
William Shakespeare, Love's Labour's Lost (c. 1595-6), Act IV, scene 2, line 21.
Bring your ignorance to the Holy Spirit, the great teacher, who by His precious truth will lead you into all truth.William Paton Mackay, reported in Josiah Hotchkiss Gilbert, Dictionary of Burning Words of Brilliant Writers (1895), p. 337.
Benjamin Disraeli, Sybil: Or, The Two Nations (1845), Book IV, Chapter V.
It’s amazing how self-perpetuating ignorance is.Algis Budrys, Hard Landing (1993), p. 61
Alfred Tennyson, Idylls of the King, Merlin and Vivien. Line 662. (1859-1885).
Friedrich Hayek, The Constitution of Liberty (1960), Chap. 2 : The Creative Powers of a Free Civilization
The more we study, we the more discover our ignorance.Percy Bysshe Shelley, Scenes from the Magico Prodigioso of Calderon, scene 1.
Baruch Spinoza, Ethica ordine geometrico demonstrata et in quinque parses distincta, Part 1, Addendum; Amsterdam, 1677.
Who ne'er knew salt, or heard the billows roar.Homer, The Odyssey, Book XI, line 153. Pope's translation.
It's innocence when it charms us, ignorance when it doesn't.Mignon McLaughlin, The Second Neurotic's Notebook, 1966, Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill
Ignorance, madam, pure ignorance.Samuel Johnson, in reply to the lady who asked why "pastern" was defined in the dictionary as "the knee of the horse". Boswell's Life of Johnson, (1755).
How can he remember well his ignorance—which his growth requires—who has so often to use his knowledge?Henry David Thoreau, Walden (1854).
Know not what you know, and see not what you see.
Ignorance of one’s misfortunes is clear gain.Euripides, Antiope, Frag. 204.
Robert N. Proctor, as quoted in "The problem with facts", by Tim Harford, in Financial Times Magazine (9 March 2017)
Ukrainian: не́уцький (néucʹkyj), неосві́чений (neosvíčenyj), неодуко́ваний (neodukóvanyj), неписьме́нний (nepysʹménnyj), негра́мотний (nehrámotnyj), те́мний (uk) (témnyj)
1611 April (first recorded performance),William Shakespeare,“The Tragedie of Cymbeline”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act III, scene i]: […]his shipping—Poor ignorant baubles!— upon our terrible seas,Like eggshells moved upon their surges, crack’dAs easily ’gainst our rocks:
Bulgarian: негра́мотен (bg) (negrámoten), необразо́ван (bg) (neobrazóvan), неу́к (bg) (neúk)
1611,The Holy Bible, […] (King James Version), London:[…]Robert Barker, […], OCLC 964384981, 2 Corinthians 1:8:
“ignorant”, in Trésor de la langue française informatisé [Digitized Treasury of the French Language], 2012.
(obsolete) unknown; undiscoveredc. 1603–1604 (date written),William Shakespeare,“The Tragedie of Othello, the Moore of Venice”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act IV, scene ii]:Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed?c. 1610–1611 (date written),William Shakespeare,“The VVinters Tale”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act I, scene ii]: […]I beseech you,If you know aught which does behove my knowledgeThereof to be inform’d, imprison't notIn ignorant concealment.1845, Robert Browning, letter addressed to Elizabeth Barrett Browning, cited in Percy Lubbock, Elizabeth Barrett Browning in Her Letters, London: Smith, Elder & Co., 1906, Chapter 4, p. 106,[5] […]as to you, your goodness and understanding will always see to the bottom of involuntary or ignorant faults—always help me to correct them.
ignorant m or n (feminine singular ignorantă, masculine plural ignoranți, feminine and neuter plural ignorante)
11 Polish11.1 Etymology11.2 Pronunciation11.3 Noun11.3.1 Declension11.3.2 Derived terms11.3.3 Related terms11.4 Further reading
Not knowing (a fact or facts), unaware (of something).1611,The Holy Bible, […] (King James Version), London:[…]Robert Barker, […], OCLC 964384981, 2 Corinthians 1:8:For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life:1677, John Dryden, The State of Innocence and Fall of Man, London: Henry Herringman, Act II, p. 14,[2]Eve. Somewhat forbids me, which I cannot name;For ignorant of guilt, I fear not shame:But some restraining thought, I know not why,Tells me, you long should beg, I long deny.1851, Walt Whitman, “Art and Artists” in Emory Holloway (editor), The Uncollected Poetry and Prose of Walt Whitman, Garden City, NY: Doubleday, Page & Co., 1921, Volume 1, p. 242,[3] […]perhaps it is sometimes the case that the greatest artists live and die, the world and themselves alike ignorant what they possess.1921, John T. McCutcheon, The Restless Age, Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill, p. 179,[4]That night he slept the sleep of happiness, blissfully ignorant that he had placed the letters in the wrong envelopes.
Russian: неве́жественный (ru) (nevéžestvennyj), необразо́ванный (ru) (neobrazóvannyj), негра́мотный (ru) (negrámotnyj), тёмный (ru) (tjómnyj)
ignorant (comparative ignoranter or more ignorant, superlative ignorantest or most ignorant)
1 English1.1 Alternative forms1.2 Etymology1.3 Pronunciation1.4 Adjective1.4.1 Synonyms1.4.2 Derived terms1.4.3 Related terms1.4.4 Translations1.5 Noun1.6 Anagrams
1845, Robert Browning, letter addressed to Elizabeth Barrett Browning, cited in Percy Lubbock, Elizabeth Barrett Browning in Her Letters, London: Smith, Elder & Co., 1906, Chapter 4, p. 106,[5] […]as to you, your goodness and understanding will always see to the bottom of involuntary or ignorant faults—always help me to correct them.
[…]his shipping—Poor ignorant baubles!— upon our terrible seas,Like eggshells moved upon their surges, crack’dAs easily ’gainst our rocks:
Manx: (please verify) almoragh, (please verify) neuhoiggalagh, (please verify) neuynsit, (please verify) lag-hastagh, (please verify) neuhoiggaltagh, (please verify) lag-hushtagh, (please verify) anoayllagh, (please verify) meehushtagh
Resulting from ignorance; foolish; silly.1611 April (first recorded performance),William Shakespeare,“The Tragedie of Cymbeline”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act III, scene i]: […]his shipping—Poor ignorant baubles!— upon our terrible seas,Like eggshells moved upon their surges, crack’dAs easily ’gainst our rocks:1916, Mark Twain, The Mysterious Stranger edited by Albert Paine, New York: Harper & Bros., Chapter 8, p. 112,[6]He had never felt a pain or a sorrow, and did not know what they were, in any really informing way. He had no knowledge of them except theoretically—that is to say, intellectually. And of course that is no good. One can never get any but a loose and ignorant notion of such things except by experience.
c. 1610–1611 (date written),William Shakespeare,“The VVinters Tale”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act I, scene ii]: […]I beseech you,If you know aught which does behove my knowledgeThereof to be inform’d, imprison't notIn ignorant concealment.
1611,The Holy Bible, […] (King James Version), London:[…]Robert Barker, […], OCLC 964384981, 2 Corinthians 1:8:For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life:
Arabic: جَاهِل‎ (jāhil)Egyptian Arabic: جاهل‎ (gāhil)Hijazi Arabic: جاهل‎ m (jāhil)
“ignorant” in Diccionari de la llengua catalana, segona edició, Institut d’Estudis Catalans.
c. 1603–1604 (date written),William Shakespeare,“The Tragedie of Othello, the Moore of Venice”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act IV, scene ii]:Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed?
For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life:
[…]I beseech you,If you know aught which does behove my knowledgeThereof to be inform’d, imprison't notIn ignorant concealment.
Unknowledgeable or uneducated; characterized by ignorance.1663,John Tillotson,The Wisdom of being Religious:That man that doth not know those things which are of use and necessity for him to know, is but an ignorant man, whatever he may know besides;1766, Oliver Goldsmith, The Vicar of Wakefield, London: F. Newbery, Volume I, Chapter 15, p. 150,[1]The ignorant peasant, without fault, is greater than the philosopher with many; for what is genius or courage without an heart?
“ignorant”, in Gran Diccionari de la Llengua Catalana, Grup Enciclopèdia Catalana, 2023
Macedonian: не́ук (néuk), необра́зован (neobrázovan), не́писмен (népismen), непро́светен (neprósveten), негра́мотен (negrámoten) (archaic)
1611 April (first recorded performance),William Shakespeare,“The Tragedie of Cymbeline”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act III, scene i]:
6 French6.1 Pronunciation6.2 Etymology 16.2.1 Adjective6.2.1.1 Related terms6.3 Etymology 26.3.1 Participle6.4 Further reading
1766, Oliver Goldsmith, The Vicar of Wakefield, London: F. Newbery, Volume I, Chapter 15, p. 150,[1]The ignorant peasant, without fault, is greater than the philosopher with many; for what is genius or courage without an heart?
c. 1603–1604 (date written),William Shakespeare,“The Tragedie of Othello, the Moore of Venice”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act IV, scene ii]:
7 German7.1 Etymology7.2 Pronunciation7.3 Adjective7.3.1 Declension7.3.2 Related terms7.4 Further reading
Kurdish:Central Kurdish: (please verify) نەزان‎ (ku) (nezan)Northern Kurdish: nezan (ku)
ignorant m (feminine singular ignoranta, masculine plural ignorants, feminine plural ignorantas)
2 Catalan2.1 Pronunciation2.2 Etymology 12.2.1 Adjective2.2.1.1 Related terms2.3 Etymology 22.3.1 Verb2.4 Further reading
1921, John T. McCutcheon, The Restless Age, Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill, p. 179,[4]That night he slept the sleep of happiness, blissfully ignorant that he had placed the letters in the wrong envelopes.
“ignorant” in Diccionari català-valencià-balear, Antoni Maria Alcover and Francesc de Borja Moll, 1962.
1916, Mark Twain, The Mysterious Stranger edited by Albert Paine, New York: Harper & Bros., Chapter 8, p. 112,[6]He had never felt a pain or a sorrow, and did not know what they were, in any really informing way. He had no knowledge of them except theoretically—that is to say, intellectually. And of course that is no good. One can never get any but a loose and ignorant notion of such things except by experience.
1663,John Tillotson,The Wisdom of being Religious:That man that doth not know those things which are of use and necessity for him to know, is but an ignorant man, whatever he may know besides;
1677, John Dryden, The State of Innocence and Fall of Man, London: Henry Herringman, Act II, p. 14,[2]Eve. Somewhat forbids me, which I cannot name;For ignorant of guilt, I fear not shame:But some restraining thought, I know not why,Tells me, you long should beg, I long deny.
1851, Walt Whitman, “Art and Artists” in Emory Holloway (editor), The Uncollected Poetry and Prose of Walt Whitman, Garden City, NY: Doubleday, Page & Co., 1921, Volume 1, p. 242,[3] […]perhaps it is sometimes the case that the greatest artists live and die, the world and themselves alike ignorant what they possess.
Belarusian: не́вуцкі (njévucki), неадукава́ны (njeadukavány), нягра́матны (njahrámatny), няпісьме́нны (njapisʹmjénny), цёмны (be) (cjómny)
“ignorant” in Diccionari normatiu valencià, Acadèmia Valenciana de la Llengua.
ignorant (strong nominative masculine singular ignoranter, comparative ignoranter, superlative am ignorantesten)
Vietnamese: ngu dốt (vi), dốt nát (vi), mù chữ (vi)
ignorant in Wielki słownik języka polskiego, Instytut Języka Polskiego PAN
c. 1610–1611 (date written),William Shakespeare,“The VVinters Tale”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act I, scene ii]:
(slang) Ill-mannered, crude.His manner was at best off-hand, at worst totally ignorant.
This page was last edited on 25 February 2023, at 13:22.
