German Visual DictionaryA photo guide to everyday words and phrases in German, arranged by topic and including information on culture and customs. Free sample content available!Read more
Join the Collins communityAll the latest wordy news, linguistic insights, offers and competitions every month.Read more
Example sentences from real language to show how the word is used
Learning German: Apologizing and attracting someone’s attentionMost of us know when we have to say sorry, but when we’re not speaking our own language, it’s important to know how to do it. Here are some hints to get you started in German!Read more
Collins Complete and Unabridged German DictionaryThe perfect dictionary for advanced learners of GermanRead more
Learn German GrammarAll you need to know about German grammar and verbs. Visit our online resource.October 22, 2020Read more
Understanding German verb tensesIn this short article, we explain and provide some examples of the most common German tenses you'll come across.Read more
Unlock German with the Paul Noble methodThe Paul Noble Method: no books, no rote memorization, no chance of failure. Start with the Complete German Beginner's course, then follow up with Next Steps German.Read more
Like a miser, very cautious with money.Synonyms: see Thesaurus:stingy2005,J. M. Coetzee,“Three”, inSlow Man, New York: Viking, →ISBN, page 20:What could be more selfish, more miserly—this in specific is what gnaws at him—than dying childless, terminating the line, subtracting oneself from the great work of generation? Worse than miserly, in fact: unnatural.
miserly in The Century Dictionary, New York, N.Y.: The Century Co., 1911
This page was last edited on 25 February 2023, at 10:15.
Chinese:Mandarin: 吝嗇／吝啬 (zh) (lìnsè), 小氣／小气 (zh) (xiǎoqì), (informal) 摳門／抠门 (zh) (kōumén), 摳／抠 (zh) (kōu)
2005,J. M. Coetzee,“Three”, inSlow Man, New York: Viking, →ISBN, page 20:What could be more selfish, more miserly—this in specific is what gnaws at him—than dying childless, terminating the line, subtracting oneself from the great work of generation? Worse than miserly, in fact: unnatural.
Russian: скупо́й (ru) (skupój), ска́редный (ru) (skárednyj), жа́дный (ru) (žádnyj), прижи́мистый (ru) (prižímistyj)
2005,J. M. Coetzee,“Three”, inSlow Man, New York: Viking, →ISBN, page 20:
Low German:German Low German: giezig, gnietschig, gnittschig, knickerig, neetsch, näätsch, nehrig, nährig, netig, nötig, pennschieterig
Japanese: けちな (ja) (kechi na), 吝嗇な (ja) (りんしょくな, rinshoku na)
What could be more selfish, more miserly—this in specific is what gnaws at him—than dying childless, terminating the line, subtracting oneself from the great work of generation? Worse than miserly, in fact: unnatural.
1 English1.1 Etymology1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Adjective1.3.1 Derived terms1.3.2 Translations1.4 Further reading1.5 Anagrams
miserly in Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, G. & C. Merriam, 1913

