When you have finished reviewing my changes, you may follow the instructions on the template below to fix any issues with the URLs.
Just as well Wikipedia doesn't have a problem with original research, then, huh? What's that you say, WP does have a problem? Oh dear. Strongly prefers published, secondary material? You don't say! Oh, you do?
For your consideration, I have excerpted the following from the WP:RS page: "This means that we publish only the analysis, views, and opinions of reliable authors, and not those of Wikipedians who have read and interpreted primary source material for themselves."
If you have discovered URLs which were erroneously considered dead by the bot, you can report them with this tool.
5Utility Calculus not only to do with ethics				1 comment
The third step of this so-called algorithm reads rather strange to me. Can anyone check whether the string "with respect to each individual, in regard to whom the tendency of it is good upon the whole: do this again" should really appear twice in a row?
Moved to entry on Bentham. Sir Paul 07:08, Feb 16, 2004 (UTC)
I'd add the cites myself, but...well, to be honest it's Friday night and I can't be bothered :D
This page was last edited on 22 September 2022, at 06:57 (UTC).
At least you kept my example!! :-) - Vanguard 21:49, 29 Sep 2004 (UTC)
I moved the entry precisely because of the issues you raise: the problem of fairness is not a problem of the Felicific Calculus, but one of the classical Benthamite doctrine. Even if you reject the idea of a mechanical way to estimate the goodness of a state of affairs or the rightness of an act (and thus cast doubt on the plausibility of the Felicific Calculus), it is still problematic (for some at least) that it could be the case that the theory condones sacrificing some to benefit others.
Thanks for the kind words :) Sir Paul 14:08, Feb 18, 2004 (UTC)
This message was posted before February 2018. After February 2018, "External links modified" talk page sections are no longer generated or monitored by InternetArchiveBot. No special action is required regarding these talk page notices, other than regular verification using the archive tool instructions below. Editors have permission to delete these "External links modified" talk page sections if they want to de-clutter talk pages, but see the RfC before doing mass systematic removals. This message is updated dynamically through the template {{source check}} (last update: 18 January 2022).
If you found an error with any archives or the URLs themselves, you can fix them with this tool.
Who invented this "unit of measurement"? I find no such thing in the original Bentham text cited.--.2003:E9:6F19:D043:415F:8D79:22F9:F2F8 (talk) 06:57, 22 September 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I have just added archive links to one external link on Felicific calculus. Please take a moment to review my edit. If necessary, add {{cbignore}} after the link to keep me from modifying it. Alternatively, you can add {{nobots|deny=InternetArchiveBot}} to keep me off the page altogether. I made the following changes:
Oh, just the one, you say*. Which is the original text by the guy that created the subject material under discussion. I see. Not really WP:RS then, is it?
Cheers. —cyberbot IITalk to my owner:Online 03:10, 17 October 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
(* I am not going to count that quaint little "glossary" as a WP:RS. I just aint!) Wayne 08:39, 30 October 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
When you have finished reviewing my changes, please set the checked parameter below to true to let others know.
Can I just confirm these are the same thing, just different names, yes? Otherwise, I'm so very confused. - sars 22:38, Feb 3, 2005 (UTC)
I'm sorry, but the utility calculus is not merely a tools for utilitarian moral theorists. It is also part of probabilistic/inductive logic, game theory, and economic theory. See: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utility#Utility_functions The redirect from utility calculus to felicific calculs seems like a really bad idea to me. The felicific calculus is a subset of utility calculi at best, thus the redirect should go the other way around. --207.112.45.58 04:49, 22 December 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
A very interesting article, especially the example at the end. When I thought about this case I clearly followed exactly the same reasoning but in a purely intuitive way. I think we all are wired (or programmed) to perform similar calculations; it is a known fact that kids receive generally more attention at hospitals and generally in society than the elderly.
I have just modified one external link on Felicific calculus. Please take a moment to review my edit. If you have any questions, or need the bot to ignore the links, or the page altogether, please visit this simple FaQ for additional information. I made the following changes:
Can you explain why you have moved that part? From what I know of the subject (my knowledge admittedly being rather scant), the lack of "fairness" (of which the above is a good example) was one of the major problems of utilitarianism. Significant enough, infact, that JS Mill presented a modified utilitarianism which included some criterion of fairness in addition to felicity. - snoyes 07:39, 16 Feb 2004 (UTC)
I think that the factor of fairness should also be taken account in the calculus. If the tortured person knows he is not treated fair (e.g. why not another person receives the torture to make me happy), his unhappiness will be greatly increased and hence you need far more people to receive the happiness somehow due to his being tortured. On the other hand, if the person being tortured knows he is doing good to so many people, he may feel less pain. In all, the calculus should still be valid. - Boris --68.40.56.32 09:08, 6 April 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}""Felicific calculus" search". Google Scholar. (>3,300 results)
Just to say that Bentham's instructions for felicific calculus can be found in his "Principles of Morals and Legislations", an electronic copy of which is available at http://www.constitution.org/jb/pml.htm (specifically http://www.constitution.org/jb/pml_04.htm)
10Plenty of sources at Google Scholar & Google Books				1 comment
In our FAQ, we at Wikiwand outline all the key bullet points that might interest you - why we built Wikiwand, how do we make money, how can you contributw and many more. you were looking for one of these?
Like you, we're huge Wikipedia fans! In fact, who isn't? Wikipedia is the greatest curator of human knowledge, allowing people all around the world to freely access 35 million articles in 288 languages...
Suggest a featureWe always love to hear your feedack!We built Wikiwand for you and we’ll keep listening to our users wishes, ideas and suggestions.Do share!Share your feedback
We always love to hear your feedack!We built Wikiwand for you and we’ll keep listening to our users wishes, ideas and suggestions.Do share!
Think there’s a missing article on Wikipedia? Go right ahead and add one!This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices.
About WikiwandLike you, we're huge Wikipedia fans! In fact, who isn't? Wikipedia is the greatest curator of human knowledge, allowing people all around the world to freely access 35 million articles in 288 languages...Learn more about Wikiwand
Add an article to WikipediaThink there’s a missing article on Wikipedia? Go right ahead and add one!This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices. Add an article on Wikipedia
Read our FAQIn our FAQ, we at Wikiwand outline all the key bullet points that might interest you - why we built Wikiwand, how do we make money, how can you contributw and many more. you were looking for one of these?Read Wikiwand’s FAQ
Explore Wikidata by looking at a featured showcase item for author Douglas Adams (Q42).
Learn how you can retrieve and use data from Wikidata.
2022-12-28: Lexeme L800000, for the Nynorsk (Q25164) word 'fotballturnering', meaning 'football tournament', is created.
Talk and ask questions on the Project chat, Telegram groups, or the live IRC chatconnect.
2022-11-09: The Wikidata development team talk about what they've been working on in the office hours at 17:00 UTC on Telegram.
2022-12-31: Lexeme L900000, for the Bokmål (Q25167) word 'urolog', meaning 'urologist', is created.
Work with other volunteers on a subject that interests you: join a WikiProject.
Check out Wikidata:Tools for some of our best tools and gadgets for using and exploring Wikidata.
As the world combats the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,Wikidata has been extremely useful in collecting and modelling useful information related to COVID-19, from relevant research articles and clinical trials, to epidemiological statistics of various regions, to lexemes for words and phrases commonly associated with the pandemic, and much more. A lot of work from WikiProject COVID-19 goes into creating and maintaining these items, bolstering Wikidata's role as a helpful open resource in the pandemic.
This page was last edited on 22 January 2023, at 14:51.
the free knowledge base with 102,150,210 data items that anyone can edit.
Wikidata acts as central storage for the structured data of its Wikimedia sister projects including Wikipedia, Wikivoyage, Wiktionary, Wikisource, and others.
Wikipedia – Encyclopedia    Wiktionary – Dictionary and thesaurus    Wikibooks – Textbooks, manuals, and cookbooks    Wikinews – News    Wikiquote – Collection of quotations    Wikisource – Library    Wikiversity – Learning resources    Wikivoyage – Travel guides    Wikispecies – Directory of species    Wikimedia Commons – Media repository    Incubator – New language versions    Meta-Wiki – Wikimedia project coordination    MediaWiki – Software documentation
2023-01-26: Lexeme L1000000, for the Nynorsk (Q25164) word 'etymologi', meaning 'etymology', is created.
