Connect your Spotify account to your Last.fm account and scrobble everything you listen to, from any Spotify app on any device or platform.
We don't have a wiki for this artist. Do you know any background info about this artist?
↑ "Taylor Swift - Delicate". https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tCXGJQYZ9JA. Retrieved April 4, 2018.
↑ Taylor Swift Performs 'Look What You Made Me Do,' 'Delicate' & More at Biggest Weekend
↑ Here Are All the Songs Taylor Swift Played on the Opening Night of the Reputation Tour
Singles																																							Tim McGraw																															Teardrops on My Guitar																															Our Song																															Love Story																															White Horse																															You Belong with Me																															Mine																															Back to December																															Mean																															We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together
↑ BreakTudo Awards 2018: Anitta, BTS and Camila Cabello lead the list of award winners
Extended plays																																							Sounds of the Season: The Taylor Swift Holiday Collection																															Beautiful Eyes
Kids' Choice Awards: 'Avengers: Infinity War' Tops Nominees; DJ Khaled to Host
All the Downtown Los Angeles Spots Featured in Taylor Swift's 'Delicate' Music Video
↑ Fans Can't Stop Comparing Taylor Swift's New Video To This 2016 Perfume Ad
Explore																																														Main Page																																	Discuss																																	All Pages																																	Community																																	Interactive Maps																																	Recent Blog Posts
↑ Taylor Swift Gets Up Close & Personal in 'Delicate' Vertical Video
BreakTudo Awards 2018: Anitta, BTS and Camila Cabello lead the list of award winners
On March 30, 2018, Swift uploaded an alternate video exclusively to Spotify, which was made available for users in the US, the UK, Sweden, and Latin America.[1] The video was filmed in one continuous shot in a vertical format. It features Swift walking in the woods while singing and also referencing her relationship with Joe Alwyn by "clutching her necklace with a J on the pendant".[7] The video was later released on YouTube on May 16. To date the video has over 6.3 million views on YouTube.
Additionally, on the week dated August 11, the song spent its twenty-first week on the chart, becoming the longest charting from Reputation on the Hot 100, and spent 35 weeks on the chart. After one year released, the song spent its fifty-third weeks on the Adult Contemporary chart, becoming the longest charting song by Swift. It also becoming the ninth longest charting song by a female artist on the chart in history. Billboard noted that compared to other singles from Reputation, which peaked high initially and then fell, "Delicate" was a slow growing radio hit which gained popularity the longer audiences stayed with it. It also became the biggest radio hit from the album surpassing "Look What You Made Me Do".[13]
↑ Here's the meaning behind the "Delicate" video, because Taylor Swift is finally living her best life
Collaborations																																							Half of My Heart																															Two Is Better Than One																															Both of Us																															Highway Don't Care																															Safe & Sound
More																																							List of songs																															List of Taylor Swift's ex-boyfriends																															Social causes																															13
↑ All the Downtown Los Angeles Spots Featured in Taylor Swift's 'Delicate' Music Video
Teen Choice Awards 2018: Avengers: Infinity War, Black Panther and Riverdale Among Top Nominees
Extras																																														More																																							List of songs																															List of Taylor Swift's ex-boyfriends																															Social causes																															13																																																Things you want to tell Taylor Swift
↑ Taylor Swift Channels Britney Spears' 'Lucky,' Maddie Ziegler in 'Delicate' Video
Taylor Swift, Bruno Mars, Cardi B & More Songs Earn iHeartRadio Titanium Award for 1 Billion Spins: Exclusive
Fans Can't Stop Comparing Taylor Swift's New Video To This 2016 Perfume Ad
↑ Kids' Choice Awards: 'Avengers: Infinity War' Tops Nominees; DJ Khaled to Host
↑ Taylor Swift, Bruno Mars, Cardi B & More Songs Earn iHeartRadio Titanium Award for 1 Billion Spins: Exclusive
The song received critical acclaim. Geoff Nelson of Consequence of Sound coined the track as one of Reputation's strongest moments, along with "Gorgeous" and "Call It What You Want".[14] Zach Schonfeld of Newsweek called it as "the album's first real moment of vulnerability", and it succeeds by "peeling back all the bravado and EDM aggression of the opening tracks".[15] Roisin O'Connor of The Independent stated that "Taylor Swift produced some of her most honest and direct songwriting to date", and that "'Delicate' was one of the best examples of that".[16] Rob Sheffield of Rolling Stone named it the best song of 2017,[17] and was also included in Vanity Fair's The 17 Best Pop Songs of 2017, stating that "even at her most publicly beset, Taylor Swift possesses a secret weapon that separates her from the competition: truly unimpeachable songcraft".[18] In 2018, Billboard ranked "Delicate" as the 35th best song of 2018,[19] and was also named by Slant Magazine as the 9th best single of 2018.[20] Rolling Stone also named it as the 12th best song of 2018.[21]
Filmography																																														Roles																																							Valentine's Day (film)																																																Voice roles																																							The Lorax (film)
On June 30, 2018, Swift performed this song in a secret gig in Chicago as she took a break from her Reputation Stadium Tour.[10] On December 6, 2018, Swift made a surprise appearance at the Ally Coalition Talent Show in New York City and performed an acoustic version of this song with Hayley Kiyoko.[11]
Here Are All the Songs Taylor Swift Played on the Opening Night of the Reputation Tour
A vertical video was uploaded to Spotify on March 30, 2018, which was made available for users in the US, the UK, Sweden, and Latin America.[1] The video was later released on YouTube on May 16. As of March 2019, the video on YouTube has over 5.6 million views.
Do the girls back home touch you like I do?
Taylor released a clip from her DirecTV series, Taylor Swift NOW, The Making of a Song, for "Delicate".
Lyrics																																							Teardrops on My Guitar (lyrics)																															Our Song (lyrics)																															I'm Only Me When I'm With You (lyrics)																															Should've Said No (Alternate Version) (lyrics)																															Picture To Burn (Radio Edit) (lyrics)																															Fearless (lyrics)																															Fifteen (lyrics)																															Love Story (lyrics)																															White Horse (lyrics)																															You Belong with Me (lyrics)
The song had its debut performance at the University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona, on May 8, 2018, as part of the setlist for Swift's Reputation Stadium Tour.[8] On May 27, 2018, Swift performed a stripped-down, acoustic version of the song as part of her performance at BBC Radio 1's Biggest Weekend in Swansea, where she supported herself on the guitar.[9]
↑ Taylor Swift's 'Reputation': A Track-By-Track Review, From "Ready For It" to "New Year's Day"
↑ 1.0 1.1 Taylor Swift’s New Delicate Video Only on Spotify
On March 5, 2018, Swift announced that the music video of "Delicate" would premiere on the iHeart Radio Music Awards on March 11. "Delicate" was released the next day onto Hot adult contemporary radio and onto contemporary hit radio before a radio release in Italy and the United Kingdom on April 20, 2018.
↑ Teen Choice Awards 2018: Avengers: Infinity War, Black Panther and Riverdale Among Top Nominees
Discography																																														Albums																																							Taylor Swift																															Fearless																															Speak Now																															Red																															1989																															Reputation																															Lover																															Folklore																															Evermore																															Midnights																																																Extended plays																																							Sounds of the Season: The Taylor Swift Holiday Collection																															Beautiful Eyes																																																Live albums																																							Speak Now World Tour: Live																																																Singles																																							Tim McGraw																															Teardrops on My Guitar																															Our Song																															Love Story																															White Horse																															You Belong with Me																															Mine																															Back to December																															Mean																															We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together																																																Lyrics																																							Teardrops on My Guitar (lyrics)																															Our Song (lyrics)																															I'm Only Me When I'm With You (lyrics)																															Should've Said No (Alternate Version) (lyrics)																															Picture To Burn (Radio Edit) (lyrics)																															Fearless (lyrics)																															Fifteen (lyrics)																															Love Story (lyrics)																															White Horse (lyrics)																															You Belong with Me (lyrics)																																																Collaborations																																							Half of My Heart																															Two Is Better Than One																															Both of Us																															Highway Don't Care																															Safe & Sound																																																Tours																																							Fearless Tour																															Speak Now World Tour																															Red Tour
In the United States, "Delicate" was a sleeper hit, debuting at number 84 on the Billboard Hot 100 after its release as a single. It rose to number 66 the following week. The song has since peaked at number 12,[12] making Reputation the first album in three years to have five top 20 hits on the Hot 100 with the last album doing so being Swift's own album 1989 in 2015. It also debuted at number 24 on the Adult Contemporary chart, becoming the week's highest ranking debut and later peaked at number one on the chart becoming the first single from Reputation to do so and spent ten weeks at the top of the chart. The song later become the longest-charting solo female song of the decade on the chart by more than 54 weeks of charting. The song entered at number 32 on the Mainstream Top 40 and number 37 on the Adult Top 40, peaking at the top position on both radio charts becoming the first single from Reputation to do so.
Here's the meaning behind the "Delicate" video, because Taylor Swift is finally living her best life
Albums																																							Taylor Swift																															Fearless																															Speak Now																															Red																															1989																															Reputation																															Lover																															Folklore																															Evermore																															Midnights
Taylor Swift Gets Up Close & Personal in 'Delicate' Vertical Video
Taylor Swift's 'Reputation': A Track-By-Track Review, From "Ready For It" to "New Year's Day"
"Delicate" is fifth track and sixth single from Taylor Swift's sixth studio album, Reputation, first released on November 10, 2017. It was released as a single on March 12, 2018 through Big Machine Records. Swift wrote the song with producers Max Martin and Shellback. Upon its release, the song was met with critical acclaim, with many critics praising its lyrical vulnerability and production, and was noted as an album highlight. The song won Best Music Video at the sixth annual iHeartRadio Music Awards.
↑ Taylor Swift dances like nobody's watching in 'Delicate' video
After the release of Reputation, the song debuted at number 98 on the Canadian Hot 100 falling off the chart the following week. After its release as a single it re-entered the chart at number 44, becoming the fifth consecutive song from Reputation to peak within the top 50 of the chart. The next week it moved to number 38, later peaking at number 20.The song also debuted at number 87 in the UK, before peaking at number 45. In Australia it debuted at number 56, later peaking at number 28.
Taylor Swift Channels Britney Spears' 'Lucky,' Maddie Ziegler in 'Delicate' Video
Delicate was the last single and music video Taylor released (worldwide) under Big Machine Records.
The music video for "Delicate" premiered on March 11, 2018, at the 2018 iHeartRadio Music Awards after Swift accepted her award for "Female Artist of the Year". Directed by Joseph Kahn, the music video was shot in various locations around Los Angeles, including the Millennium Biltmore Hotel, the 7th Street/Metro Center station, the Los Angeles Theater and adjacent St. Vincent's Court, and the Golden Gopher bar.[2] The video features Swift discovering that she is invisible after a mystery man hands her a note, and is a satire and symbolic of Swift being able to be herself for the first time, and not caring about how others view her.[3][4] The video gained almost 13 million online views in the first 24 hours of release.[5] As of March 2019, the music video has gained over 340 million views on YouTube.[6]
[Intro] This ain't for the best My reputation's never been worse, so You must like me for me… We can't make Any promises now, can we, babe? But you can make me a drink [Verse 1] Dive bar on the east side, where you at? Phone lights up my nightstand in the black Come here, you can meet me in the back Dark jeans and your Nikes, look at you Oh damn, never seen that color blue Just think of the fun things we could do 'Cause I like you [Pre-chorus] This ain't for the best My reputation's never been worse, so You must like me for me… Yeah, I want you We can't make Any promises now, can we, babe? But you can make me a drink [Chorus] Is it cool that I said all that? Is it chill that you're in my head? 'Cause I know that it's delicate (delicate) Is it cool that I said all that? Is it too soon to do this yet? 'Cause I know that it's delicate Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it delicate? [Verse 2] Third floor on the west side, me and you Handsome, you're a mansion with a view Do the girls back home touch you like I do? Long night, with your hands up in my hair Echoes of your footsteps on the stairs Stay here, honey, I don't wanna share 'Cause I like you [Pre-chorus] This ain't for the best My reputation's never been worse, so You must like me for me… Yeah, I want you We can't make Any promises now, can we, babe? But you can make me a drink [Chorus] Is it cool that I said all that? Is it chill that you're in my head? 'Cause I know that it's delicate (delicate) Is it cool that I said all that? Is it too soon to do this yet? 'Cause I know that it's delicate Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it delicate? [Bridge] Sometimes I wonder when you sleep Are you ever dreaming of me? Sometimes when I look into your eyes I pretend you're mine, all the damn time 'Cause I like you [Chorus] Is it cool that I said all that? Is it chill that you're in my head? 'Cause I know that it's delicate (delicate) (Yeah, I want you) Is it cool that I said all that? Is it too soon to do this yet? 'Cause I know that it's delicate (delicate) 'Cause I like you Is it cool that I said all that? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Is it chill that you're in my head? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? 'Cause I know that it's delicate Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? (Yeah, I want you) Is it cool that I said all that? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? Is it too soon to do this yet? Isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? 'Cause I know that it's delicate Isn't it delicate?
Taylor Swift Performs 'Look What You Made Me Do,' 'Delicate' & More at Biggest Weekend
A remix for the song featuring American musicians Sawyr and Ryan Tedder was released on May 25, 2018. On June 8, a remix of the song featuring musician Seeb was released.
Ionic Interment: Collecting an Ionic Trace partially reloads the magazine from reserves.
Yet one among them understands, in their limited fashion. They pour from one vessel to another. A welcome change. A new form. Another method of gifting death.
I am made finite. Personal. Bright and delicate to hide my true form. An intimacy.
They are hostages of their flesh, unable to see without vision. Unable to hear without sound. Unable to slake their thirst for fear of drowning.
Liquid Coils: Slower-building charge for higher damage. Increases impact damage. Slower charge time.
...that Rise of Iron is the first expansion for Destiny to have been crafted entirely by Bungie's Live Team?
...that many Guardians were killed by Crota and his armies during the battle to reclaim the Moon?
Fluted Barrel: Ultra-light barrel. Greatly increases handling speed. Slightly increases stability.
Short-Action Stock: This weapon is especially easy to grip. Greatly increases handling speed.
The quest to obtain the catalyst for Delicate Tomb can be obtained from Banshee-44 in the Tower once the weapon has been acquired.
Tempest Cascade: Collecting an Ionic Trace overcharges this weapon's next shot, jolting targets on hit.
They mistake the vessel for its contents. They confuse the pieces with the whole. They see their imprisonment as empowerment.
They think me contained, but I am instead diffused, as vapor upon the wind.
Traitor's Vessel: Fires a wide horizontal spread when shot from the hip. Final blows with this weapon have a chance to generate Ionic Traces. Powerful foes and opposing Guardians always generate Ionic Traces.
...that the Awoken souls are partially infused with both Darkness and Light?
Delicate Tomb is an Exotic Arc Fusion Rifle introduced in Season of Plunder.[1] During the season, the weapon was acquired by reaching rank 35 on the free track of the season pass, or rank 1 on the paid track. It can now be purchased at the Monument To Lost Lights, under the tab for Year 5, The Witch Queen.
...that while Fallen Dregs can be seen piloting Pikes, no Cabal was ever seen piloting an Interceptor in Destiny until Destiny 2?
