Veracity of section "Arguments of the semantic "truth" of vacuously true logical statements"
Let's go through it: "Insofar as (if) 7 is even, then 9 is even" is ESPECIALLY FALSE, because the whole statement is baloney, but even more so the whole premise about seven being even is even more hogwash.Thus it is an even more especially false statement as regards odd x's.(A point to be careful on.)
I would get rid of these entirely; they're fairly obscure arguments anyway (you did what with a truth table, thinks the reader?).— Toby 10:28 Sep 28, 2002 (UTC)
This would be like the article on water not giving any explanation of the molecular chemistry of H20, or like a physics article giving no mention of the underlying principles. It is absurd. Explaining why vacuous truth exists is not original research. It is the bare minimum of what should be in the article, but isn't because misguided/rigid-minded editors keep deleting it. Without an explanation for the underlying why behind vacuous truth, the article is massively less valuable to the public, to the point of bordering on being relatively worthless.
These are called lies and we already have a page Lie. --Bill Cherowitzo(talk) 18:13, 7 November 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
17Veracity of section "Arguments of the semantic "truth" of vacuously true logical statements"				2 comments
For example, the term vacuous triviality is used in a scientific article on Philosophy of Mind when discussing subjunctive conditionals - a conditional statement (a statement in which A implies B) discussing and considering what would be if something (A) would be different from the way it in fact is, or has been, and asking if it would imply B:
Make page: false truth (= pseudotruth; a false truth, data or information)
Bits towards the end of each logic article on how that article's feature fits into nonclassical logic, and the implications that this has for how we reason with it.
24A similar term for when the consequent is a tautology?				4 comments
This resolution is clearly the correct one, and you should change the whole article (or any other relevant mathematics) to reflect this.You may publish something in some glossified paper form first if you need to reference it. 188.157.169.36 (talk) 22:57, 20 March 2012 (UTC)Reply[reply]
30Make page: false truth (= pseudotruth; a false truth, data or information)
Comments from the earlier, especially incoherent versions of Vacuous truth:
For any integer x, if x > 5 then x > 3.
I agree. I have changed the page to include your first example instead of the nephew example. 50.35.82.244 (talk) 10:34, 30 May 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Also, all my extraterrestrial friends are beavers and love ice skating on the sun.
Make page: false truth (= pseudotruth; a false truth, data or information)[edit]
The teacher can give the test on any day except Friday.on Thursday morning the students would wonder if their statement "If the teacher does not give the exam today, he will give it tomorrow and yet surprise us" is ESPECIALLY false, or merely false.
— Preceding unsigned comment added by A Doon (talk • contribs) 18:59, 18 November 2013 (UTC)
Not that it matters, but Note that lying could be defined as knowingly making a false statement is wrong; lying should be defined as knowingly making a false statement with the intention of deceit. Albmont (talk) 17:41, 16 October 2008 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Ryguasu didn't understand if Ed Poor's comment was in jest. Ed Poor clarified:
Thanks, 67.171.229.101. Wondering, how I missed that! -- Sundar 07:04, Jan 6, 2005 (UTC)
I hadn't looked at this article in quite some time. I just looked at it today, and the concept now described (apparently it was changed back in April) now does not agree at all with the concept that I am used to hearing described as vacuous truth. The current article now seems to be talking about what I would describe as logically necessary truth or analytic truth. I think we should go back to the version about conditionals with false antecedents and statements universally quantified over the empty set. If there are sources that describe all analytic truths as "vacuous", then we could mention that as a minority usage, but this is not the best article to discuss that concept--it should go at analytic truth. --Trovatore (talk) 18:56, 21 June 2008 (UTC)Reply[reply]
To confused mathematicians, who have historically called this a vacuous "truth", the statement would be true;however, tge "all cell phones in the room are turned on" would also be considered "true" -- and not 'especially false', which is the correct resolution.Likewise mathematicians have not traditionally accepted as even more especially false the statement: "all cell phones in the room are turned on and turned off".
Vacuous truth is not limited to two-valued logics; only some of the arguments in favour of it (the ones that say "Well, it can hardly be false!") are so limited.In particular, intuitionistic logic has the same concept of vacuous truth.— Toby 08:35 Sep 28, 2002 (UTC)
1. The page is inconsistent in its stance on what vacuous truth is, but doesn't make this explicit (potentially causing confusion). The top section of the article gives two different definitions of what vacuous truth is. The first paragraph says that vacuous truth is "a statement that asserts that all members of the empty set have a certain property". The second paragraph says that vacuous refers to"a conditional statement with a false antecedent". These are not the same thing, although both are indeed sometimes referred to as "vacuous truth". This should be explained to the reader implicitly, rather than giving two conflicting definitions in a poorly phrased way like the article currently does.
I changed "two big questions" to "one big question", since there didn't seem to be any attempt to answer the 2nd.Indeed, the 2nd is largely discussed prior to the listing of the questions, while this part of the article is identified by the header as being about the 1st.(I suppose that this was the result of a rearrangement of the article.)— Toby 10:28 Sep 28, 2002 (UTC)
if the teacher does not give the exam on Friday, all the deductions following thereafter are not only false, they are ESPECIALLY false.
26For any integer x, if x > 5 then x > 3.
You could restate your point(s), though, e.g.: "if [thing x is in an impossible state], then [thing x, or y, is in an (unrelated/non-sequitur) impossible state]. Or, better: you could start out with "there are no pink elephants", and "an elephant cannot fit inside a loaf of bread" and get on with it. Similarly, we can say "Boston is in the state of Massachusetts." (While we're at it: get rid of the conflation of 'in' vs. 'resident-of' >;-) -- and probably not drag in set theory ('...sub-set (sic) of...') here thus massively expanding the domain-space of this entry.)
Any vacuous truth is an example of one of these, therefore proving both results in the proof of all vacuous truths.
The Rota quote inserted in the introduction is misplaced. It should be in some other part of the article. And the language of it should be changed too.
Might I therefore suggest that the example of an "actually true" vacuous statement be changed, and the first step, in selecting a better one, should be to check whether it is in fact actually true?
Who thinks that the empty set case is in some sense the most basic?Most logics have no notion of set in the first place, yet any classical logic has vacuous truth!(Ironically, this may be based on something that I did months ago, but redirecting Vacuous truth to Empty set on the grounds that the empty set version of vacuous truth was discussed there.That was when I was unskilled with redirects; I never should have done that.)— Toby 08:33 Sep 28, 2002 (UTC)
In mathematics the term vacuous triviality is used in a similar manner for the truth of a term (B) derived by definition (called trivial because there is no mathematical processing involved or needed) when no statement (A) can lead to the conclusion of (B) being wrong.
By the same arguments in this erroneous article, there is such a thing as a vacuous falsehood. 61.132.87.130 (talk) 03:45, 14 April 2010 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Parts of this section, including the overall conclusion, state that a vacuously true statement (e.g. P → Q assuming that P and Q are false) is not necessarily true. However, "P → Q" in standard logic is by definition true if P is false.
And early Monday morning, the first chance to talk before possibly being given the test, the students can furiously debate whether it is merely false or ESPECIALLY FALSE to say that if they do not get the test tomorrow (Tuesday), it is either false or ESPECIALLY false that if he does not give it the next day (Wednesday), it is either false or ESPECIALLY false to say that if he does not give it the next day (Thur), he will give it Friday and yet surprise us."
I argue that the nephew example is not an example of vacuous truth, because the set of nephews involved is not empty.
The most recent example of this (for this article) was when Wcherowi removed my recent edit (https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Vacuous_truth&oldid=783859142) where I resurrected someone else's text from years earlier (with some minor edits) that explained very clearly why vacuous truth exists, at least for the case of classical truth dealing with simple true-false values. By not including a section that explains the why behind vacuous truth like this, you are massively reducing the value of this article for the users. It's like if the article on water had no content whatsoever on the chemistry of water (as I said earlier). It is absurd.
Since it was just based on a misunderstanding of me, I'll remove it.— Toby 09:59 Sep 29, 2002 (UTC)
Dude! If you're still using MSIE6.x, you desperately need to get a better browser! Because it's so outdated, not only may it not recognize more current versions of HTML, but you'll be hideously susceptible to malware exploits.
"All my children are cats" is a vacuous truth, when spoken by someone without children. Similarly, "None of my children are cats" would also be a vacuous truth, when spoken by the same person.
As for the philosophical/linguistic debate about the term this should be kept separate, whilst still in the same article.KingStuart (talk) 14:53, 29 March 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply]
— Preceding unsigned comment added by 201.209.217.235 (talk) 13:25, 8 February 2013 (UTC)
From a practical point of view, the large majority of the links to this article are from mathematics articles, a trend that I think we can expect to continue. So while it may well be that we need a bit more acknowledgment of the other usage, we certainly don't want the first paragraph to be mainly about analytic truth. --Trovatore (talk) 22:18, 10 August 2008 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Statements "If the present king of france is bald..." are ESPECIALLY false (whatever the final part of the sentence).
There's a piece of mathematical folklore that concerns a topology journal that published a series of papers from various authors about properties of spaces of type X.One of the papers proved that all spaces of type X had property A. A subsequent paper proved that all spaces of type X had property ¬A.
24A similar term for when the consequent is a tautology?
Finally, correcting this article enables you to resolve correctly the exam paradox (execution paradox).
Would it be worth including a separate section that explains why the vacuous truth is actually a useful concept and not just something to make the truth tables work out? (I realise some of it is mentioned throughout the article, but an explicit explanation might be good too.) Something along the lines of:
You don't have to go with MSIE; other browsers are available, especially Chrome and Firefox.— Preceding unsigned comment added by TheGrandRascal (talk • contribs) 09:59, 9 May 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
This page was last edited on 3 February 2023, at 21:34 (UTC).
You might also like Timothy Gowers' take on this kind of thing. He argues that the reason why vacuously true statements seem difficult to swallow is that in non-mathematical English, the construction "if X then Y" typically implies causation. Therefore, when X is false, we tend to intuitively leap to thinking of the statement as a counterfactual. Double sharp (talk) 21:25, 24 October 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
What do we call true implications of the type P -> Q, where Q is a tautology? Something like if I go to school today, then 2 + 2 = 4. -- Sundar 09:28, Sep 30, 2004 (UTC)
Naturally whether these statements are false or ESPECIALLY false has no bearing on whether the studetns are being given a test, and, resigned, they must simply await the teacher to come in and tell them whether they are being tested.
— Preceding unsigned comment added by 213.57.104.221 (talk) 21:42, 6 April 2014 (UTC)
Not necessarily. In set theory, much of the definition and existence of the null set is pretty much determined by the vacuous truth that, for every member x of the null set, x is also a member of any other given set (which is of course a vacuous truth.) MarcelB612 (talk) 22:54, 10 August 2009 (UTC)Reply[reply]
A set is delimited by the empty element & infinite element in that set, those being the boundary conditions onto that set, and therefore no statement made about the elements of a set include the empty set & infinite set. Inside the set, the intersection of the elements with the empty set element & infinite set element pertain to the boundary limitations but never reach those boundary limitations, therefore those are limits towards, and never on.
I vote for the removal of the usage of tautological==vacuous. There may be some people who use the word in this sense, but they are probably confused. No need to reinforce or justify this mistake. AxelBoldt 00:08 Sep 30, 2002 (UTC)
(Yes, logical question: "ok, smarty-pants, after all that, why don't you just fix it?" Good question. Answer: honestly (and I mean it - this is not a duck-out), it's not my field, and I'm not at all confident that my "fix" would be solid, either. To use the old quote: "one doesn't have to actually be able to make a souffle' correctly to know that one's fallen...".) A Doon (talk) 18:31, 18 November 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply]
However, I can make up another statement: "For all integers x, if x is even, then x=4".Clearly, this is false.But once again, the statement "if 3 is even, then 3=4" is vacuous, but I would argue that it is intuitively false, and therefore this isn't a good reason to define vacuous statements as being true.Perhaps an example using empty sets would be better?Honestly, I am not convinced 'intuition' should enter into it at all. Kjsharke (talk) 20:24, 22 July 2010 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Now let's prove the first vacuous truth. By the Law of Contrapositives:
Stuff like this "All elephants inside a loaf of bread are pink"and the prime number example seem as much vacuously false as vacuously true. Are these really valid examples?168... 19:05, 6 Feb 2004 (UTC)
(In case you think this is semantics, consider the two-day case.The teacher will give the test Monday or Tuesday and yet surprise the students.The student could reason "if the test is not given today, then if tomorrow it is not given the condition that it is a surprise is broken".This contains an ESPECIALLY FALSE condition either in the first part (the test is not given today) or in the second (if tomorrow it is not given).
So why delete my submit and not add a source / adjust it? Aren't the empty set and its properties the most common vacuous truth example in mathematics? If find the example regarding the closed and open property very important for basic topology and maybe more important than the other two ones. — Preceding unsigned comment added by (Tensorproduct (talk) 23:42, 8 June 2017 (UTC))Reply[reply]
How to prove all vacuous truths at the same time
Articles on nonclassical approaches to logic. I'm not sure that any of these exist yet, and this is what I can't write yet but hope to be able to write soon.
Yes, the context denotes that the Boston mentioned is Boston, Massachusetts.But since we are tackling weighty logical arguments here, I think the knowledge of other locations named "Boston" is a distraction that weakens the example.
— Preceding unsigned comment added by 24.141.106.132 (talk) 21:37, 28 April 2012 (UTC)
The Boston example: "If I were in Boston, then I would be in Massachusetts" is an implicit statement of "Boston is a city in Massachusetts." or "Residents of Boston are a sub-set of residents of Massachusetts." Simply because this fact is reasonably well known does not suggest in any way that the statement tells one nothing. If that were so, then any true statement of any sort would be vacuously true if one happened to already be familiar with the content of the message.
For example, the statement "all cell phones in the room are turned off" is especially false if there are no cell phones in the room: it is false in that no cell phones are turned of, but it is even more especially false in that there are not even any cell phones in the room.
likewise on Wednesday the students will wonder if their statement "if the teacher does not give the exam today, it is either false or ESPECIALLY false that if he does not give it tomorrow (Thur), he will give it Friday and yet surprise us" is false or ESPECIALLY false
The only problem is that there are a number of people in Britain who are managing, without any great effort, to be in Boston without being in Massachusetts.
I admit it - I put in the idea that some view the "empty set version" as more canonical in order to appease the authors of the empty set page. I never had any particularly good reasons for believing it myself. --Ryguasu
A post of mine was correctly deleted from here, and I moved the discussion about it to User talk:Pashute#From Talk:Vacuous truth on my personal talk page.פשוט pashute ♫ (talk) 23:31, 13 December 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
A similar term for when the consequent is a tautology?
C) Yes, [anonymous], there is at least one thing wrong with this — starting with the "implicit statement" example of Boston (...is a city in Mass. ... and USA, Earth, Milky Way, etc. if one want's to get ana...err, 'rigorous'.) -- NOT being carried forward to the elephant-in-the-loaf-of-bread thing. Again, being rigorous: one could bake a really big loaf of bread. (For that matter, one could paint an elephant pink, but now we're mixing antecedent and consequent w.r.t. that example.) So discussing 'objects which do not (or cannot) exist' is at least on-the-face-of-it irrelevant — but it goes deeper than that.
By the definition given ("a logical statement is vacuously true if it is true but doesn't say anything"), some of the examples appear flawed.
For any integer x, if x > 5 then x > 3.[edit]
In addition to the need for adding back in some kind of explanation for why vacuous truth exits, this article in general seems like it may even need a complete re-write. Originally, I might have been willing to, but it seems to me that the community is too hostile to clarity for it to be worth me investing any more time to making these kinds of major contributions to Wikipedia articles (for example, I wrote pretty much the entire article on Trapezoidal Distribution recently, which used to be a much less useful stub). No wonder you people have trouble keeping new editors. If this is how the community acts, where even the most basic most fundamentally important aspects of what an article on a piece of subject matter needs to cover is viewed with contempt, then editing here on Wikipedia probably isn't a very good use of time, in most cases. Attempts at clarifying articles to even a basic standard of usability are frequently destroyed. Many of the deleted edits in many articles are actually better than the current versions of them. I see similar problems a lot on StackOverflow, where the moderators often "close as not constructive" some of the most useful threads (in fact, the majority of the most useful pages I've seen on StackOverflow were "closed as not constructive" by mods, as I seem to recall).
P→Q{\displaystyle P\to Q} means that if P is true, then Q should be true. If P is false, there are no restrictions to what Q is. So 'false implies anything' is true, because the implication doesn't say anything about what Q should be. Ok, this is informal talk. With deductive reasoning, together with it's assumptions about implication, disjunction, reductio ad absurdum and negation, you can proove that P→Q{\displaystyle P\to Q} is equivalent with ¬P∨Q{\displaystyle \neg P\vee Q}, or in words: (P implies Q) is equivalent with (Q or not P). This equivalence implies all vacuous thruths. Be aware, this implication does not hold in intuitionistic logic, which makes sense because vacuous thruths are not constructive at all. --Leoremy 15:07, 3 January 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply]
My own opinion on what the term vacuous truth is that the statement itself is in some way meaningless, essentially the implication/quantifing over the empty set example given in the article, and this is very much the common usage of the term within mathematics.
"the fact that the result of multiplying no numbers at all is 1 -- which is useful in a variety of mathematical fields"
Formally: B, which can only be true or false, is determined true, when there cannot be an A that would imply that B is false.
Another type of example, the elephant in the loaf type, calls into question whether any such statement is in fact true.
This is a Featured Article that doesn't have a picture. This would stop it appearing as a Main Page feature, for example. Is there a useful picture possible? A Venn diagram or similar? - David Gerard 23:25, 8 Jul 2004 (UTC)
Does anyone know of a term for a statement P->Q where Q is a tautology?I believe that if such term exists, it should be presented in this article.— Preceding unsigned comment added by 46.121.232.249 (talk) 12:41, 4 April 2014 (UTC)Reply[reply]
This is an insanely poor example.To use it as an example of a "Vacuous Truth", you have to completely ignore the meaning of the word "If", and how if/then operators actually function.The argument "If 2 > 5, then 2 > 3" is completely true, and undeniably logical.Because 2 is NOT greater than 5, so the argument stops there.There's no need to compare 2 to 3, because it's already failed the first conditional test.
2. Little to no explanation for why vacuous truth exists is given in the article, even though such information is readily available. Previous attempts by editors (dating back years) of explaining why vacuous truth has to apply have been deleted based on false/misguided notions by other editors that it amounts to "essay-like" content or "original research" etc. However, there is no other way to explain the reason why vacuous truth exists except by walking through the truth tables and illustrating that the other possible truth tables one might choose don't work, and doing so amounts to *direct evidence* rather than research. Direct logical proof of extremely simple facts like this should not require citation, especially in the math sections. It isn't original research when it is trivially obvious from the basic truth tables.
Your article on comparing intuition with formalism isn't in this vision directly, but it's certainly not antithetical to it.And an article of type 3 would include much of this; for example, Intuitionistic logic would explain why intuitionists and constructivists reject the law of the excluded middle.What I would really find neat, however, is a brief bit on this at the end of Logical disjunction, showing how intuitionists and constructivists differ from Aristotle on what "or" means, which goes a long way towards explaining why they reject that law.(Of course, this would not infect the beginning of the article, which should spend its time explaining that logicians' "or"s are inclusive and things like that.)— Toby 11:13 Sep 22, 2002 (UTC)
So it seems this article should be completely re-done to separate the mathematical definition of vacuous truth from the philosophical debate about it, of which I am rather ignorant.
I propose a more intuitive explanation using the terminology of the field but also shortly explaining each new term as we encounter it, which could, I hope, better convey the meaning of this term, to anyone studying philosophy, logic or math:
30Make page: false truth (= pseudotruth; a false truth, data or information)				1 comment
23empty element & infinite element in a set.				2 comments
[New author/comment break here (was hard to tell due to unsigned post(s) above and I'd rather take explicit blame (or credit) for what I say)]
The "inner statement" is trivial to prove, therefore the Law of Contrapositives states that the first ultimate vacuous truth is true.
In the example given at the top of the page, the sentence "her cellphone is off" implies that "she has a cellphone", or mathematically speaking, "exists (her cellphone) such that is_off(her cellphone)". This is clearly false, and so should not be a good example of a vacuous truth 176.12.196.63 (talk) 13:37, 10 November 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
realizing that the statement "if the teacher will give the exam on Friday, then we will know this fact come thursday night" is ESPECIALLY FALSE if the teacher is not giving the exam on Friday enables you to see the correct resolution to the hanging (non)-paradox.
(outdent) The thing is, I hear vacuous truth as a technical term, not necessarily the same as "truth in some sense vacuous", so whether all analytic truths are in some sense vacuous doesn't really enter into the discussion much. What I don't really get is, what's wrong with the term analytic truth, if that's what you mean? Is it just a way of saying "I want to talk about analytic truth but I don't want people to think I'm a Kantian"?
There exist at least one x with the property that x is a child; and
Quite possibly tgere is, for all we know. So, what's wrong with that?10:42, 9 May 2020 (UTC)— Preceding unsigned comment added by TheGrandRascal (talk • contribs)
Just because someone from years ago labeled the content as "essay-like" doesn't mean you should continue blindly assuming that it is. Including an explanation for the underlying why of vacuous truth is ESSENTIAL to the article being useful, just as H20 chemistry (the underlying why) would be essential to the article on water. The exact wording and title of the explanation can vary, but it DEFINITELY should be in the article in at least some form.
Confused mathematicians have called a "vacuous truth" any especially false statement that is not only false in its conclusion but especially false in that its premise is not even close to being an appropriate one to draw conclusions from.
Stop being so actively hostile to clarity and comprehension. There is a reason why the math pages on Wikipedia are regarded as the most incomprehensible subset of Wikipedia by the general public. The community has a culture of deliberate obscurity and systematic hostility to anything that is easy to understand. It's almost as if you don't want the public to understand, just so that you can feel smarter than them by pretending to know more by being deliberately obscure. Huge swathes of the math section of Wikipedia could use being re-written, but the editing culture is currently too hostile for any editors to do so. The community scares away all of the new editors who care about clarity, thus causing the articles to accumulate lots of cruft and superficial obscurantism that adds no value.
13How to prove all vacuous truths at the same time				3 comments
Speaking of distractions from the main (not Maine) point: yes! this example is tiresome and distracting. (Regrettably I just spent some time addressing it below on this Talk page — let me fix that here. ;-) RATHER than futzing around with taxonomy, referent, definition(s) of 'Boston', or even the entire example (look, 'Boston' is not the point, nor are context, implicit knowledge, culture, etc. — the point is that the referent of 'Boston' is "in" Massachusetts, dammit!, and everybody knows exactly what was meant by it) — let's change the example. I'm going to use "Salt Lake City", and "Utah". I'm not aware of any other referents of either which could possibly be conflated by a reasonable person. (Frankly, the whole 'ooooh, there's a Boston in England' was a little ... let's be polite and say 'fussy' ... anyhow.) One other point: making the link to the particular city entry to Boston on WP should've taken care of it. If not, we could use VIAFs. And then if need be cite that ... and down the rabbit hole we go. Which is why P → Q avoids this whole thing, and people should not get fussy about the human-convenient use of examples!— Preceding unsigned comment added by A Doon (talk • contribs) 18:59, 18 November 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I made the empty set example follow the same form as the others.That is, we never put in a contradiction for P, but instead an arbitrary statement that happened to be false.Similarly, we needn't put in the symbol {} for (what I have called) A, since we can use an arbitrary set that happens to be empty.That change, I just noticed, makes the only reason given for the primacy of the empty set example vanish; I'll remove that reason so as not to make the alleged supporters of that position look silly ^_^.But I'd still like to know if any actually exist, or if this was simply a misinterpretation of my poor redirecting skills.— Toby 10:28 Sep 28, 2002 (UTC)
I don't get the first two examples - in fact, I intuitively say the statements are false. "All elephants inside loaves of bread are pink" - why? If you said "...have ears", that would be true because all elephants - loaf-inhabiting or not - have ears. "All even primes >2 are multiples of 3" cannot be true because 3 itself does not satisfy the even requirement and any greater multiple of 3 does not satisfy the prime requirement. If I theoretically had an even prime >2 (not a multiple of two, an even number - I don't know how) it could not be divisible by 3.
likewise on Tuesday the students will wonder if their statement is false or ESPECIALLY false that, if the teacher does not give the exam today, it is either false or ESPECIALLY false that if he does not give it tomorrow (Wed), it is either false or ESPECIALLY false that if he does not give it the next day (Thur), he will give it Friday and yet surprise us."
Please consider and tell me what you think. And if you have a positive and simple example (which I cannot think of) in plain English I would be grateful.פשוט pashute ♫ (talk) 00:03, 14 December 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
That same error in logic is derived from educational sessions where it is assumed that numbers stand on their own, without the presence of operators. That is not true, a description of a mathematical process contains two element subsets, the set of numbers onto which it is applicable, AND the subset of operators which are applicable. Defacto, the operators themselves, are proper elements of that set, due the union of both into the set.
What do we call a true implication with a tautological consequence?
If a universal statement (a statement that can only be true or false) can be converted into a conditional (where A implies that B), it too, of course, can be determined to be true in the same way.
In formal logic and mathematics vacuous truth is defined as a conditional (a statement where A implies B), which is decided to be true when the opening premise of of any hypothesis leading to B cannot be false. In terms of formal logic: The truth of a conditional because the antecedent cannot be satisfied.
Article quality has become poor. Has inconsistencies and also needs explanation of why vacuous truth exists.
This is a humorous application of modus tollens that has nothing to do with vacuous truths: the speaker is supposed to infer that, since Grandpa Joe isn't a Vermicious Knid, then "she" must not be a lady. Although the two statements have no logical connection, we're supposed to infer the antecedent must be false, which is distinct from it being obviously false on its own ("if Uluru is in France") and rendering the consequent irrelevant. 31.169.57.1 (talk) 12:30, 9 November 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
From the article: Consider the implication "if I am in Boston, then I am in Massachusetts." [...] There is something inherently reasonable about this claim, even if one is not currently in Boston. [...] Thus at least one vacuously true statement seems to actually be true.
9What do we call a true implication with a tautological consequence?
Lots of links from articles on mathematics (and other subjects that use logic precisely) to logic articles, such as linking the first technical usage of "and". I include these links whenever I edit a math article, which I do often (that being my field).
See Wikipedia:Featured article removal candidates. --mav 21:40, 4 Sep 2004 (UTC)
And if anyone can give a good example of such a proof it would be nice to see in there too. Confusing Manifestation 18:30, 29 January 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Perhaps, however, there is some faint chance that me writing this here will reduce this toxic cultural trend at least somewhat. Maybe at least someone out there is sane. It's ludicrous that something so essential and fundamental to understanding a subject would be deleted. Wikipedia really has become a victim of its own culture and policies.
I removed the paragraph on the contrapositive. It tried to prove the truth of vacuous truths using the following argument
The only utility I can think of is that it saves us the bother of writing "except zero" repeatedly in our proofs.24.64.166.191 04:06, 6 Jun 2005 (UTC)
A similar term for when the consequent is a tautology?[edit]
28Article quality has become poor. Has inconsistencies and also needs explanation of why vacuous truth exists.
I hope nobody is hurt by my removing the whole "New York" and "crazy" discussion. I don't think it can convince anybody. AxelBoldt 00:25 Sep 30, 2002 (UTC)
Kjsharke: The main idea of that section is that it's clear what truth or falsity means for sentences of the form "whenever P(x) is true, Q(x) is true" even if it is a priori unclear for sentences of the form "if P is true, Q is true".[In mathematical notation, the complicated sentence "forall(x)(P(x) implies Q(x)" has clear meaning but the simpler sentence "if P then Q" is a priori ambiguous.]In the example you cited, "for all integers x, if x is even then x + 2 is even" is unambiguously true.So we should define "if 3 is even then 3+2 is even" to be true because it is a special case of, and thus a logical consequence of, a true sentence.In your proposed counterexample, "it is false that (if 3 is even then 3=4)" is not a logical consequence of any unambiguously true statement.Perhaps a better writer than I can explain this in the article.— Preceding unsigned comment added by 24.141.106.132 (talk) 21:37, 28 April 2012 (UTC)Reply[reply]
The vacuous truth article has become poor quality. At one time, this article was even a featured article (way back in January 2004, admittedly) but the long chain of edits since then have stagnated the article, causing its quality to not keep pace with other Wikipedia articles. There are at least two major problems with the article as it stands.
If any falsehood is true, then all truths are true.
Article quality has become poor. Has inconsistencies and also needs explanation of why vacuous truth exists.[edit]
True Story: I was once travelling from a location in Rhode Island to a party in the town of Scituate, Massachusetts.After getting directions from a friend, driving, and confirming that I had arrived in Scituate, I made the logical assumption that "the party is in Scituate, I am in Scituate, the party is in this town."Thirty minutes later I learned that I was in Scituate, Rhode Island.
28Article quality has become poor. Has inconsistencies and also needs explanation of why vacuous truth exists.				2 comments
In what sense is the concept of vacuously true discussed in this article "more limited" than the concept of tautological? Is the idea that all vacuously true statements are tautological? If so, could someone please flesh out the concept of tautological? If not, saying the one is a subset of the other seems almost misleading. --Ryguasu
Are the two concepts of "false implies anything" and "anything is true for the empty set" really that closely related? -- Tarquin
I could say, however, "All non-exponential functions that are their own integrals are also their own second derivatives" because that can be proven for any function f(x) - exponential or not. Here it is of no consequence that only e^x, an exponential function, is its own integral. The examples given cannot be proven true and have no basis for truth. Or, say, "Many of the registered users on the Pig Latin Wikipedia are hopeless Wikipediholics" can be assumed true because, despite there being no Pig Latin 'pedia, many users of other language Wikipedias (myself included) are hopeless Wikipediholics. But the two statements given are only absurd, as far as I can tell. --Geoffrey 01:04 24 Jun 2003 (UTC)
Is this true?Is it worth mentioning or discussing in this article?
In the spirit of that memory, I changed Boston/Massachusetts/Seattle to Massachusetts/North America/Europe to lessen ambiguity.I hope it meets approval. -- House of Scandal 14:57, 22 October 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Frankly, the whole example is a bit unwieldy (not surprisingly for elephants, painted or not, and possibly freakishly large loaves of bread. ;-) And all the talk about 'ontologically meaningless', implicit knowledge, 'objects which, etc. -- is getting down into the weeds of the projection into the 'real world' of the example statements' content and our experiential interpretation, assumptions, cultural knowledge, etc. In a world of tiny pink elephants, or just in talking to an Eskimo ... we'd get into subjective experience vs. formalism. We need to be able to replace tokens like pink, elephant, and loaf-of-bread with things that have definite formal relationships and (possible and/or definite) characteristics, before we can talk about true/false (in the propositional logic sense), let alone vacuous, meaningful, etc.
Boom, we have used a simple mathematical law to prove half of all the vacuous truths seconds after the other half. Any counters? --Ihope127 02:27, 15 August 2005 (UTC)Reply[reply]
And so on.Please update the whole article to reflect the correct resolution.You may also publish this correct resolution first.
It is ESPECIALLY false to say, then, in this case, the teacher must give it by thursday if the students have not had it by thursday, and so on, growing ever more especailly more especially false with each ESPECIALLY false especially bad deduction.
What do we call a true implication with a tautological consequence?[edit]
The "Intuition from Mathematical Arguments" section seems flawed.It says that the statement "For all integers x, if x is even, then x + 2 is even." is true, therefore the related vacuous statement "if 3 is even, then 3+2 is even" should be true too.Intuitively, I agree that the latter statement is true.
B) The Boston example opens an entire can of worms probably not relevant, or at least essential, here -- on a Talk page especially (ok, just go put in Massachusetts — on the actual page — don't delete it, at least not just for that. If the statement can be tweaked to serve the point, tweak it; if not, fix (or if that's not possible, then delete) the section). More generally, would you also need to put in '...U.S.A., Earth, Milky Way...' etc.? If not, why not? Where's the demarcation point on the spectrum of 'implicit knowledge'? Maybe that's a bit fussy/anal — but that's getting kind of 'meta'. >;-)
While it may seem counterproductive to bother about proving cases that don't actually exist, the use of a vacuous truth is helpful in proofs that seek to prove a property for a large range of cases, including the vacuous one. For example, proving a property of the empty set may be a much simpler proof than that for a nonempty one, and this can be used to start an induction to prove the property for a class of sets.
But both of these appeals to inuition have more problems than just disbelieving that F → p = T.For example, the New York argument works on the assumption that people want to reject "If I'm in New York State, then I'm in New York City".Yet that is precisely what we want the vast majority of humanity (residents of Buffalo being a principal exception) to accept!I myself am in California, so this statement is as true its converse.To avoid taking advantage of false assumptions (thereby reinforcing them), we need to focus on a specific person, such as one of the aforementiond residents of Buffalo.But when we do that, now people will start to doubt that "If I'm in New York City, then I'm in New York State" is really true, since it's only vacuously true for the Buffaloan.
The correct resolution for the conundrums raised in this article is that vacuous truths are especially false: they are false because they would be false, were the first part true the second part would not follow or be false, or the statement as a whole would be false but they are even more especially more so false because the first part is false.So not only is a vacuous truth false, it's ESPECIALLY false."Were present King of France goes prancing around naked in pubic, nobody would even bothers to take a photograph" is ESPECIALLY false because it is false enough to say that were the king of France to prance around naked in public nobody would even bother to take a photograph, but it is even MORE ESPECIALLY false because there is no present king of France.Thus the article should be written thusly:
Lots of articles on the basic features of logic, such as implication. Many of these already exist.
17Veracity of section "Arguments of the semantic "truth" of vacuously true logical statements"
But P is false and Q is false, so ~(P → Q) is ~(false → false), i.e. false. ~~(false → false) must therefore hold.
18recent (April) expansion to analytic truth in general				6 comments
is also true, apparently using the fact that an implication is automatically true if its conclusion is true. Some vacuous truths have a true conclusion however, so we use what we want to prove in the proof. Furthermore, the equivalence of every implication with its contrapositive is arguably much harder to justify than the truth of vacuous truths. AxelBoldt 13:20, 24 Nov 2003 (UTC)
The elephant example (and similarly constructed examples):"All elephants inside a loaf of bread are pink." Examples of this type rely upon the assumption that arbitrary characteristics may be meaningfully assigned to objects which do not (or cannot exist). This appears to be a type of fallacy, or paradox, in that it is inherently meaningless to assign definite properties to things which cannot by definition exist. It is arguable that an argument based upon an ontologically meaningless statement is neither true, nor false, but simply a construct of words with the superficial appearance of sense.
— Preceding unsigned comment added by 46.121.232.249 (talk) 12:41, 4 April 2014 (UTC)
Mathematicians need to be careful that when they make a general statement, such as "if x is a positive integer, then insofar as x is even, x + 2 is even", the last part can be ESPECIALLY FALSE.It is ESPECIALLY FALSE to say "insofar as x is even, x + 2 is even" when x is odd, for example when x is 7.
That mistake in logic is very similar to the assertion that division by zero, is the exception, not the rule, where in fact, multiplication is the exception, not the rule, the rule being that multiplication does NOT include zero nor infinite as elements of the set.
This is not a bad idea. I was thinking that it might be fruitful to move most of this page to a page about comparing our intuitive concepts of logical connectives and their formalized "equivalants". This isn't exactly what you're suggesting, but I imagine such an effort, combined with a historical perspective, would make everything here much richer. Do you have any particularly interesting historical references? Did the Greeks talk much about what (I suppose) you'd call non-material implication? --Ryguasu
The real way to deal with the statement is to use universal quantification to rephrase it as "For any person x, if x is in New York City, then x is in New York State".(Arguably, this is what the original phrasing about "being in New York city" was supposed to mean.)But now we're no longer dealing with any of the forms of vacuous truth discussed in the article.(Alternatively, we could keep my "I" and quantify over possible worlds, or speak of future probabilities, but that doesn't fit the templates any better.)My new mathematical example succumbs even more obviously to a missing quantifier, and I suspect that any mathematical example would do so, since it's hard for mathematics to avoid being precise.
This is quite possibly why mathematicians/logicians tend to mind their Ps and Qs. Or at least just state assumptions up front when talking about elephants and pinkness and bread loaves and qualia thereof. It's particularly interesting that you kind of do both of these -- implicitly w.r.t. 'ontologically meaningless', and defining objects' possibility of existence, and then x's and y's...! So - again, why not just fix the statements? 'Cause you kind of did...here....
Thus, if vacuously true statements are assumed to be false, it can be deduced (P → Q) & ~(P → Q). Contradiction.
How to prove all vacuous truths at the same time[edit]
A) "All unsigned Talk edits are suspect." (Or at least, a bit harder to parse who-said-what, esp. with a response that may or may not be in medias res of one author, or two....) >;-)
The reason for not allowing zero in multiplication, is because the inflection point of addition & subtraction is NOT the same as the inflection point for multiplication & division [0 for +-, 1 for */], therefore the intersection at that point does not exist for all elements consisting of (number;operator) pairs as elements, and the intersection at that point becomes the empty set [of which the infinite set is a particular result in inflection].— Preceding unsigned comment added by 201.209.217.235 (talk) 13:25, 8 February 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply]
If any falsehood is true, then all falsehoods are true.
Veracity of section "Arguments of the semantic "truth" of vacuously true logical statements"[edit]
A lot of the stuff towards the end of the article would work well in a page on material implication.That P → Q is true whenever P is false dates back to ancient Greece, when → is material implication; but it may not be true for other forms of implication.(Material implication, of course, is the implication of classical logic, what we normally use in mathematics.)One could argue that ∀ x∈{}, P(x) is vacuously true when we interpret ∀ x∈S, P(x) using material implication, but not using other forms of implication.(Unfortunately, I don't know anything about this stuff, but I'll have a lot to write all over Wikipedia when I learn it, which I intend to.)
The vacuous truth of a statement(meaning Truth from a Vacuum, truth obtained from something missing) is implied by the fact that one cannot even begin to consider the hypothesis as being wrong, since there is no way that would imply or lead to the conclusion being wrong.
While we're on the subject, who uses "vacuously true" as a synonym for "tautological".(The external reference mentions the possibility of such use, but even the person that mentions it there disparages it.)For example, I would call F → p vacuously true, and tautological if F is a contradiction (or more generally an explosive statement in Brazilian logic); but I'd call p → T trivially true instead, and tautological if T is a tautology.Thus, the notion of vacuous truth is quite independent of the notion of tautology; as you were quite right to point out above, neither is stronger or weaker than the other.And I would regard somebody that said that "If the sky is blue, then if the grass is green, then the grass is green" vacuously true as simply mistaken.— Toby 10:10 Sep 29, 2002 (UTC)
I added a sentence about how vacuously true statements can be used to mislead people. I feel that should be expanded on, and include quotes from famous movies (I would have included one but I couldn't think of any!). The reason is that these statements are very important when speaking, especially in situations such as giving testamony. 163.192.21.43 18:57, 21 July 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
25If she's an X, then I'm a Y				1 comment
Here's one that I claim to be a vacuous truth, since I have no children: "all my children are cats".
Is the statement in the first paragraph about even primes greater than 2 true in any sense?--rmhermen
The New York argument and its cousin seem quite tenuous to me.For the case of the commutative law (called "symmetric" in the article), this problem disappears if you assume that F → T = T, even if you still pick F → F = F.The other example didn't even make sense as written, since both statement simply said that I'm sane (given that 3 indeed equals 3).I put a new example in there.
13How to prove all vacuous truths at the same time
I don't know the answers to these questions yet.I actually hope to learn a lot of this over the course of the next school year, and if so I certainly intend to write it up for Wikipedia.I don't think that a lot of mathematicians appreciate the connections of foundations to philosophy, nor the somewhat arbitrary nature of choosing classical logic and set theory (only the axiom of choice is acknowledged widely).
You're right; I'll fix this.— Toby 09:59 Sep 29, 2002 (UTC)
(logic) A proposition which is true only because it is a conditional statement with a necessarily false premise, or which asserts a property of all elements of an empty domain of discourse.
This page was last edited on 16 January 2023, at 22:54.

