Explore Wikidata by looking at a featured showcase item for author Douglas Adams (Q42).
Learn how you can retrieve and use data from Wikidata.
2022-12-28: Lexeme L800000, for the Nynorsk (Q25164) word 'fotballturnering', meaning 'football tournament', is created.
Talk and ask questions on the Project chat, Telegram groups, or the live IRC chatconnect.
2022-11-09: The Wikidata development team talk about what they've been working on in the office hours at 17:00 UTC on Telegram.
2022-12-31: Lexeme L900000, for the Bokmål (Q25167) word 'urolog', meaning 'urologist', is created.
Work with other volunteers on a subject that interests you: join a WikiProject.
Check out Wikidata:Tools for some of our best tools and gadgets for using and exploring Wikidata.
As the world combats the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,Wikidata has been extremely useful in collecting and modelling useful information related to COVID-19, from relevant research articles and clinical trials, to epidemiological statistics of various regions, to lexemes for words and phrases commonly associated with the pandemic, and much more. A lot of work from WikiProject COVID-19 goes into creating and maintaining these items, bolstering Wikidata's role as a helpful open resource in the pandemic.
This page was last edited on 22 January 2023, at 14:51.
the free knowledge base with 102,150,210 data items that anyone can edit.
Wikidata acts as central storage for the structured data of its Wikimedia sister projects including Wikipedia, Wikivoyage, Wiktionary, Wikisource, and others.
Wikipedia – Encyclopedia    Wiktionary – Dictionary and thesaurus    Wikibooks – Textbooks, manuals, and cookbooks    Wikinews – News    Wikiquote – Collection of quotations    Wikisource – Library    Wikiversity – Learning resources    Wikivoyage – Travel guides    Wikispecies – Directory of species    Wikimedia Commons – Media repository    Incubator – New language versions    Meta-Wiki – Wikimedia project coordination    MediaWiki – Software documentation
2023-01-26: Lexeme L1000000, for the Nynorsk (Q25164) word 'etymologi', meaning 'etymology', is created.
1830 August 15,“Delta” [pseudonym],“The Probationer of Lochievale”, inThe Atheneum; or Spirit of the English Magazines, volume IV (Third Series), number 10, Boston, Mass.: John Cotton, […], OCLC 456669814, page 390, column 2:
Borrowed from Latin ēbullientem + English -ence (suffix meaning ‘having the state or condition of’). Ēbullientem is the accusative feminine or masculine singular of ēbulliēns (“boiling”), the present participle of ēbulliō (“to boil”) (from ē- (prefix meaning ‘out, away’) + bulliō (“to bubble; to boil”) (from bulla (“bubble; bubble-shaped object”), ultimately from Proto-Indo-European *bʰew- (“to blow; to inflate”))) + -ēns.[1]
1975,Wilfrid Mellers,“Heterophony and Improvisation: The New Orleans Jazz Band and King Oliver; Bessie Smith and the Urban Blues”, inMusic in a New Found Land: Themes and Developments in the History of American Music, New Brunswick, N.J.; London: Transaction Publishers, published 2011, →ISBN, page 281:But if jazz was in one sense a music of rejoicing, of liberated ebuillence, it was at the same time, even in New Orleans, still a music of protest: [...]
In the end, however, rebellion must exhaust itself. We grow weary of our paltry carnal transports, our ebulliences of defiance, our abortive expeditions to the frontiers of the respectable world.
When I first met him in the wee hours of the morning of this very day, I sensed he possessed an ebullience and intelligence that I had not encountered for the longest time.
a. 1835,Samuel Taylor Coleridge,“Notes and Lectures upon Shakespeare, and Some of the Old Poets and Dramatists,[…][Romeo and Juliet]”, in Mrs. H[enry] N[elson] Coleridge; [William Greenough Thayer] Shedd, editors, The Complete Works of Samuel Taylor Coleridge.[…]In Seven Volumes, volume IV (Lectures upon Shakespeare and Other Dramatists), New York, N.Y.: Harper & Brothers, […], published 1854, OCLC 863168801, page 112:
Compare “ebullience, n.”, in OED Online ⁠, Oxford, Oxfordshire: Oxford University Press, 1891; “ebullience, n.”, in Lexico, Dictionary.com; Oxford University Press, 2019–2022.
2010 June,Michael Salvatore,chapter 1, inBetween Boyfriends, New York, N.Y.: Kensington Books, →ISBN, page 3:When I first met him in the wee hours of the morning of this very day, I sensed he possessed an ebullience and intelligence that I had not encountered for the longest time.
2012,P. D. Smith,“History”, inCity: A Guidebook for the Urban Age, London; New York, N.Y.: Bloomsbury Publishing, →ISBN, page 64:Although it is invariably urban in its setting, Carnival is bigger than any one city or religion. Its ebullience and dynamism is a natural florescence of dense communities.
1999,Christine Rauchfuss Gray,“Afterword”, inWillis Richardson, Forgotten Pioneer of African-American Drama (Contributions in Afro-American and African Studies; no. 190), Westport, Conn.; London: Greenwood Press, →ISBN, ISSN 0069-9624, page 105:
A boiling or bubbling up; an ebullition.1832 May,[Thomas Carlyle],“Boswell’s Life of Johnson [book review]”, inFraser’s Magazine for Town and Country, volume V, number XXVIII, London: James Fraser […], OCLC 73210235, page 408, column 2:In conversation, doubtless, you may observe him [Samuel Johnson], on occasion, fighting as if for victory;—and must pardon these ebulliences of a careless hour, which were not without temptation and provocation.1878 November,Hugh Smith Carpenter,“Nature’s Travail and Testimony”, in I[saac] K[aufmann] Funk, editor, The Preacher and the Homiletic Monthly, volume III, number 2, New York, N.Y.; London: Funk & Wagnalls Company, OCLC 6283872, page 68, column 1:Now an irresistible agent like this [heat] is everywhere at work in the ranges of creaturehood. It lights the stars as its jets. It bulbs the sun body with its ebullience. None the less, it tints the delicate grass blades and flower petals.1973,Oliver Sacks,“The Aftermath of the Sleeping Sickness (1927–67)”, inAwakenings, London: Duckworth, →ISBN; republished New York, N.Y.: Vintage Books, September 1999, →ISBN:The early days of the epidemic had been a time of ebullition or ebullience, pathologically speaking, full of movements and tics, impulsions and impetuosities, manias and crises, ardencies and appetencies.2016,David Bentley Hart,“Charles Baudelaire: From within the Veil”, in Kenneth Oakes, editor, Christian Wisdom Meets Modernity (Illuminating Modernity), London; New York, N.Y.: T&T Clark, →ISBN, section IV, page 28:In the end, however, rebellion must exhaust itself. We grow weary of our paltry carnal transports, our ebulliences of defiance, our abortive expeditions to the frontiers of the respectable world.
1771,[Henry Mackenzie],“His Skill in Physiognomy”, inThe Man of Feeling, 2nd edition, London: Printed for T[homas] Cadell, […], OCLC 1103022800, page 94:
1 English1.1 Etymology1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Noun1.3.1 Derived terms1.3.2 Related terms1.3.3 Translations1.4 References
Sophia did not ſee his Behaviour in ſo very diſadvantageous a Light, and was perhaps more pleaſed with the violent Raptures of his Love [...] than ſhe was offended with the reſt; and indeed ſhe imputed the whole to the Extravagance, or rather Ebullience, of his Paſſion, and to the Openneſs of his Heart.
1832 May,[Thomas Carlyle],“Boswell’s Life of Johnson [book review]”, inFraser’s Magazine for Town and Country, volume V, number XXVIII, London: James Fraser […], OCLC 73210235, page 408, column 2:
The actual lives led by most African Americans were much different from the grinning masks and the ebullience displayed on stage.
[H]is friend, with great ebullience of paſſion, many praiſes of his own good play, and many maledictions on the power of chance, took up the cards, and threw them into the fire.
But if jazz was in one sense a music of rejoicing, of liberated ebuillence, it was at the same time, even in New Orleans, still a music of protest: [...]
The first ebullience of parental joy at his return, together with the congratulations of his affectionate brethren, having gradually subsided, few days were indeed allowed for idle recreation; and the same industrious course was persevered in.
1749,Henry Fielding,“The Escape of ’’Sophia’’”, inThe History of Tom Jones, a Foundling, volume IV, London: A[ndrew] Millar, […], OCLC 928184292, book X, pages 81–82:
Italian: ebollizione (it) f, bollori m pl, entusiasmo (it) m, esuberanza (it) f, vitalità (it) f
In conversation, doubtless, you may observe him [Samuel Johnson], on occasion, fighting as if for victory;—and must pardon these ebulliences of a careless hour, which were not without temptation and provocation.
Now an irresistible agent like this [heat] is everywhere at work in the ranges of creaturehood. It lights the stars as its jets. It bulbs the sun body with its ebullience. None the less, it tints the delicate grass blades and flower petals.
1771,[Henry Mackenzie],“His Skill in Physiognomy”, inThe Man of Feeling, 2nd edition, London: Printed for T[homas] Cadell, […], OCLC 1103022800, page 94:[H]is friend, with great ebullience of paſſion, many praiſes of his own good play, and many maledictions on the power of chance, took up the cards, and threw them into the fire.
1830 August 15,“Delta” [pseudonym],“The Probationer of Lochievale”, inThe Atheneum; or Spirit of the English Magazines, volume IV (Third Series), number 10, Boston, Mass.: John Cotton, […], OCLC 456669814, page 390, column 2:The first ebullience of parental joy at his return, together with the congratulations of his affectionate brethren, having gradually subsided, few days were indeed allowed for idle recreation; and the same industrious course was persevered in.
2010 June,Michael Salvatore,chapter 1, inBetween Boyfriends, New York, N.Y.: Kensington Books, →ISBN, page 3:
1999,Christine Rauchfuss Gray,“Afterword”, inWillis Richardson, Forgotten Pioneer of African-American Drama (Contributions in Afro-American and African Studies; no. 190), Westport, Conn.; London: Greenwood Press, →ISBN, ISSN 0069-9624, page 105:The actual lives led by most African Americans were much different from the grinning masks and the ebullience displayed on stage.
^Compare “ebullience, n.”, in OED Online ⁠, Oxford, Oxfordshire: Oxford University Press, 1891; “ebullience, n.”, in Lexico, Dictionary.com; Oxford University Press, 2019–2022.
The early days of the epidemic had been a time of ebullition or ebullience, pathologically speaking, full of movements and tics, impulsions and impetuosities, manias and crises, ardencies and appetencies.
1749,Henry Fielding,“The Escape of ’’Sophia’’”, inThe History of Tom Jones, a Foundling, volume IV, London: A[ndrew] Millar, […], OCLC 928184292, book X, pages 81–82:Sophia did not ſee his Behaviour in ſo very diſadvantageous a Light, and was perhaps more pleaſed with the violent Raptures of his Love [...] than ſhe was offended with the reſt; and indeed ſhe imputed the whole to the Extravagance, or rather Ebullience, of his Paſſion, and to the Openneſs of his Heart.
2016,David Bentley Hart,“Charles Baudelaire: From within the Veil”, in Kenneth Oakes, editor, Christian Wisdom Meets Modernity (Illuminating Modernity), London; New York, N.Y.: T&T Clark, →ISBN, section IV, page 28:
2012,P. D. Smith,“History”, inCity: A Guidebook for the Urban Age, London; New York, N.Y.: Bloomsbury Publishing, →ISBN, page 64:
1922 April,Paul Rosenfeld,“The Water-Colours of John Marin: A Note on the Work of the First American Painter of the Day”, in John Peale Bishop, editor, Vanity Fair, volume 18, number 2, New York, N.Y.: Vanity Fair Publishing Company, OCLC 423870134, page 48, column 2:About John Marin, there move sad, disgruntled beings, full of talk and lamentations. [...] They bewail the fact that in America, soil is poor and unconducive to growth, and men remain unmoved by growing green. But Marin persists, and what ebullience and good humour, in the rocky ungentle loam?
1832 May,[Thomas Carlyle],“Boswell’s Life of Johnson [book review]”, inFraser’s Magazine for Town and Country, volume V, number XXVIII, London: James Fraser […], OCLC 73210235, page 408, column 2:In conversation, doubtless, you may observe him [Samuel Johnson], on occasion, fighting as if for victory;—and must pardon these ebulliences of a careless hour, which were not without temptation and provocation.
1878 November,Hugh Smith Carpenter,“Nature’s Travail and Testimony”, in I[saac] K[aufmann] Funk, editor, The Preacher and the Homiletic Monthly, volume III, number 2, New York, N.Y.; London: Funk & Wagnalls Company, OCLC 6283872, page 68, column 1:Now an irresistible agent like this [heat] is everywhere at work in the ranges of creaturehood. It lights the stars as its jets. It bulbs the sun body with its ebullience. None the less, it tints the delicate grass blades and flower petals.
About John Marin, there move sad, disgruntled beings, full of talk and lamentations. [...] They bewail the fact that in America, soil is poor and unconducive to growth, and men remain unmoved by growing green. But Marin persists, and what ebullience and good humour, in the rocky ungentle loam?
Although it is invariably urban in its setting, Carnival is bigger than any one city or religion. Its ebullience and dynamism is a natural florescence of dense communities.
This page was last edited on 16 January 2023, at 23:05.
1973,Oliver Sacks,“The Aftermath of the Sleeping Sickness (1927–67)”, inAwakenings, London: Duckworth, →ISBN; republished New York, N.Y.: Vintage Books, September 1999, →ISBN:
2016,David Bentley Hart,“Charles Baudelaire: From within the Veil”, in Kenneth Oakes, editor, Christian Wisdom Meets Modernity (Illuminating Modernity), London; New York, N.Y.: T&T Clark, →ISBN, section IV, page 28:In the end, however, rebellion must exhaust itself. We grow weary of our paltry carnal transports, our ebulliences of defiance, our abortive expeditions to the frontiers of the respectable world.
1922 April,Paul Rosenfeld,“The Water-Colours of John Marin: A Note on the Work of the First American Painter of the Day”, in John Peale Bishop, editor, Vanity Fair, volume 18, number 2, New York, N.Y.: Vanity Fair Publishing Company, OCLC 423870134, page 48, column 2:
1975,Wilfrid Mellers,“Heterophony and Improvisation: The New Orleans Jazz Band and King Oliver; Bessie Smith and the Urban Blues”, inMusic in a New Found Land: Themes and Developments in the History of American Music, New Brunswick, N.J.; London: Transaction Publishers, published 2011, →ISBN, page 281:
1973,Oliver Sacks,“The Aftermath of the Sleeping Sickness (1927–67)”, inAwakenings, London: Duckworth, →ISBN; republished New York, N.Y.: Vintage Books, September 1999, →ISBN:The early days of the epidemic had been a time of ebullition or ebullience, pathologically speaking, full of movements and tics, impulsions and impetuosities, manias and crises, ardencies and appetencies.
1878 November,Hugh Smith Carpenter,“Nature’s Travail and Testimony”, in I[saac] K[aufmann] Funk, editor, The Preacher and the Homiletic Monthly, volume III, number 2, New York, N.Y.; London: Funk & Wagnalls Company, OCLC 6283872, page 68, column 1:
...that Road 32-B was the route of extraction for SPARTAN-II Blue Team on Victoria during their raid on Camp New Hope?
686 Ebullient Prism uses his integrated beam weapon to destroy Reff.
...that although their storylines and universes are separate, Halo contains many references to Bungie 's 1994 Mac FPS Marathon?
In 2552, Prism's Gatherers had obtained a member of a respective species that had crashed on the moon, which included Reff 'Talamee, a Sangheili; Black-One, a human; an Unggoy and a Mgalekgolo. Prism introduced himself to the subjects and explained that they were to be vivisected and catalogued for study to determine if any of them possessed immunity to the Flood. The Mgalekgolo was vivisected first; although the species was found to be immune to the Flood, Prism stated that they lacked mass and cognitive capability to "satisfy protocol". Prism was about to vivisect Black-One when Reff insisted that the Spartan did not believe in the Great Journey. Prism, interested in Reff's garbled understanding of Forerunner protocol, vivisected the Unggoy instead.[1]
686 Ebullient Prism shares many similarities with 343 Guilty Spark, the Monitor of Installation 04.
Unlike most monitors, Ebullient Prism has a much more hostile demeanor, shown by his sadistic pleasure in vivisecting his prisoners.
...that the Forerunners were capable of transcribing organic minds in various different substrates?
Like Guilty Spark, Ebullient Prism has no regard for a being's consent to inspection.
686 Ebullient Prism was a Forerunner AI construct, and the Monitor of Line Installation 1-4. Prism's functions included collecting and inspecting any specimens captured for evidence of immunity to infestation by the Flood. Assistance from the specimen when inspecting was not required to be voluntary according to protocol.[1]
Back in the physical world, Black-One insisted on Prism putting her out of her misery, which the Monitor was gladly willing to accomplish. However, Black-One used her helmet to deflect a laser right at her spare ammo pack sitting on a Gatherer, causing it to explode and crash into her cell. She then used the Gatherer's weapon to free Reff. Prism attempted to stop them, only for One to fire at him, forcing Prism to withdraw from Victor's armor. Summoning Sentinels to his aid, Prism chased the Spartan and Sangheili throughout the Installation. One was able to destroy the Sentinels, only for Prism to shoot her down. Reff, taking her weapon, took out Prism's eye, declaring him to be a "false Oracle". They then evaded the Monitor in the Installation's control center.[3] Prism, assembling swarms of Sentinels and Gatherers, soon found them and demanded that they step away from the controls. He vaporized Reff from the legs up, as he was proclaiming about how he was the "Chosen One". Team Black reunited and were able to push Prism back, before using the Installation's main weapon to vaporize the Monitor.[4]
...that the BR55 battle rifle is replaced by the Suppressed SMG in Halo 3: ODST?
Before Prism could continue, he was alerted to the intrusion of the rest of Team Black and Covenant forces, who had formed a temporary alliance to rescue their comrades.[2] Prism remotely hacked into Victor-101's helmet and tricked him into believing that his fellow teammates are Covenant attackers. Prism also sent out a false distress signal to Black-Two, who rushed from the remains of Long Time Coming to the Line Installation, before tricking Victor into shooting her. He also infiltrated Iona's systems through her unsecured "ghost" interface, intending to completely destroy her. Prism chased Iona through Victor's MJOLNIR armor systems, using virtual weapons against her. However, Prism became distracted with a visual depiction of Team Black's training days, composed of data from Victor's partially altered logs.[3]
...that the SPARTAN-IV supersoldiers serve in a dedicated military branch named Spartan Operations?
After being severely damaged by Reff using a Sentinel beam, Ebullient Prism quoted Guilty Spark; "My eye! Do you mean to blind me?" in a similar situation.[3]
