Alternatively, you can visit the Main Page or read more information about this type of error.
We could not find the above page on our servers.
"I found", said he, "that I was considered by Harville an engaged man! That neither Harville nor his wife entertained a doubt of our mutual attachment. I was startled and shocked. To a degree, I could contradict this instantly; but, when I began to reflect that others might have felt the same—her own family, nay, perhaps herself, I was no longer at my own disposal. I was hers in honour if she wished it. I had been unguarded. I had not thought seriously on this subject before. I had not considered that my excessive intimacy must have its danger of ill consequence in many ways; and that I had no right to be trying whether I could attach myself to either of the girls, at the risk of raising even an unpleasant report, were there no other ill effects. I had been grossly wrong, and must abide the consequences"./ He found too late, in short, that he had entangled himself (final version).
2017: Persuasion, directed by Jeff James, who adapted it with James Yeatman, ran at the Royal Exchange Theatre in Manchester in May and June.[54] This adaptation ran at Alexandra Palace Theatre in April 2022.[55]
2010: Persuasion, a musical drama adapted from the novel by Barbara Landis, using music from the period selected from Austen's own writings. It was performed by Chamber Opera Chicago first in 2011,[46] again in 2013,[47] and subsequently performed by the same company in New York as well as several cities in the United Kingdom in 2013–2015.[48]
Parrill, Sue (11 April 2002). Jane Austen on Film and Television: A Critical Study of the Adaptations. McFarland. ISBN 978-0-7864-1349-2.
2012: Persuasion, adapted for the theatre by Jon Jory, world-premiere at Onstage Playhouse in Chula Vista, California.[52]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Beckford, Grania (1981), Virtues and Vices: A Delectable Rondelet of Love and Lust in Edwardian Times, St. Martin's Press, ISBN 978-0312849542
^ Brown, Julia Prewitt (1979). Jane Austen's Novels: Social Change and Literary Form. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-47172-6.
^ Love and Friendship - Episode 105 - Classic Alice - Persuasion #Christmas #HolidaySeason, retrieved 14 June 2022
Persuasion has received highly intelligent criticism in recent years, after a long period of comparative neglect, and the lines of investigation have followed Virginia Woolf's suggestive comments. Critics have been concerned with the "personal" quality of the novel and the problems it poses for biographical interpretation; with the obvious unevenness in narrative structure; with the "poetic" use of landscape, and the hovering influence of Romantic poetry; with the pervasive presence of Anne Elliot's consciousness; with new effects in style and syntax; with the "modernity" of Anne Elliot, an isolated personality in a rapidly changing society.
^ Luscombe, Tim (2011). Persuasion by Jane Austen in a new adaptation. London: Oberon Books. ISBN 978-1-84943-193-4. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
"Spies and Spas in Saratoga: JASNA-NY Takes to the Road"
Anne and Wentworth, once married, do not become part of the land-owning gentry; Austen writes that the two were destined for "settled life."[21] According to Irvine, the sailors in Persuasion are the "most subversive characters" in all of Austen's books, as they possess "national importance" only by the virtue of their role in defeating Napoleon and do not own land or ask for social recognition from the gentry.[21] The Royal Navy in Persuasion is a meritocracy where one rises up via one's talents, not via birth and land, which makes Persuasion the most radical of all of Austen's novels, according to Irvine.[21]
Fanny ultimately rejected her suitor and married someone else after her aunt's death.[2]: x–xv
^ "Jane Austen's Persuasion | New Play by Sarah Rose Kearns". Jane Austen's Persuasion. Retrieved 8 October 2017.
Media related to Persuasion by Jane Austen at Wikimedia Commons
Wood, Dean (13 April 2022). "Review: Persuasion, Alexandra Palace Theatre". Retrieved 19 April 2022.
Hopkins, Lisa, ed. (2018). After Austen: Reinventions, Rewritings, Revisitings. London: Palgrave Macmillan. p. 281. ISBN 978-3-319-95893-4.
^ "Spring Reads - HB Playwrights New Plays in Process - HB Studio". HB Studio. 27 March 2017. Retrieved 8 October 2017.
^ a b c Beer, Gillian (1998). Introduction. Persuasion. By Austen, Jane. London: Penguin Classics. ISBN 978-0-140-43467-5.
8Adaptations											Toggle Adaptations subsection																					8.1Film																											8.2Digital Media																											8.3Television																											8.4Theatre																											8.5Radio																											8.6Literature using themes or characters of the novel
The book's title is not Jane Austen's but her brother Henry's, who named it after her early death. There is no known source that documents what Austen intended to call her novel. Whatever her intentions might have been, Austen spoke of the novel as The Elliots, according to family tradition, and some critics believe that is probably the title she planned for it.[7]
^ "Jane Austen's Persuasion, Newly Adapted as a Musical – Discount Tickets at Royal George Theater". Style Chicago. September 2013. Archived from the original on 17 September 2016. Retrieved 8 September 2016.
Price, Sarah (2015), Second Chances: An Amish Retelling of Jane Austen's Persuasion (The Amish Classics), Charisma Media, ISBN 978-1-62998-239-7
^ "Persuasion (director Jeff James)". BSECS Criticks Reviews. 5 July 2017. Retrieved 8 April 2019.
2022: Persuasion, a Netflix film starring Dakota Johnson as Anne and Cosmo Jarvis as Captain Wentworth.[39]
^ Kary, David (7 July 2019). "PERSUASION @ THE GENESIANS". Sydney Arts Guide. Archived from the original on 7 July 2019. Retrieved 9 July 2019.
In the introduction to the Penguin Classics edition, Persuasion is called a great Cinderella story. It features a heroine who is generally unappreciated and to some degree exploited by those around her; a handsome prince who appears on the scene but seems more interested in the "more obvious" charms of others; a moment of realisation; and a happy ending. It has been said that it is not that Anne is unloved, but rather that those around her no longer see her clearly: she is such a fixed part of their lives that her likes and dislikes, wishes and dreams, are no longer considered, even by those who claim to value her, like Lady Russell.[citation needed]
^ a b c Pinch 1998, p. 98 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFPinch1998 (help)
1971: Persuasion, ITV miniseries starring Ann Firbank as Anne and Bryan Marshall as Captain Wentworth.[41]
Dibdin, Thom (7 August 2015). "Jane Austen's Persuasion". All Edinburgh Theatre. Retrieved 8 September 2016.
Irvine writes of the differences between the Elliot sisters and Austen's other sibling relationships. In contrast to the Dashwood sisters (Sense and Sensibility) and the Bennet sisters (Pride and Prejudice), Anne is not close to her sisters.[29]
Pinch writes that Persuasion has been called the most lyrical of Austen's novels; "Its emphasis on memory and subjectivity has been called Wordsworthian, its emotional tone has been likened to Shelley and Keats, and its epistemological strategies compared to Coleridge's conversation poems. Its modernity has been hinted through allusions to the lyric fiction of Virginia Woolf."[13]
Lady Dalrymple – A viscountess, cousin to Sir Walter. She occupies an exalted position in society by virtue of wealth and rank. Sir Walter and Elizabeth are eager to be seen at Bath in the company of this great relation and her daughter, Miss Carteret, at a time when their own social status is in question.
^ Morgan, Susan (15 February 1980). In the Meantime: Character and Perception in Jane Austen's Fiction. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-53763-4.
The story concerns Anne Elliot, an Englishwoman of 27 years, whose family moves to lower their expenses and reduce their debt by renting their home to an admiral and his wife. The wife's brother, Captain Frederick Wentworth, was engaged to Anne in 1806, but the engagement was broken when Anne was persuaded by her friends and family to end their relationship. Anne and Captain Wentworth, both single and unattached, meet again after a separation lasting almost eight years, setting the scene for many humorous encounters as well as a second, well-considered chance at love and marriage for Anne.
Morgan, Susan (15 February 1980). In the Meantime: Character and Perception in Jane Austen's Fiction. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-53763-4.
In his essay "Persuasion: forms of estrangement", A Walton Litz summarises the issues critics have raised with Persuasion as a novel:[8]
Elizabeth Elliot – The eldest and most beautiful of Sir Walter's three daughters, who appears to be his favourite. Elizabeth encourages her father's imprudent spending and extravagance and like her father, she has a tendency to be narcissistic herself, while she herself desires marriage after spending most of her young life managing the family home in her mother's place. She and her father regard Anne as inconsequential, wanting to ensure only that she marries a man who can enhance the Elliot family's social standing.
American literary historian A Walton Litz has emphasized the special quality of Persuasion among Austen's novels, as it was written over a relatively narrow space of two or three years from start to finish. Almost all of Austen's novels were written in the form of first drafts (now lost) from before 1800, over a decade before their first publication in the last years of Austen's life. Since Persuasion was written over such a narrow time frame, Litz was able to locate and publish Austen's early handwritten drafts as she refined the text of the novel into its final published form. Persuasion is unique among Austen's novels in allowing such a close inspection, as recorded by Litz, of her editorial prowess in revising and enhancing early drafts of her own writing.[8] Litz, citing the research of Norman Page, gives an example of Austen's meticulous editing by excerpting a passage of Austen's cancelled Chapter Ten of the novel and comparing it to the revised version. In its original version, the manuscript stated:
Kelly, Gary (1997). "Religion and Politics".In Copeland, Edward; McMaster, Juliet (eds.). The Cambridge Companion to Jane Austen. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-49517-2.
Sophia Croft – Sister of Captain Wentworth and wife of Admiral Croft for the last fifteen years. She is 38 years old. She offers Anne an example of a strong-minded woman who has married for love instead of money and who has a good life as a naval wife.
Dev, Sonali (2020), Recipe for Persuasion, Rajes, HarperCollins, ISBN 978-0-06-283907-7, retrieved 18 November 2020
Miss Carteret – Daughter of Lady Dalrymple, who is always in tow behind the viscountess. Considered by Anne and others to be undeserving and very ordinary in intelligence and social graces. Elizabeth, who is more socially motivated, tolerates her company.
Charles Musgrove Jr. – Son of Charles Musgrove Sr. Husband of Mary and heir to the Musgrove estate. He first proposes to Anne, who says no as she does not truly love him. He marries Mary about five years before the story opens, and they have two sons. He is a cheerful man, who loves hunting and easily endures his wife's faults.
2018: Persuasion: a new play by Sarah Rose Kearns, adapted from the novel by Jane Austen;[56] in development 2016–2018 with assistance from the HB Playwrights Foundation[57] and the Jane Austen Society of North America New York Metropolitan Region.[58]
1995: Persuasion, released in the United Kingdom as a made-for-television film starring Amanda Root as Anne and Ciarán Hinds as Captain Wentworth. This was released as a theatrical film in United States movie theatres by Sony Pictures Classics.[41]
Wiltshire, John (1997). "Mansfield Park, Emma, Persuasion".In Copeland, Edward; McMaster, Juliet (eds.). The Cambridge Companion to Jane Austen. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-49517-2.
Pinch, Adela (Spring 1993). "Lost in a Book: Jane Austen's "Persuasion". Studies in Romanticism. 32 (1): 97–117. doi:10.2307/25600997. JSTOR 25600997. S2CID 171375241.
The Musgroves visit Bath to purchase wedding clothes for Louisa and Henrietta, both soon to marry. Captains Wentworth and Harville encounter them and Anne at the Musgroves' hotel in Bath, where Wentworth overhears Anne and Harville discussing the relative faithfulness of men and women in love. Deeply moved by what Anne says about women not giving up their feelings of love even when all hope is lost, Wentworth writes her a note declaring his feelings for her. Outside the hotel, Anne and Wentworth reconcile, affirm their love for each other, and renew their engagement. William leaves Bath; Mrs Clay soon follows him and becomes his mistress, making it more likely that he will inherit Kellynch Hall. Lady Russell admits she was wrong about Wentworth and befriends the new couple. Once Anne and Wentworth have married, Wentworth helps Mrs Smith recover the remaining assets that William had kept from her. Anne settles into her new life as the wife of a Navy captain.
^ Luscombe, Tim (2011). "Persuasion by Jane Austen". Salisbury UK. Retrieved 11 August 2016.
^ a b "Review: Persuasion makes music out of Austen's melancholy". Seattle Times. 24 July 2017. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
A recurring debate in 18th-century Britain concerned the power of books over women: were women more susceptible to the power of reading than men, and if so, was reading a benign or malign influence on them?[12] Austen first addressed this question in Northanger Abbey, in which reading Gothic books has comic effects for Catherine Morland, and also gives her a more acute sense of reality and people.[12] The American scholar Adela Pinch writes that Austen returns to this theme in Persuasion but in a more mature and probing manner, as Persuasion is concerned with "what it feels like to be a reader. It does so by connecting this feeling to what the presence of other people feel like. It explores, that is, the influence reading can have on one's mind by comparing it to the influence of one person's mind over another's."[12]
Captain Harville – A friend of Captain Wentworth. Wounded two years previously, he is slightly lame. Wentworth has not seen his friend since the time of that injury, and is eager to reconnect. Harville and his family are settled in nearby Lyme for the winter. His wife tends to Louisa, and the children come to stay with the Musgroves for the Christmas holiday.
1986: BBC Radio 4 dramatised full-cast adaptation in three parts with Juliet Stevenson as Anne and Tim Brierley as Captain Wentworth.[59]
2015: Reading of Persuasion at 5th Avenue Theatre's Festival of New Musicals.[53]
Anne and the young adults of the Uppercross family accompany Captain Wentworth on a visit to see two of his fellow officers, Captains Harville and Benwick, in the coastal town of Lyme Regis. Captain Benwick is in mourning over the death of his fiancée, Captain Harville's sister, and he appreciates Anne's sympathy and understanding, helped by their mutual admiration for the Romantic poets. Anne attracts the attention of Mr William Elliot, her cousin and a wealthy widower who is heir to Kellynch Hall despite having broken ties with her father years earlier. On the last morning of the visit, the youthful Louisa sustains a serious concussion at the sea wall while under Captain Wentworth's supervision. Anne coolly organizes the others to summon assistance. Wentworth is impressed with Anne's quick thinking and cool-headedness, but feels guilty about his actions with Louisa, causing him to re-examine his feelings for Anne. Louisa, due to her delicate condition, is forced to recover at the Harvilles' home in Lyme for months. Captain Benwick, who was a guest as well, helps in Louisa's recovery by attending and reading to her.
Luscombe, Tim (2011). "Persuasion by Jane Austen". Salisbury UK. Retrieved 11 August 2016.
Jane Austen on Film and Television: A Critical Study of the Adaptations
^ Bell, Terena (20 January 2021). "On the Never-Ending Barrage of Austen Adaptations". Medium. Retrieved 22 January 2021.
Admiral Croft – A good-natured, plainspoken tenant at Kellynch Hall and brother-in-law of Captain Wentworth. In his naval career, he was a captain when he married, present at the major Battle of Trafalgar in 1805, then assigned to the East Indies, and now holds the rank of rear admiral of the white.
[Wentworth] found that he was considered by his friend Harville an engaged man. The Harvilles entertained not a doubt of a mutual attachment between him and Louisa; and though this to a degree was contradicted instantly, it yet made him feel that perhaps by her family, by everybody, by herself even, the same idea might be held, and that he was not free in honour, though if such were to be the conclusion, too free alas! in heart. He had never thought justly on this subject before, and he had not sufficiently considered that his excessive intimacy at Uppercross must have its danger of ill consequence in many ways; and that while trying whether he could attach himself to either of the girls, he might be exciting unpleasant reports if not raising unrequited regard./ He found too late that he had entangled himself, (cancelled version, as published in Chapman's edition of Austen).
Irvine, Robert P (2005). Jane Austen. London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-31434-3.
In a letter to her niece Fanny Knight in March 1817, Austen wrote that she had a novel "which may appear about a twelvemonth hence."[6] John Murray published Persuasion together with Northanger Abbey in a four-volume set, printed in December 1817 but dated 1818. The first advertisement appeared on 17 December 1817. The Austen family retained copyright of the 1,750 copies, which sold rapidly.[6] The later editions of both were published separately.
1972: Persuasión, a ten-part Spanish miniseries by TVE starring Maite Blasco as Ana (Anne) and Juan Diego as Michael Trent (Captain Wentworth).[42][43]
LeFaye, Deirdre (2003). Jane Austen: The World of Her Novels. London: Francis Lincoln. ISBN 978-0-7112-2278-6.
In her 1980 book on Austen, Susan Morgan challenges Litz on calling Persuasion a novel showing Austen's assimilation of the new romantic poetry. Morgan notes Litz's comment on "the deeply physical impact of Persuasion"; he remarks that "Mansfield Park is about the loss and return of principles, Emma about the loss and return of reason, Persuasion about the loss and return of 'bloom'." According to Morgan, Litz "acknowledges the crudeness of these formulations, and we recognize that he is attempting to discuss a quality of the novel that is hard to describe. But such summaries, even tentatively offered, only distort. The few brief nature scenes in Persuasion (and they are brief, out of all proportion to the commentary on them), the walk to Winthrop and the environs of Pinny and Lyme, are certainly described with sensibility and appreciation. And in Anne's mind they are just as certainly bound up with 'the sweets of poetical despondence'."[9]
John Wiltshire notes that Wentworth is a man of action as opposed to words, which makes Anne the novel's only self-reflective character.[24] Anne becomes steadily more assertive, telling Mr Elliot at one point, "My idea of good company, Mr Elliot, is the company of clever, well-informed people, who have a great deal of conversation; that is what I call good company."[30]
Persuasion is the last novel completed by Jane Austen. It was published on December 20, 1817, along with Northanger Abbey, six months after her death, although the title page is dated 1818.[1]
Jane Austen's anxieties about persuasion and responsibility are here passionately expressed. She refuses to become part of the machinery with which Fanny is manoeuvring herself into forming the engagement. To be the stand-in motive for another's actions frightens her. Yet Jane Austen cannot avoid the part of persuader, even as dissuader.
"Jane Austen's Persuasion | New Play by Sarah Rose Kearns". Jane Austen's Persuasion. Retrieved 8 October 2017.
Captain Frederick Wentworth – A naval officer, about 31 years old, who proposed to Anne some seven years earlier. At the time, he had no fortune and uncertain prospects, but owing to his achievements in the Napoleonic Wars, he advanced in rank and in fortunes. He is one of Sophia Croft's two brothers. He gained his step to post Captain, and gained wealth amounting to about £25,000 from prize money awarded for capturing enemy vessels. He is an eminently eligible bachelor, eager to settle down with a good woman.
The story begins seven years after the broken engagement of Anne Elliot to Frederick Wentworth: Having just turned nineteen years old, Anne fell in love and had accepted a proposal of marriage from Wentworth, then a young and undistinguished naval officer. Wentworth was considered clever, confident and ambitious, but his low social status made Anne's friends and family view him as an unsuitable partner. Anne's father, Sir Walter Elliot, and her older sister, Elizabeth, maintained that Wentworth was no match for a woman of Kellynch Hall, the family estate. Furthermore, Lady Russell, a distant relative whom Anne considers to be a second mother to her after her own died, also saw the relationship as imprudent for one so young and persuaded Anne to break off the engagement. Sir Walter, Elizabeth, and Lady Russell are the only family members who knew about the short engagement, as Anne's younger sister Mary was away at school.
In her book on Austen, the critic Julia Prewitt Brown finds significance in comparing Persuasion to Emma with regard to Austen's ability to vary her narrative technique. Brown writes:
^ Dibdin, Thom (7 August 2015). "Jane Austen's Persuasion". All Edinburgh Theatre. Retrieved 8 September 2016.
Louisa Musgrove – Second sister of Charles Musgrove, aged about 19. Louisa is a high-spirited young lady who has returned with her sister from school. She likes Captain Wentworth and seeks his attention. She is ultimately engaged to Captain Benwick after recovering from her serious fall. Her brother Charles notices that she is less lively after suffering the concussion.
1960: Persuasion, BBC miniseries starring Daphne Slater as Anne and Paul Daneman as Captain Wentworth.[41]
^ Hopkins, Lisa, ed. (2018). After Austen: Reinventions, Rewritings, Revisitings. London: Palgrave Macmillan. p. 281. ISBN 978-3-319-95893-4.
"Spring Reads - HB Playwrights New Plays in Process - HB Studio"
"Jane Austen's Persuasion, Newly Adapted as a Musical – Discount Tickets at Royal George Theater"
Mary Musgrove – The youngest daughter of Sir Walter, married to Charles Musgrove. Mary is attention-seeking, always looking for ways she might have been slighted, and often claims illness when she is upset. She is just as obsessed with social standing and wealth as the rest of her family, and opposes sister-in-law Henrietta's interest in marrying a cousin, Charles Hayter, who Mary feels is unworthy of being married to a woman of means.
Love and Friendship - Episode 105 - Classic Alice - Persuasion #Christmas #HolidaySeason, retrieved 14 June 2022
Sir Walter Elliot, Bt. – A vain and self-satisfied baronet. Sir Walter is a man whose extravagance since the death of his prudent wife thirteen years before puts his family into dire financial straits, forcing him to lease his estate, Kellynch Hall, to Admiral Croft and take a more economical residence in Bath. Despite being strongly impressed by wealth and status, he allows Mrs Clay, who is beneath him in social standing, to join his household as a companion to his eldest daughter.
Persuasion has been the subject of several adaptations, including four made-for-television adaptations, theatre productions, radio broadcasts, and other literary works.
Irvine notes that the gentry characters in Persuasion are an "unimpressive lot." Sir Walter is portrayed as a vain, pompous, and incapable of providing love for his children, while the Musgroves lack class and elegance.[23] John Wiltshire writes that Sir Walter obsessively reads books relating only to the baronetage, and the Musgroves are relentlessly philistine in their tastes.[24] Admiral and Mrs Croft do not plan to buy an estate, being content to rent Kellynch Hall, and are described as taking better care of the estate than Sir Walter, whose family has owned Kellynch Hall for three generations.[25] Wiltshire considers that the Musgroves' and Sir Walter's narrowness of vision and taste highlight the heightened state of Anne's consciousnesses.[24]
2007: Persuasion, television film using Bath locations shot in September 2006 for ITV1, with Sally Hawkins as Anne, Rupert Penry-Jones as Captain Wentworth.[44]
Captain James Benwick – A friend of Captains Harville and Wentworth. Benwick was engaged to marry Captain Harville's sister Fanny, but she died while Benwick was at sea. He gained prize money as a lieutenant and was promoted to commander (thus earning the right to be called Captain). Benwick's enjoyment of reading gives him a connection with Anne as does her willingness to listen to him in his time of deep sadness. Benwick was with Louisa Musgrove during her recovery, at the end of which they become engaged to marry.
Brown, Julia Prewitt (1979). Jane Austen's Novels: Social Change and Literary Form. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-47172-6.
Gilson, David (1986).Grey, J David (ed.). Editions and Publishing History. The Jane Austen Companion. New York: Macmillan. ISBN 978-0-025-45540-5.
Lady Russell – An intimate friend of the late Lady Elliot and the godmother of Anne, of whom she is particularly fond. She is instrumental in Sir Walter's decision to leave Kellynch Hall and avoid financial crisis. She values social rank and finds in Anne the Elliot daughter most like her late friend, which leads her to persuade the young girl not to marry Wentworth seven years earlier on account of his lack of wealth.
Pinch also writes that Austen is more concerned with spatial matters as various families, especially the Musgroves, are portrayed in terms of the amount of space they take up and noise they generate.[14] For example, Captain Wentworth and Elliot are prevented from embracing by grossly obese Mrs Musgrove, and Sir Walter comments after seeing some Royal Navy sailors that they are "fit not to be seen"; Austen notes how people look and the brain registers visual information.[15] Pinch describes Persuasion as a novel of "repetitions, of things happening within a strong context of memory."[16] Anne is often lost in her own world of thought, and throughout the book the phrase "Anne found herself" recurs.[17] During her walk at Winthrop on a November day, Anne ruminates on various aspects of her life and the books she has read, and Austen seems to suggest that reading is insufficient consolation for a woman's pain, but also unavoidable if one wishes for her comfort.[18]
"Persuasion (director Jeff James)". BSECS Criticks Reviews. 5 July 2017. Retrieved 8 April 2019.
Tomalin, Claire (1997). Jane Austen: A Life. New York: Alfred A Knopf. ISBN 978-0-679-44628-6.
Beer, Gillian (1998). Introduction. Persuasion. By Austen, Jane. London: Penguin Classics. ISBN 978-0-140-43467-5.
^ "Persuasión: Tus programas favoritos de TVE, en RTVE Play". RTVE.es (in Spanish). Retrieved 2 August 2022.
Thus, Beer explains, Austen was keenly aware that the human quality of persuasion—to persuade or to be persuaded, rightly or wrongly—is fundamental to the process of human communication, and that, in her novel "Jane Austen gradually draws out the implications of discriminating 'just' and 'unjust' persuasion." Indeed, the narrative winds through a number of situations in which people influence or attempt to influence other people, or themselves. Finally, Beer calls attention to "the novel's entire brooding on the power pressures, the seductions, and also the new pathways opened by persuasion."[2]: xv–xviii
Canadian scholar Sheila Johnson Kindred states that parts of Persuasion were inspired by the career of Austen's brother Charles Austen, a Royal Navy officer as there are some similarities between the career of the real-life Captain Austen and the fictional Captain Wentworth: both began their careers in command of sloops in the North America station at about the same age; both were popular with their crews; both progressed to the command of frigates; both were keen to share their prize money with their crews, though Captain Wentworth ended up considerably richer as a result of his prize money than did Captain Austen.[3]
This page was last edited on 9 February 2023, at 14:40 (UTC).
"Jane Austen's Persuasion, Newly Adapted as a Musical – Discount Tickets at Royal George Theater". Style Chicago. September 2013. Archived from the original on 17 September 2016. Retrieved 8 September 2016.
Kindred, Sheila Johnson (June 2009). "The Influence of Naval Captain Charles Austen's North American Experiences on Persuasion and Mansfield Park". Persuasions: The Jane Austen Journal (31): 115–129. S2CID 141868499.
"OnStage Playhouse". CA Community Theatre. 4 January 2018. Retrieved 1 October 2018.
Admiral Croft and his wife arrive in Bath with the news that Louisa is engaged to Captain Benwick. Wentworth travels to Bath, where his jealousy is piqued by seeing William trying to court Anne. Captain Wentworth and Anne renew their acquaintance. Anne visits Mrs Smith, an old school friend, who is now a widow living in Bath under strained circumstances. From her, Anne discovers that beneath William's charming veneer, he is a cold, calculating opportunist who led Mrs Smith's late husband into debt. As executor to her husband's will, William has done nothing to improve Mrs Smith's situation. Although Mrs Smith believes that William is genuinely attracted to Anne, she feels that his primary aim is to prevent Mrs Clay from marrying Sir Walter, as a new marriage might mean a new son, displacing him as heir to Kellynch Hall.
Anne Elliot – The second daughter of Sir Walter. Anne is intelligent, accomplished and attractive, and she is unmarried at 27, having broken off her engagement to Frederick Wentworth, then a naval commander, seven years earlier. Anne fell in love with Wentworth but was persuaded by her mentor, Lady Russell, to reject his proposal because of his poverty, uncertain future, and Anne's youth. Anne rejects Charles Musgrove's proposal a few years later, knowing she still loves Wentworth, but it is only when Wentworth returns from fighting abroad that she finally confronts her unfulfilled feelings for him.
To this may be added the surviving version of Austen's handwritten copy of the original draft before the editing process outlined above had even started where Austen wrote it in the following nascent form:
The literary scholar Stuart Tave, in his essay on Anne Elliot, notes the melancholy qualities of her reality after she turns down Captain Wentworth's original proposal of marriage. For Tave, Austen portrays Anne as a character with many admirable traits, usually exceeding the characters who surround her in these traits. Tave singles out Austen's portrayal of Anne at the end of the novel in her conversation with Captain Harville, when they discuss the relative virtues of gender and their advantages compared to one another; Tave sees Anne as displaying remarkable intelligence. Tave quotes from Virginia Woolf's A Room of One's Own: "It was strange to think that all the great women of fiction were, until Jane Austen's day, not only seen by the other sex, but seen only in relation to the other sex." Tave applies Woolf's insight to Persuasion, writing: "All histories are against you, Captain Harville says to Anne in their disagreement about man's nature and woman's nature, 'all stories, prose and verse.' He could bring fifty quotations in a moment to his side of the argument, from books, songs, proverbs. But they were all written by men. 'Men have had every advantage of us in telling their own story,' as Anne says. Persuasion is the story told by a woman."[19]
Persuasion Gazetteer, A Guide to the Real and Imagined Places in the Novel
The Musgroves, including Mary, Charles, and Charles' sisters Henrietta and Louisa, welcome the Crofts and Captain Wentworth, who makes it known that he is ready to marry. Henrietta is engaged to her cousin, clergyman Charles Hayter, who is absent when Wentworth is introduced to their social circle. Both the Crofts and Musgroves enjoy speculating about which sister Captain Wentworth might marry. Once Hayter returns, Henrietta turns her affections to him again. Anne still loves Wentworth, so each meeting with him requires preparation for her own strong emotions. She overhears a conversation in which Louisa tells Wentworth that Charles Musgrove first proposed to Anne, who turned him down. This news startles Wentworth, and Anne realises that he has not yet forgiven her for letting herself be persuaded to end their engagement years ago.
Persuasion is the first of Austen's novels to feature as the central character a woman who, by the standards of the time, is past the first bloom of youth. British literary critic Robert P Irvine writes that Persuasion "is in many ways a radical departure" from Austen's earlier novels.[10] Austen biographer Claire Tomalin characterizes the book as Austen's "present to herself, to Miss Sharp, to Cassandra, to Martha Lloyd...to all women who had lost their chance in life and would never enjoy a second spring."[11]
He found that he was considered by his friend Harville, as an engaged Man. The Harvilles entertained not a doubt of a mutual attachment between him & Louisa—and though this to a degree was contradicted instantly—it yet made him feel that perhaps by her family, be everyone, by herself even, the same idea might be held—and that he was not free alas! in Heart.—He had never thought justly on this subject before—he had not sufficiently considered that this excessive Intimacy at Uppercross must have it's (sic?) danger of ill consequence in many ways, and that while trying whether he c-d (sic) attach himself to either of the Girls, he might be exciting unpleasant reports, if not, raising unrequited regard!—He found, too late, that he had entangled himself—."
"Jane Austen's Persuasion | New Play by Sarah Rose Kearns"
The coolness to the reader (conveyed by Austen's narrative) contrasts with an intensity of feeling for the characters in the story, particularly for the heroine. The reason for this contradiction is that Anne Elliot is the central intelligence of the novel. Sir Walter is seen as Anne sees him, with resigned contempt. For the first time Jane Austen gives over the narrator's authority to a character almost completely, In Emma, many events and situations are seen from Emma's point of view, but the central intelligence lies somewhere between the narrator and the reader, who together see that Emma sees wrongly. In Persuasion, Anne Elliot's feelings and evaluations correspond to those of the narrator in almost every situation, although there are several significant lapses...It seems that this transfer of authority placed a strain on Jane Austen's accustomed narrative tendencies and that she could not maintain it completely.[20]
Luscombe, Tim (2011). Persuasion by Jane Austen in a new adaptation. London: Oberon Books. ISBN 978-1-84943-193-4. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
2011: An adaptation for the stage of Persuasion by Tim Luscombe was produced by Salisbury Playhouse (Repertory Theatre) in 2011.[49][50] In 2019, this adaptation was staged by the Genesian Theatre.[51]
William Elliot – A distant relation ("great grandson of the second Sir Walter" when it is not stated from which Sir Walter the present one descends) and the heir presumptive of Sir Walter. It is later revealed that, beneath his charming veneer, Mr Elliot is a cold, calculating opportunist. He became estranged from the family when he married a woman of lower social rank for her fortune and actively insulted his uncle; his relatives cast him aside, until he returned as a wealthy man when they desperately needed money. Despite rumours that he is interested in Elizabeth, he instead turns his attentions towards Anne. He is a widower, eager to claim the social value of the title that he will someday inherit. He also has an interest in Mrs Clay, Elizabeth's companion, and she later becomes his mistress, although this turns out largely to be an attempt by William to stop his uncle from remarrying and potentially producing a son who would also have a claim to his inheritance.
Kary, David (7 July 2019). "PERSUASION @ THE GENESIANS". Sydney Arts Guide. Archived from the original on 7 July 2019. Retrieved 9 July 2019.
"Review: Persuasion makes music out of Austen's melancholy". Seattle Times. 24 July 2017. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
2017: Persuasion, a musical adaptation by Harold Taw and Chris Jeffries.World-premiere production at Taproot Theatre Company.[53]
Pinch 1998, p. 98 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFPinch1998 (help)
^ "Spies and Spas in Saratoga: JASNA-NY Takes to the Road". Jane Austen Society of North America, New York Metropolitan Region. 13 May 2017. Retrieved 8 October 2017.
"Persuasión: Tus programas favoritos de TVE, en RTVE Play". RTVE.es (in Spanish). Retrieved 2 August 2022.
^ "OnStage Playhouse". CA Community Theatre. 4 January 2018. Retrieved 1 October 2018.
Tave, Stuart M (1973). "Anne Elliot, Whose Word Had No Weight". Some Words of Jane Austen. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-79016-9.
For Irvine, Persuasion's key moments come when a third party overhears somebody's else conversation, whereas conversation is a means for members of the elite to confirm their membership of a common group in Austen's other novels.[32] Louisa Musgrove discusses Admiral Croft's carriage driving with Wentworth, which leads her to say, "If I loved a man, as she loves the Admiral, I would be always with him, nothing should ever separate us, and I would rather be overturned by him, than driven safely by anybody else."[32] According to Irvine, overhearing this conversation brings back Anne's memories of her love for Wentworth and brings her sorrow as she fears that he is falling in love with Louisa.[33] Another overheard conversation occurs during the novel's climax, when Anne debates with Captain Harville the respective capacity for faithfulness of men and women, which Wentworth overhears.[34] Not realising that Wentworth is listening, Anne says, "All the privilege I claim for my own sex (it is not a very enviable one, you need not covet it) is that of loving longest, when existence or when hope is gone."[35] The narrator notes that, after saying this, "She [Anne] could not immediately have uttered another sentence; her heart was too full, her breath too much oppressed."[35] As Wentworth fears a second rejection by Anne, John Wiltshire, known for his work on psychoanalysis and literature,[36] feels that much of the novel is concerned with incidents that bring the two together and relies upon relating Anne's psychological state as she comes close to the man who once proposed marriage to her, making it more of a psychological study.[37]
"Spies and Spas in Saratoga: JASNA-NY Takes to the Road". Jane Austen Society of North America, New York Metropolitan Region. 13 May 2017. Retrieved 8 October 2017.
^ a b Litz, A Walton (2010) [1975]. "Persuasion: forms of estrangement".In Halperin, John (ed.). Jane Austen: Bicentenary Essays. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-09929-5.
Following Louisa's accident, Anne joins her father and sister in Bath with Lady Russell while Louisa and her parents stay at the Harvilles' in Lyme Regis for her recovery. Captain Wentworth visits his older brother Edward in Shropshire. Anne finds that her father and sister are flattered by the attentions of their cousin William Elliot, thinking that if he marries Elizabeth, the family fortunes will be restored. William flatters Anne and offhandedly mentions that he was "fascinated" with the name of his future wife already being an "Elliot" who would rightfully take over for her late mother. Although Anne wants to like William, the attention and his manners, she finds his character opaque and difficult to judge.
2015: Classic Alice, a digital series adaptation starring Kate Hackett as an interpretation of Anne.[40]
Charles Musgrove, though friendly and respectable, is portrayed as unsuitable for Anne as his only interests are guns, hunting, dogs and horses.[26] Irvine notes that in British fiction at the time, it was a normal plot device for women—who were portrayed as more sensitive and poetical than men—to improve someone like Charles by showing him that there is more to life than hunting, but Anne rejects this role, and the narrator suggests that she was right to do so.[27] The marriage of Anne's parents is presented as such a match, with Anne's mother attempting to "improve" Sir Walter, and her life becoming thoroughly miserable as a result.[28] But the possibility of such a marriage seems to exist for Captain Benwick and Louisa Musgrove, as the narrator notes, "he would gain cheerfulness and she would learn to be an enthusiast for Scott and Lord Byron."[28] According to Irvine, Benwick and Anne are similar characters, who have a profound sense of loss. Anne's heart still belongs to Wentworth, but Benwick is described as "younger in feelings, if not in fact; younger as a man. He will rally again, and be happy with another".[28]
2020: Modern Persuasion, a film modernization and retelling of Persuasion, for Hulu starring Alicia Witt and directed by Alex Appel.[38]
Lady Russell persuades Anne to reject Wentworth's first offer of marriage.[29] Lady Russell never expresses any guilt about breaking up Anne's relationship with Wentworth: "her heart revelled in angry pleasure, in pleased contempt." But Lady Russell does reflect that Wentworth, who had once seemed to appreciate Anne's superior qualities, now appeared to be attracted to Louisa Musgrove, who, although pleasant, is vastly inferior to Anne in character.[24]
Likewise, Captain Austen's wife Fanny, whom he married in Bermuda in 1807, bears some similarities to Mrs Croft, who, like Fanny Austen, lived aboard naval vessels for a time; lived alternatively in Bermuda and Halifax (the two ports that hosted the Royal Navy's North America station); crossed the Atlantic five times, though Mrs Croft was middle-aged in the novel while Fanny Austen was 15 when she married Captain Austen.[4]
^ Wood, Dean (13 April 2022). "Review: Persuasion, Alexandra Palace Theatre". Retrieved 19 April 2022.
Irvine writes that, unlike in Austen's other novels, a "non-event" at the beginning of Persuasion—Anne does not marry Wentworth—shapes the rest of the plot, as the hero and heroine defeat the consequences of their shared history.[10] Irvine also says that Persuasion's plot depends upon the main characters remaining the same, and the need for the characters to remain true to themselves, to cherish the memory of the ones they love, is emphasized by the signs of social decay around Anne; the gentry characters neglect their estates and treat the values they are supposed to uphold. Anne's love for Wentworth is the only fixed point in an otherwise fluid world.[31]
"John Wiltshire". Annual General Meeting. Boston: Jane Austen Society of North America. October 2000. Retrieved 8 October 2020.
Love and Friendship - Episode 105 - Classic Alice - Persuasion #Christmas #HolidaySeason
Robert Irvine writes that, unlike other Austen heroes, who are either part of the gentry, the aristocracy or the Church of England, Wentworth is a self-made man who has become rich via prize money allowed to those who served in the Royal Navy.[21] Sir Walter disparages naval officers like Wentworth and Croft because they "spoil" their complexions outside on the sea and have risen "too quickly" in social status. But Sir Walter is portrayed as financially incompetent, having squandered his inherited wealth, whereas Wentworth uses his prize money wisely.[22] Sir Walter's dismissal of the navy men who played such a prominent role in defeating Napoleon is considered unpatriotic and ungrateful.[22] According to the scholar Gary Kelly, Sir Walter is a stand-in for the notoriously spendthrift and snobbish Prince Regent George—of whom Austen deeply disapproved—who was infamous for his womanizing, gambling, drinking, and inability to pay his colossal debts.[22] At the time, there was a widespread belief that Britain defeated France despite the Prince Regent rather than because of him, and Kelly states that a character like Sir Walter—who did nothing to defeat Napoleon—attacking someone like Wentworth was Austen's way of expressing her frustration at the Prince Regent taking credit for defeating Napoleon.[22]
Readers of Persuasion might conclude that Austen intended "persuasion" to be the unifying theme of the story, as the idea of persuasion runs through the book, with vignettes within the story as variations on that theme. British literary scholar Gillian Beer establishes that Austen had profound concerns about the levels and applications of "persuasion" employed in society, especially as it related to the pressures and choices facing the young women of her day. Beer asserts that persuasion was indeed "fraught with moral dangers" for Austen and her contemporary readers;[2]: xv  she notes particularly that Austen personally was appalled by what she came to regard as her own misguided advice to her beloved niece Fanny Knight on the very question of whether Fanny ought to accept a particular suitor, even though it would have meant a protracted engagement. Beer writes: .mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}
Peterfreund, Diana (2013), For Darkness Shows the Stars,[60] Balzer + Bray
"BBC Radio 4 Extra, Persuasion". BBC. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
Jane Austen liked Fanny Austen, whom she admired for her "unfussiness and gallant good sense."[4] Even after the outbreak of the War of 1812, Fanny Austen was anxious to follow her husband back to the North America station despite the danger of American attacks on Bermuda and Halifax. Jane Austen was impressed with her devotion according to Kindred, seeing Fanny's desire to be with her husband no matter the danger as an attractive trait. Likewise, in Persuasion, Mrs Croft follows her husband everywhere despite the dangers.[5]
Several years later, the Elliot family are in financial trouble on account of their lavish spending, so they lease out Kellynch Hall and decide to settle in a cheaper home in Bath until their finances improve. Sir Walter, Elizabeth, and Elizabeth's new companion, Mrs Clay, look forward to the move. Anne is less sure she will enjoy Bath, but cannot go against her family. Mary is now married to Charles Musgrove of Uppercross Hall, the heir to a respected local squire. Anne visits Mary and her family, where she is well-loved. As the war against France is over, the new tenants of Kellynch Hall, Admiral Croft and his wife Sophia, (Frederick's sister), have returned home. Captain Wentworth, now wealthy and famous for his service in the war, visits his sister and meets the Uppercross family, where he crosses paths with Anne.
^ Bresloff, Alan (12 September 2011). "Jane Austen's "Persuasion"". Around the Town Chicago. Retrieved 8 September 2016.
"Spring Reads - HB Playwrights New Plays in Process - HB Studio". HB Studio. 27 March 2017. Retrieved 8 October 2017.
In the Meantime: Character and Perception in Jane Austen's Fiction
2019: Rational Creatures, a web series modernization of Persuasion, with Kristina Pupo as Ana Elías (Anne Elliot) and Peter Giessl as Fred Wentworth (Captain Wentworth), created by Ayelen Barrios, Hazel Jeffs, Jessamyn Leigh, and Anya Steiner.[45]
Bell, Terena (20 January 2021). "On the Never-Ending Barrage of Austen Adaptations". Medium. Retrieved 22 January 2021.
^ Tave, Stuart M (1973). "Anne Elliot, Whose Word Had No Weight". Some Words of Jane Austen. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-79016-9.
Penelope Clay – A poor widow with children, daughter of Sir Walter's lawyer, and companion of Elizabeth Elliot. She aims to flatter Sir Walter into marriage while her oblivious friend looks on. Later, she abandons the family to become the unmarried mistress of William Elliot.
^ "BBC Radio 4 Extra, Persuasion". BBC. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
Mrs Smith – A friend of Anne Elliot who lives in Bath. Mrs Smith is a widow who suffers ill health and financial difficulties. She keeps abreast of the doings of Bath society through news she gets from her nurse, Rooke, who tends the wife of a friend of William Elliot's. Her financial problems could have been straightened out with assistance from William Elliot, her husband's friend and executor of his will, but Elliot's greed led him to hide most of her remaining fortune with the expectation that he would eventually be able to take it for himself. Wentworth eventually acts on her behalf when William departs Bath, allowing Mrs Smith to claim her money.
The novel was well-received in the early 19th century, but its greater fame came later in the century and continued into the 20th and 21st centuries. Much scholarly debate on Austen's work has since been published. Anne Elliot is noteworthy among Austen's heroines for her relative maturity. As Persuasion was Austen's last completed work, it is accepted as her most maturely written novel, showing a refinement of literary conception indicative of a woman approaching 40 years of age. Her use of free indirect speech in narrative was in full evidence by 1816.
Henry Austen supplied a "Biographical Notice" of his sister in which her identity was revealed; she was no longer an anonymous author.
Henrietta Musgrove – Eldest sister of Charles Musgrove. Henrietta, aged about 20, is informally engaged to her cousin, Charles Hayter, but is tempted by the more dashing Captain Wentworth. Once Hayter returns home, she again connects with him.
Unlike Sense and Sensibility and Pride and Prejudice, Persuasion was not rewritten from earlier drafts of novels that Austen had originally started before 1800.
Litz, A Walton (2010) [1975]. "Persuasion: forms of estrangement".In Halperin, John (ed.). Jane Austen: Bicentenary Essays. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-09929-5.
Bresloff, Alan (12 September 2011). "Jane Austen's "Persuasion"". Around the Town Chicago. Retrieved 8 September 2016.
Matthews, Miriam; Demus, Alyssa; Treyger, Elina; Posard, Marek N.; Reineger, Hilary; Paul, Christofer (March 2021). "Understanding and Defending Against Russia's Malign and Subversive Information Efforts in Europe" (PDF). Rand Research Report.
Bogost, Ian (2007). Persuasive Games: The Expressive Power of Videogames. MIT Press. ISBN 978-0-262-02614-7.
Cellina, Francesca; Vittucci Marzetti, Giuseppe; Gui, Marco (December 2021). "Self-selection and attrition biases in app-based persuasive technologies for mobility behavior change: Evidence from a Swiss case study". Computers in Human Behavior. 125: 106970. doi:10.1016/j.chb.2021.106970. hdl:10281/322140.
"Sustaining Sustainable Hydration: the Importance of Aligning Information Cues to Motivate Long Term Consumer Behavior Change"
Persuasive technologies developed relies on self-report or automated systems that monitor human behavior using sensors and pattern recognition algorithms. Several studies in the medical field have noted that self-report is subject to bias, recall errors and low adherence rates. The physical world and human behavior are both highly complex and ambiguous. Utilizing sensors and machine learning algorithms to monitor and predict human behavior remains a challenging problem, especially that most of the persuasive technologies require just-in-time intervention.
It is worth noting that intrinsic motivators can be subject to the overjustification [27] effect, which states if intrinsic motivators are associated with a reward and you remove the reward then the intrinsic motivation tends to diminish. This is because depending on how the reward is seen, it can become linked to extrinsic motivations instead of intrinsic motivations. Badges, prizes, and other award systems will increase intrinsic motivation if they are seen as reflecting competence and merit.
Caraban, Ana; Ferreira, Maria José; Gouveia, Rúben; Karapanos, Evangelos (2015). "Social toothbrush". Proceedings of the 2015 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing and Proceedings of the 2015 ACM International Symposium on Wearable Computers - Ubi Comp '15. pp. 649–653. doi:10.1145/2800835.2809438. ISBN 978-1-4503-3575-1. S2CID 24178634.
Fogg, B.J.; Nass, Clifford (1997a). "Silicon sycophants: the effects of computers that flatter". International Journal of Human-Computer Studies. 46 (5): 551–561. doi:10.1006/ijhc.1996.0104.
Lieto, Antonio; Vernero, Fabiana (2013). "Unveiling the link between logical fallacies and web persuasion". Proceedings of the 5th Annual ACM Web Science Conference on - Web Sci '13. pp. 473–478. arXiv:1304.3940. doi:10.1145/2464464.2508564. ISBN 978-1-4503-1889-1. S2CID 16836693.
This persuades the technology user through an authoritative agent, for example, a strict personal trainer who instructs the user to perform the task that will meet their goal.[citation needed]
"Understanding and Defending Against Russia's Malign and Subversive Information Efforts in Europe"
Interestingly, there have been some studies that showed unique insights and that behavior change is a complex chain of events: a study by Chudzynski et al. showed that reinforcement schedule has little effect on maintaining behavior change.[40] A point made in a study by Wemyss et al. is that even though people who have maintained behavior change for short term might revert to baseline, their perception of their behavior change could be different: they still believe they maintained the behavior change even if they factually have not.[38] Therefore, it is possible self-report measures would not always be the most effective way of evaluating the effectiveness of the intervention.[citation needed]
Halko, Sajanee; Kientz, Julie A. (2010). "Personality and Persuasive Technology: An Exploratory Study on Health-Promoting Mobile Applications". Persuasive Technology. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol. 6137. pp. 150–161. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-13226-1_16. ISBN 978-3-642-13225-4.
Winograd, Terry (1986). "A language/Action perspective on the design of cooperative work". Proceedings of the 1986 ACM conference on Computer-supported cooperative work - CSCW '86. p. 203. doi:10.1145/637069.637096. ISBN 978-1-4503-7365-4. S2CID 1709034.
Licklider, J. C. R.; Taylor, R. W. (1968). "The Computer As a Communication Device" (PDF). Science and Technology. 76 (2): 21–38. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 July 2007.
This page was last edited on 7 February 2023, at 02:46 (UTC).
1Taxonomies											Toggle Taxonomies subsection																					1.1Functional triad																											1.2Direct interaction v. mediation																											1.3Persuasion design																											1.4Persuasion by social motivators
Fogg, BJ (1998). "Persuasive computers: perspectives and research directions". Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems - CHI '98. pp. 225–232. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.83.7257. doi:10.1145/274644.274677. ISBN 978-0-201-30987-4. S2CID 14818487.
To make behavior change strategies more effective, researchers also have been adapting well-known and empirically tested behavior change theories into such practice. The most prominent behavior change theories that have been implemented in various health-related behavior change research has been self-determination theory, theory of planned behavior, social cognitive theory, transtheoretical model, and social ecological model. Each behavior change theory analyses behavior change in different ways and consider different factors to be more or less important. Research has suggested that interventions based on behavior change theories tend to yield better result than interventions that do not employ such theories. The effectiveness of them vary: social cognitive theory proposed by Bandura, which incorporates the well-known construct of self-efficacy, has been the most widely used method in behavior change interventions as well as the most effective in maintaining long-term behavior change.[37]
Reeves, Byron; Nass, Clifford (1996). The Media Equation: How People Treat Computers, Television, and New Media like Real People and Places. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-57586-052-7.
In addition to encouraging ethically and morally responsible designs, Fogg believes education, such as through the journal articles he writes, is a panacea for concerns about the ethical challenges of persuasive computers.[5] Fogg notes two fundamental distinctions regarding the importance of education in engaging with ethics and technology: "First, increased knowledge about persuasive computers allows people more opportunity to adopt such technologies to enhance their own lives, if they choose. Second, knowledge about persuasive computers helps people recognize when technologies are using tactics to persuade them."[5]
"And Lead Us (Not) into Persuasion…? Persuasive Technology and the Ethics of Communication"
6Research challenges											Toggle Research challenges subsection																					6.1Technical challenges																											6.2Difficulty in studying behavior change																											6.3Ethical challenges
"Studying the effects of intervention programmes on household energy saving behaviours using graphical causal models"
This persuades the user through a neutral agent, for example, a friend who encourages the user to meet their goals. Another example of instruction style is customer reviews; a mix of positive and negative reviews together give a neutral perspective on a product or service.[26]
Wemyss, Devon; Cellina, Francesca; Lobsiger-Kägi, Evelyn; de Luca, Vanessa; Castri, Roberta (January 2019). "Does it last? Long-term impacts of an app-based behavior change intervention on household electricity savings in Switzerland". Energy Research & Social Science. 47: 16–27. doi:10.1016/j.erss.2018.08.018. S2CID 169310480.
Maintaining behavior change long term is one of the challenges of behavior change interventions. For instance, as reported, for chronic illness treatment regimens non-adherence rate can be as high as 50% to 80%. Common strategies that have been shown by previous research to increase long-term adherence to treatment include extended care, skills training, social support, treatment tailoring, self-monitoring, and multicomponent stages. However, even though these strategies have been demonstrated to be effective, there are also existing barriers to implementation of such programs: limited time, resources, as well as patient factors such as embarrassment of disclosing their health habits.[36]
The question of manipulating feelings and desires through persuasive technology remains an open ethical debate. User-centered design guidelines should be developed encouraging ethically and morally responsible designs, and provide a reasonable balance between the pros and cons of persuasive technologies.[46]
Persuasive technology is broadly defined as technology that is designed to change attitudes or behaviors of the users through persuasion and social influence, but not necessarily through coercion.[1] Such technologies are regularly used in sales, diplomacy, politics, religion, military training, public health, and management, and may potentially be used in any area of human-human or human-computer interaction. Most self-identified persuasive technology research focuses on interactive, computational technologies, including desktop computers, Internet services, video games, and mobile devices,[2] but this incorporates and builds on the results, theories, and methods of experimental psychology, rhetoric,[3] and human-computer interaction. The design of persuasive technologies can be seen as a particular case of design with intent.[4]
Bhushan, Nitin; Steg, Linda; Albers, Casper (November 2018). "Studying the effects of intervention programmes on household energy saving behaviours using graphical causal models". Energy Research & Social Science. 45: 75–80. doi:10.1016/j.erss.2018.07.027. S2CID 70007984.
Thieme, Anja; Comber, Rob; Miebach, Julia; Weeden, Jack; Kraemer, Nicole; Lawson, Shaun; Olivier, Patrick (2012). "'We've bin watching you'". Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. pp. 2337–2346. doi:10.1145/2207676.2208394. ISBN 978-1-4503-1015-4. S2CID 8776002.
In 1973, Lepper et al. conducted a foundational study that underscored the overjustification effect.[28] Their team brought magic markers to a preschool and created three test groups of children who were intrinsically motivated. The first group were informed that if they used markers they could receive a “Good Player Award.” The second group was not incentivized to use the magic markers with a reward, but were given a reward after playing. The third group was given no expectations about awards and received no awards. A week later, all students played with the markers without a reward. The students receiving the "good player" award originally showed half as much interest as when they began the study. Later, other psychologists repeated this experiment only to conclude that rewards create short-term motivation, but undermine intrinsic motivation.
Persuasive Technology: Third International Conference, PERSUASIVE 2008, Oulu, Finland, June 4-6, 2008, Proceedings
Stibe, Agnis; Cugelman, Brian (2016). "Persuasive Backfiring: When Behavior Change Interventions Trigger Unintended Negative Outcomes". Persuasive Technology. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol. 9638. pp. 65–77. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-31510-2_6. hdl:1721.1/108479. ISBN 978-3-319-31509-6.
^ [Yang et al.] 2020. sfn error: no target: CITEREF[Yang_et_al.]2020 (help)
Turkle, Sherry (1984). The second self: computers and the human spirit. Simon and Schuster. ISBN 978-0-671-46848-4. OCLC 895659909.
"The Design with Intent Method: A design tool for influencing user behaviour"
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"APA Dictionary of Psychology".
2Persuasive strategies											Toggle Persuasive strategies subsection																					2.1Instruction style																								2.1.1Authoritative																											2.1.2Non-authoritative																														2.2Social feedback																								2.2.1Cooperative																											2.2.2Competitive																														2.3Motivation type																								2.3.1Extrinsic																											2.3.2Intrinsic																														2.4Reinforcement type																								2.4.1Negative reinforcement																											2.4.2Positive reinforcement																											2.4.3Logical Fallacies
"Persuasive Technology Conference – The 12th International Conference on Persuasive Technology"
Previous work has also shown that people are receptive to change their behaviors for sustainable lifestyles. This result has encouraged researchers to develop persuasive technologies to promote for example, green travels,[41] less waste,[22] etc.
Dhar, Rhavi; Putnam-Farr, Eleanor (2017). "Sustaining Sustainable Hydration: the Importance of Aligning Information Cues to Motivate Long Term Consumer Behavior Change". ACR North American Advances. NA-45.
This persuades the user by removing an unpleasant stimulus. For example, a brown and dying nature scene might turn green and healthy as the user practises more healthy behaviors.[citation needed]
Chiu, Meng-Chieh; Chang, Shih-Ping; Chang, Yu-Chen; Chu, Hao-Hua; Chen, Cheryl Chia-Hui; Hsiao, Fei-Hsiu; Ko, Ju-Chun (2009). "Playful bottle". Proceedings of the 11th international conference on Ubiquitous computing. pp. 185–194. doi:10.1145/1620545.1620574. ISBN 978-1-60558-431-7. S2CID 207175275.
"Persuasive Technology Conference – The 12th International Conference on Persuasive Technology".
Fogg, B.J. (2003b). "Computers as persuasive tools". Persuasive Technology. pp. 31–59. doi:10.1016/B978-155860643-2/50005-6. ISBN 978-1-55860-643-2.
Spahn, Andreas (December 2012). "And Lead Us (Not) into Persuasion…? Persuasive Technology and the Ethics of Communication". Science and Engineering Ethics. 18 (4): 633–650. doi:10.1007/s11948-011-9278-y. PMC 3513602. PMID 21544700.
Persuasive technologies can also be categorized by whether they change attitude and behaviors through direct interaction or through a mediating role:[13] do they persuade, for example, through human-computer interaction (HCI) or computer-mediated communication (CMC)? The examples already mentioned are the former, but there are many of the latter. Communication technologies can persuade or amplify the persuasion of others by transforming the social interaction,[14][15] providing shared feedback on interaction,[16] or restructuring communication processes.[17]
Elton, Catherine (21 May 2007). "'Laura' makes digital health coaching personal". The Boston Globe.
Fogg, B.J. (2003c). "Computers as persuasive media". Persuasive Technology. pp. 61–87. doi:10.1016/B978-155860643-2/50006-8. ISBN 978-1-55860-643-2.
Oinas-Kukkonen, Harri; Harjumaa, Marja (2008). "A Systematic Framework for Designing and Evaluating Persuasive Systems". Persuasive Technology. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol. 5033. pp. 164–176. doi:10.1007/978-3-540-68504-3_15. ISBN 978-3-540-68500-5.
Numerous scientific studies show that online health behaviour change interventions can influence users' behaviours. Moreover, the most effective interventions are modelled on health coaching, where users are asked to set goals, educated about the consequences of their behaviour, then encouraged to track their progress toward their goals. Sophisticated systems even adapt to users who relapse by helping them get back on the bandwagon.[35]
Gena, Cristina; Grillo, Pierluigi; Lieto, Antonio; Mattutino, Claudio; Vernero, Fabiana (26 September 2019). "When Personalization Is Not an Option: An In-The-Wild Study on Persuasive News Recommendation". Information. 10 (10): 300. doi:10.3390/info10100300.
This persuades the user by adding a positive stimulus. For example, adding flowers, butterflies, and other nice-looking elements to an empty nature scene as a user practises more healthy behaviors.[citation needed]
[Yang et al.] 2020. sfn error: no target: CITEREF[Yang_et_al.]2020 (help)
Joseph, Rodney P.; Daniel, Casey L.; Thind, Herpreet; Benitez, Tanya J.; Pekmezi, Dori (8 July 2016). "Applying Psychological Theories to Promote Long-Term Maintenance of Health Behaviors". American Journal of Lifestyle Medicine. 10 (6): 356–368. doi:10.1177/1559827614554594. PMC 5313056. PMID 28217036.
^ Greene, David, and Mark R. Lepper. “Effects of Extrinsic Rewards on Children’s Subsequent Intrinsic Interest.” Child Development, vol. 45, no. 4, [Wiley, Society for Research in Child Development], 1974, pp. 1141–45, https://doi.org/10.2307/1128110.
This persuades the user through external motivators, for example, winning a trophy as a reward for completing a task.[citation needed]
Dimicco, Joan Morris; Pandolfo, Anna; Bender, Walter (2004). "Influencing group participation with a shared display". Proceedings of the 2004 ACM conference on Computer supported cooperative work - CSCW '04. p. 614. doi:10.1145/1031607.1031713. ISBN 978-1-58113-810-8. S2CID 1241791.
Wixom, Barbara H.; Todd, Peter A. (March 2005). "A Theoretical Integration of User Satisfaction and Technology Acceptance". Information Systems Research. 16 (1): 85–102. doi:10.1287/isre.1050.0042.
"Online Interventions for Social Marketing Health Behavior Change Campaigns: A Meta-Analysis of Psychological Architectures and Adherence Factors"
Technologies can also function as social actors.[8][9] This "opens the door for computers to apply ... social influence".[10] Interactive technologies can cue social responses, e.g., through their use of language, assumption of established social roles, or physical presence. For example, computers can use embodied conversational agents as part of their interface. Or a helpful or disclosive computer can cause users to mindlessly reciprocate.[11][12] Fogg notes that "users seem to respond to computers as social actors when computer technologies adopt animate characteristics (physical features, emotions, voice communication), play animate roles (coach, pet, assistant, opponent), or follow social rules or dynamics (greetings, apologies, turn taking)."[5]
Fogg, B.J. (2003d). "Computers as persuasive social actors". Persuasive Technology. pp. 89–120. doi:10.1016/B978-155860643-2/50007-X. ISBN 978-1-55860-643-2.
Halko and Kientz made an extensive search in the literature for persuasive strategies and methods used in the field of psychology to modify health-related behaviors.[25] Their search concluded that there are eight main types of persuasive strategies, which can be grouped into the following four categories, where each category has two complementary approaches.
Froehlich, Jon; Dillahunt, Tawanna; Klasnja, Predrag; Mankoff, Jennifer; Consolvo, Sunny; Harrison, Beverly; Landay, James A. (2009). "Ubi Green". Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. pp. 1043–1052. doi:10.1145/1518701.1518861. ISBN 978-1-60558-246-7. S2CID 10819791.
Despite the promising results of existing persuasive technologies, there are three main challenges that remain present.
This persuades the user through the notion of competing. For example, users can play against friends or peers and be motivated to achieve their goal by winning the competition.[citation needed]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"APA Dictionary of Psychology".
Other subjects which have some overlap or features in common with persuasive technology include:
Lockton, Dan; Harrison, David; Stanton, Neville A. (May 2010). "The Design with Intent Method: A design tool for influencing user behaviour" (PDF). Applied Ergonomics. 41 (3): 382–392. doi:10.1016/j.apergo.2009.09.001. PMID 19822311. S2CID 6436131.
Middleton, Kathryn R.; Anton, Stephen D.; Perri, Michal G. (14 June 2013). "Long-Term Adherence to Health Behavior Change". American Journal of Lifestyle Medicine. 7 (6): 395–404. doi:10.1177/1559827613488867. PMC 4988401. PMID 27547170.
Fogg, BJ; Nass, Clifford (1997b). "How users reciprocate to computers". CHI '97 extended abstracts on Human factors in computing systems looking to the future - CHI '97. p. 331. doi:10.1145/1120212.1120419. ISBN 978-0-89791-926-5. S2CID 19000516.
"Guiding Users with Persuasive Design: An Interview with Andrew Chak"
Greene, David, and Mark R. Lepper. “Effects of Extrinsic Rewards on Children’s Subsequent Intrinsic Interest.” Child Development, vol. 45, no. 4, [Wiley, Society for Research in Child Development], 1974, pp. 1141–45, https://doi.org/10.2307/1128110.
Nass, Clifford; Moon, Youngme (January 2000). "Machines and Mindlessness: Social Responses to Computers". Journal of Social Issues. 56 (1): 81–103. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.87.2456. doi:10.1111/0022-4537.00153.
De Oliveira, Rodrigo; Cherubini, Mauro; Oliver, Nuria (2010). "Movi Pill". Proceedings of the 12th ACM international conference on Ubiquitous computing. pp. 251–260. doi:10.1145/1864349.1864371. ISBN 978-1-60558-843-8. S2CID 75742.
Yang, Ellie F.; Shah, Dhavan V.; Burnside, Elizabeth S.; Little, Terry A.; Garino, Natalie; Campbell, Claire Elise (October 2020). "Framing the Clinical Encounter: Shared Decision-Making, Mammography Screening, and Decision Satisfaction". Journal of Health Communication. 25 (9): 681–691. doi:10.1080/10810730.2020.1838003. PMC 7772277. PMID 33111640.
Oinas-Kukkonen, Harri; Hasle, Per; Harjumaa, Marja; Segerståhl, Katarina; Øhrstrøm, Peter, eds. (2008). Persuasive Technology: Third International Conference, PERSUASIVE 2008, Oulu, Finland, June 4-6, 2008, Proceedings. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol. 5033. Springer-Verlag. doi:10.1007/978-3-540-68504-3. ISBN 978-3-540-68500-5.
"Influencing the Others' Minds: An Experimental Evaluation of the Use and Efficacy of Fallacious-Reducible Arguments in Web and Mobile Technologies"
Cugelman, Brian; Thelwall, Mike; Dawes, Phil (14 February 2011). "Online Interventions for Social Marketing Health Behavior Change Campaigns: A Meta-Analysis of Psychological Architectures and Adherence Factors". Journal of Medical Internet Research. 13 (1): e17. doi:10.2196/jmir.1367. PMC 3221338. PMID 21320854.
"The Ethical Use of Persuasive Technology". Stanford Behavior Design Lab.
"When Personalization Is Not an Option: An In-The-Wild Study on Persuasive News Recommendation"
Bailenson, Jeremy N.; Beall, Andrew C.; Loomis, Jack; Blascovich, Jim; Turk, Matthew (August 2004). "Transformed Social Interaction: Decoupling Representation from Behavior and Form in Collaborative Virtual Environments". Presence: Teleoperators and Virtual Environments. 13 (4): 428–441. doi:10.1162/1054746041944803. S2CID 6840360.
This persuades the user through the notion of cooperating and teamwork, such as allowing the user to team up with friends to complete their goals.[citation needed]
Previous research has also utilized on social motivators like competition for persuasion. By connecting a user with other users,[21] his/her coworkers,[22] friends and families,[23] a persuasive application can apply social motivators on the user to promote behavior changes. Social media such as Facebook, Twitter also facilitate the development of such systems. It has been demonstrated that social impact can result in greater behavior changes than the case where the user is isolated.[24]
As media, interactive technologies can use both interactivity and narrative to create persuasive experiences that support rehearsing a behavior, empathizing, or exploring causal relationships.[7] For example, simulations and games instantiate rules and procedures that express a point of view and can shape behavior and persuade; these use procedural rhetoric.[3]
Another ethical challenge for persuasive technology designers is the risk of triggering persuasive backfires, where the technology triggers the bad behavior that it was designed to reduce.[47]
"Framing the Clinical Encounter: Shared Decision-Making, Mammography Screening, and Decision Satisfaction"
One common technique is to facilitate people's awareness of benefits for performing eco-friendly behaviors. For example, a review of over twenty studies exploring the effects of feedback on electricity consumption in the home showed that the feedback on the electricity consumption pattern can typically result in a 5–12% saving.[42] Besides the environmental benefits such as CO2 savings, health benefit, cost are also often used to promote eco-friendly behaviors.[41]
This persuades the user through internal motivators, such as the good feeling a user would have for being healthy or for achieving a goal.[citation needed]
In general, understanding behavioral changes require long-term studies as multiple internal and external factors can influence these changes (such as personality type, age, income, willingness to change and more). For that, it becomes difficult to understand and measure the effect of persuasive technologies.Furthermore, meta-analyses of the effectiveness of persuasive technologies have shown that the behavior change evidence collected so far is at least controversial, since it is rarely obtained by Randomized Controlled Trials (RCTs),[43] the “gold standard” in causal inference analysis. In particular, due to relevant practical challenges to perform strict RCTs,[44] most of the above-mentioned empirical trials on lifestyles rely on voluntary, self-selected participants. If such participants were systematically adopting the desired behaviors already before entering the trial, then self-selection biases would occur. Presence of such biases would weaken the behavior change effects found in the trials. Analyses aimed at identifying the presence and extent of self-selection biases in persuasive technology trials are not widespread yet. A study by Cellina et al. on an app-based behavior change trial in the mobility field found evidence of no self-selection biases.[45] However, further evidence needs to be collected in different contexts and under different persuasive technologies in order to generalize (or confute) their findings.[citation needed]
While persuasive technologies are found in many domains, considerable recent attention has focused on behavior change in health domains. Digital health coaching is the utilization of computers as persuasive technology to augment the personal care delivered to patients, and is used in numerous medical settings.[34]
Even though the healthcare discipline has produced a plethora of empirical behavior change research, other scientific disciplines are also adapting such theories to induce behavior change. For instance, behavior change theories have also been used in sustainability, such as saving electricity,[38] and lifestyle, such as helping people drinking more water.[39] These research has shown that these theories, already effectively proven useful in healthcare, is equally powerful in other fields to promote behavior change.[citation needed]
More recently, Lieto and Vernero[29][30] have also shown that arguments reducible to logical fallacies are a class of widely adopted persuasive techniques in both web and mobile technologies. These techniques have also shown their efficacy in large-scale studies about persuasive news recommendations[31] as well as in the field of human-robot interaction.[32] A 2021 report by the RAND Corporation [33] shows how the use of logical fallacies is one of the rhetorical strategies used by the Russia and its agents to influence the online discourse and spread subversive information in Europe.
Hamari, Juho; Koivisto, Jonna; Pakkanen, Tuomas (2014). "Do Persuasive Technologies Persuade? - A Review of Empirical Studies". Persuasive Technology. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol. 8462. pp. 118–136. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-07127-5_11. ISBN 978-3-319-07126-8.
Fischer, Corinna (February 2008). "Feedback on household electricity consumption: a tool for saving energy?". Energy Efficiency. 1 (1): 79–104. doi:10.1007/s12053-008-9009-7. S2CID 18804506.
Persuasive Technology: Using Computers to Change What We Think and Do
Chudzynski, Joy; Roll, John M.; McPherson, Sterling; Cameron, Jennifer M.; Howell, Donelle N. (13 February 2015). "Reinforcement Schedule Effects on Long-Term Behavior Change". The Psychological Record. 65 (2): 347–353. doi:10.1007/s40732-014-0110-3. PMC 4484864. PMID 26139942.
As tools, technologies can increase people's ability to perform a target behavior by making it easier or restructuring it.[6] For example, an installation wizard can influence task completion – including completing tasks not planned by users (such as installation of additional software).
Augello, Agnese; Città, Giuseppe; Gentile, Manuel; Lieto, Antonio (2021). "A Storytelling Robot managing Persuasive and Ethical Stances via ACT-R: an Exploratory Study". International Journal of Social Robotics. 10 (10): 40. arXiv:2107.12845.
Lieto, Antonio; Vernero, Fabiana (2014). "Influencing the Others' Minds: An Experimental Evaluation of the Use and Efficacy of Fallacious-Reducible Arguments in Web and Mobile Technologies". PsychNology Journal. 12 (3): 87–105.
Fogg, B. J., ed. (2003a). Persuasive Technology: Using Computers to Change What We Think and Do. Morgan Kaufmann. ISBN 978-1-55860-643-2.
"Applying Psychological Theories to Promote Long-Term Maintenance of Health Behaviors"
Perfetti, Christine (1 March 2003). "Guiding Users with Persuasive Design: An Interview with Andrew Chak". UX Articles by UIE.
Fogg, B. J.; Eckles, Dean; Blagojevic, Nadja (April 2007). Mobile Persuasion: 20 Perspectives on the Future of Behavior Change. Captology Media. ISBN 978-0-9795025-1-4.
Persuasive technologies can be categorized by their functional roles. B. J. Fogg proposes the functional triad as a classification of three "basic ways that people view or respond to computing technologies": persuasive technologies can function as tools, media, or social actors – or as more than one at once.[5]
One feature that distinguishes persuasion technology from familiar forms of persuasion is that the individual being persuaded often cannot respond in kind. This is a lack of reciprocal equality. For example, when a conversational agent persuades a user using social influence strategies, the user cannot also use similar strategies on the agent.[1]
Ijsselsteijn, Wijnand; De Kort, Yvonne; Midden, Cees; Eggen, Berry; Van Den Hoven, Elise (2006). "Persuasive Technology for Human Well-Being: Setting the Scene". Persuasive Technology. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol. 3962. pp. 1–5. doi:10.1007/11755494_1. ISBN 978-3-540-34291-5.
Moon, Youngme (March 2000). "Intimate Exchanges: Using Computers to Elicit Self‐Disclosure From Consumers". Journal of Consumer Research. 26 (4): 323–339. doi:10.1086/209566.
