
English Wikipedia has an article on:Arbitrarily largeWikipedia To an arbitrary degree.an arbitrarily large number
This page was last edited on 3 March 2023, at 03:11.
German: willkürlich (de), nach Ermessen, in freiem Ermessen, frei (de), Ermessens-, arbiträr (de)
This page was last edited on 17 January 2023, at 00:06.
Greek: (adjective) αυθαίρετος (el) (afthaíretos), δεσποτικός (el) (despotikós), αυταρχικός (el) (aftarchikós), παρορμητικός (el) (parormitikós), αυθόρμητος (el) (afthórmitos); (noun) αυθαίρετος αριθμός, τυπογραφικό στοιχείο εκτός "οικογένειας", παράταιρο και ανομοιογενές στοιχείο
arbitrary in The Century Dictionary, New York, N.Y.: The Century Co., 1911
1906, Gelett Burgess, Are You a Bromide?The bromide conforms to everything sanctioned by the majority, and may be depended upon to be trite, banal, and arbitrary.
(usually of a decision) Based on individual discretion or judgment; not based on any objective distinction, perhaps even made at random.Benjamin Franklin's designation of "positive" and "negative" to different charges was arbitrary.The decision to use 18 years as the legal age of adulthood was arbitrary, as both age 17 and 19 were reasonable alternatives.
Anything arbitrary, such as an arithmetical value or a fee.1953,Samuel Beckett,Watt, Olympia Press:And in this long chain of consistence, a chain stretching from the long dead to the far unborn, the notion of the arbitrary could only survive as the notion of a pre-established arbitrary.
Determined by impulse rather than reason; heavy-handed.1937/1938, Albert Einstein, letter to Max BornThe Russian trials were Stalin's purges, with which he attempted to consolidate his power. Like most people in the West, I believed these show trials to be the arbitrary acts of a cruel dictator.1906, Gelett Burgess, Are You a Bromide?The bromide conforms to everything sanctioned by the majority, and may be depended upon to be trite, banal, and arbitrary.
1937/1938, Albert Einstein, letter to Max BornThe Russian trials were Stalin's purges, with which he attempted to consolidate his power. Like most people in the West, I believed these show trials to be the arbitrary acts of a cruel dictator.
German: willkürlich (de), arbiträr (de), eigenwillig (de), unbegründet (de), launenhaft, launisch (de)
1 English1.1 Etymology1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Adjective1.3.1 Derived terms1.3.2 Related terms1.3.3 Translations1.4 Noun1.4.1 Derived terms1.5 Further reading
arbitrary in Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, G. & C. Merriam, 1913
The Russian trials were Stalin's purges, with which he attempted to consolidate his power. Like most people in the West, I believed these show trials to be the arbitrary acts of a cruel dictator.
(mathematics) Any, out of all that are possible.The equation is true for an arbitrary value of x.
And in this long chain of consistence, a chain stretching from the long dead to the far unborn, the notion of the arbitrary could only survive as the notion of a pre-established arbitrary.
Indonesian: sembarang (id), siapa saja (id), apa saja (id), mana saja
The bromide conforms to everything sanctioned by the majority, and may be depended upon to be trite, banal, and arbitrary.
German: willkürlich (de), eigenmächtig (de), Willkür-, tyrannisch (de), rücksichtslos (de)
1953,Samuel Beckett,Watt, Olympia Press:And in this long chain of consistence, a chain stretching from the long dead to the far unborn, the notion of the arbitrary could only survive as the notion of a pre-established arbitrary.
From Middle English arbitrarie, Latin arbitrārius (“arbitrary, uncertain”), from arbiter (“witness, on-looker, listener, judge, overseer”).
