Although some narrow boats are built to a design based on river barges and many conform to the strict definition of the term, it is incorrect to refer to a narrowboat (or narrow boat) as a widebeam or as a barge, both of which are definable by their greater width. In the context of British inland waterways, a barge is usually a much wider, cargo-carrying boat or a modern boat modelled on one, certainly more than 7 feet (2.13 m) wide.[citation needed]
The name for this style arises from the large open rear deck resembling that of the large rear cockpits common on glass-fibre (glass-reinforced plastic or GRP) river cruisers which in turn derives from elliptical sterns used on cruisers and larger warships in the 20th century. At the stern, a "cruiser" narrowboat looks very different from traditional boats: the hatch and rear doors are considerably further forward than on a "trad", creating a large open deck between counter and rear doors, protected by railing (perhaps with built-in seating) around back and sides. The large rear deck provides a good al fresco dining area or social space, allowing people to congregate on deck in good weather and the summer holiday season.
Boating : British Waterways Archived 31 March 2006 at the Wayback Machine
Such as Terry Darlington's Channel crossing, related in "Narrow Dog to Carcassonne"
Modern narrowboats are used for holidays, weekend breaks, touring, or as permanent or part-time residences. Usually, they have steel hulls and a steel superstructure. The hull's flat base is usually 10mm thick, the hull sides 6mm or 8mm, the cabin sides 6mm, and the roof 4mm or 6mm. The numbers of boats have been rising, with the number of licensed boats (not all of them narrowboats) on canals and rivers managed by the Canal & River Trust (CRT) estimated at about 27,000 in 2006; by 2019, this had risen to 34,367.[2] Although a small number of steel narrowboats dispense with the need for a rear steering deck entirely, by imitating some river cruisers in providing wheel steering from a central cockpit, most narrowboats' steering is by a tiller on the stern. There are three major configurations for the stern: traditional stern, cruiser stern and semi-traditional stern.
"Virtual tour of NB Swallow at the Black County Living Museum"
Many modern canal boats retain the traditional layout of a small open, unguarded "counter" or deck behind the rear doors from which the crew can step onto land. It is possible to steer from the counter, but this is not very safe, with the propeller churning below only one missed step away. The "tiller extension" allows the steerer to stand in safety on the top step, forward of the rear doors. (On a working boat, this step would have been over the top of the coal box). On cold days, the steerer can even close the rear doors behind themselves, and be in relative comfort, their lower body in the warmth of the cabin, and only their upper body emerging from the hatchway and exposed to the elements. In good weather, many trad-stern steerers sit up on the hatchway edge, a high vantage point giving good all-round visibility. On trad boats, the bow "well-deck" forms the main outside viewing area, because the traditional stern is not large enough for anyone other than the steerer to stand on safely. Internally, trads may have an engine room forward of a traditional "boatman's cabin",[16] or an enclosed engine tucked away out of sight and the increased living space this brings.
A few people are doing their best in the 21st century to keep the tradition of canal-borne cargo-carrying alive, mostly by "one-off" deliveries rather than regular runs, or by selling goods such as coal to other boaters. Enthusiasts remain dedicated to restoring the remaining old narrow boats, often as members of the Historic Narrow Boat Owners Club.[8] There are many replicas, such as Hadar, ornately painted with traditional designs, usually of roses and castles. Boats not horse-drawn may have a refurbished, slow-revving, vintage semi-diesel engine. There are some steam-driven narrow boats such as the ex-Fellows Morton & Clayton steamer President.[9]
Some use a steering wheel at the back in place of the tiller (), some others use a centre cockpit(), and a few also have a front steering wheels as well as tillers at stern ()
^ a b "Leisure - Gloucester Pilots Partnership LLP". Retrieved 29 November 2022.
Hire fleets on British canals usually consist of narrow boats in varied lengths from 30 feet (9.14 m) upwards, to allow parties of different numbers or varying budgets to be able to hire a boat and get afloat.[6]
Boatmen's families originally lived ashore, but in the 1830s as canals started to suffer competition from the burgeoning railway system, families (especially those of independent single boat owner/skippers) began to live on board, partly because they could no longer afford rents, partly to provide extra hands to work the boats harder, faster and further, partly to keep families together. As late as 1858, a Household Words article states that "the Grand Junction Canal company did not allow the boatmen's families on board." The crew of the non-stopping ("fly") boat in the article (skipper, two crew and a "youth") is said to be typical.[citation needed]
The number of licensed boats on canals and rivers managed by the Canal & River Trust (CRT), a charitable trust, formerly British Waterways, was estimated at about 27,000 in 2006. By 2014 this number had risen to over 30,000. There were perhaps another 5,000 unlicensed boats kept in private moorings or on other waterways in 2006.[11] Most boats on CRT waterways are steel (or occasionally, aluminium) cruisers popularly referred to as narrowboats.
Richardson, Christine (2006). Chesterfield History Nuggets. Richlow Histories. ISBN 0-9552609-1-4
Because of their slenderness, some narrowboats seem very long.The maximum length is about 72 feet (21.95 m), which matches the length of the longest locks on the system. Modern narrowboats tend to be shorter, to permit cruising anywhere on the connected network of British canals — including on canals built for wider, but shorter, boats.The shortest lock on the main network is Salterhebble Middle Lock on the Calder and Hebble Navigation, at about 56 feet (17.07 m) long. However, the C&H is a wide canal, so the lock is about 14 feet 2 inches (4.32 m) wide. This makes the largest "go-anywhere-on-the-network" narrowboat slightly longer (about 58 feet or 17.68 metres) than the straight length of the lock, because it can (with a certain amount of "shoehorning") lie diagonally. Some locks on isolated waterways are as short as 40 feet (12.19 m). Where it was possible to avoid going through locks, narrow boats were sometimes built a little larger.[4] Wharf boats or more usually 'Amptons, operated on the Wolverhampton level of the Birmingham Canal Navigations and were up to 89 feet in length and 7 foot 10.5 inches wide.[4][5]
The rear portion of the boat became the "boatman's cabin", familiar from picture postcards and museums, famous for its space-saving ingenuity and interior made attractive by a warm stove, a steaming kettle, gleaming brass, fancy lace, painted housewares and decorated plates. Such descriptions rarely consider the actual comfort of a (sometimes large) family, working brutally hard and long days, sleeping in one tiny cabin. However many shore-bound workers endured harder indoor trades in less healthy conditions and in worse accommodation, where the family was separated for long hours rather than being together all day. The lifestyle afloat, by definition itinerant, made it impossible for children to attend school. Most boat people were effectively illiterate and ostracised by those living "on the bank", who considered themselves superior.[citation needed]
^ Richardson, Christine (2006). Chesterfield History Nuggets. Richlow Histories. ISBN 0-9552609-1-4
Cargo-carrying by narrow boat diminished from 1945 and the last regular long-distance traffic disappeared in 1970. However, some traffic continued into the 1980s and beyond. Two million tonnes of aggregate were carried on the Grand Union (River Soar) between 1976 and 1996, latterly using wide beam barges. Aggregate continues to be carried between Denham and West Drayton on the (wide) Grand Union Canal and on the tidal estuary of Bow Creek (which is the eventual outflow of the Lee & Stort Navigation).
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
The single word "narrowboat" has been adopted by authorities such as the Canal and River Trust, Scottish Canals and the authoritativemagazine Waterways World to refer to all boats built in the style and tradition of commercial boats that were able to fit in the narrow canal locks.[citation needed]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Why more people are choosing to live on canal boats". Financial Times. 2 September 2016. Archived from the original on 10 December 2022. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
While the practice declined as commercial use of the canals dwindled, it has seen something of a revival in recent times with the emergence of leisure boating. Narrowboat decoration with roses and castle themes are a common sight on today's canals, although these may utilise cheaper printed vinyl transfers in place of the traditional craft of hand-painted designs.
For any boat to enter a narrow lock, it must be under 7 feet (2.13 m) wide, so most narrowboats are nominally6 feet 10 inches (2.08 m) wide. A narrowboat's maximum length is generally 72 feet (21.95 m), as anything longer will be unable to navigate much of the British canal network, because the nominal maximum length of locks is 75 feet (22.86 m). Some locks are shorter than 72 feet (21.95 m), so to access the entire canal network the maximum length is 57 feet (17.37 m).
Earlier quotations listed in the Oxford English Dictionary use the term "narrow boat", with the most recent, a quotation from an advertisement in Canal Boat & Inland Waterways in 1998, uses "narrowboat".
"Mobile canal narrow boat & barge mechanical and electrical engineers". Canal Junction. Retrieved 4 October 2020.
^ "Canal and River Trust Annual Report" (PDF). Annual Report and Accounts 2018/19: 17–18 (PDF 19–20). 2019. Retrieved 30 August 2020.
3Development — traditional working boats											Toggle Development — traditional working boats subsection																					3.1Painted decoration
Another historic term for a narrow boat is a long boat, which has been noted in the Midlands and especially on the River Severn and connecting waterways to Birmingham.[citation needed]
Media related to Narrowboats with front steering at Wikimedia Commons
The first narrow boats played a key part in the economic changes of the British Industrial Revolution.They were wooden boats drawn by a horse walking on the canal towpath led by a crew member, often a child. Narrow boats were chiefly designed for carrying cargo, though some packet boats carried passengers, luggage, mail and parcels.
"Mobile canal narrow boat & barge mechanical and electrical engineers"
Modern leisure narrowboats are used for holidays, weekend breaks, touring, as permanent or part-time residences. Usually, they have steel hulls and a steel superstructure, but when they were first being developed for leisure use in the 1970s glass reinforced plastic (fibre-glass) or timber was often used above gunwale height. Newer narrowboats, say post 1990, are usually powered by modern diesel engines and may be fitted inside to a high standard.There will be at least 6 feet (1.8 m) internal headroom and often or usually similar domestic facilities as land homes: central heating, flush toilets, shower or even bath, four-ring hobs, oven, grill, microwave oven, and refrigerator; some may have satellite television and mobile broadband, using 4G or LTE technology. Externally, their resemblance to traditional boats can vary from a faithful imitation (false "rivets", and copies of traditional paintwork) through "interpretation" (clean lines and simplified paintwork) through to a free-style approach which does not try to pretend in any way that this is a traditional boat.
"Equipment | safety | RYA". www.rya.org.uk. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
The first canals to feature locks in the now standard size were the canals designed by James Brindley and approved by Parliament in 1766, including the Staffordshire and Worcestershire Canal and Trent and Mersey Canal. Although construction took many years, the lock size became standard for many canal building projects.
While the vast majority of narrowboats have tiller steering at the stern, a small number of steel narrowboats dispense with the need for a rear steering deck entirely, by imitating some river cruisers in providing wheel steering from a central cockpit.[15] This layout has the advantage (as have many Dutch barges) of enabling an aft cabin to be separate from the forward accommodation.
^ "Equipment | safety | RYA". www.rya.org.uk. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
^ a b Ware, Michael E (1980). "Birmingham and the Black Country". Narrow Boats at Work. Moorland Publishing. ISBN 0-86190-144-4.
^ "Virtual tour of NB Swallow at the Black County Living Museum". haraldjoergens.com. Archived from the original on 13 April 2018.
National Community Boats Association — a federation of organisations running narrow and other boats on navigable waterways for the benefit of the community.
In the 18th century, similar Dutch Hindeloopen paintwork would only have been a sailing barge journey away from the Thames. There is also an article in the Midland Daily Telegraph of 22 July 1914 that credits the practice of painting of water cans, at least, to a Mr Arthur Atkins.
Narrowboats are "Category D" boats under the Recreational Craft Directive, intended only for navigating inland- rivers, canals and small lakes - but under the professional supervision of a suitable local pilot, limited coastal passages linking inland waterways, such as along the tidal Severn Estuary between Bristol and Sharpness, can also be safely made in calm weather.[19] Insurers will often require a pilot for these hazardous areas, and temporary modifications to improve seaworthiness such as waterproof coverings for bow doors and air vents close to the waterline.[19] Some intrepid boaters have crossed the English Channel in a narrowboat.[20]
^ Woolfitt, Susan (1947). Idle Women. London: Benn. p. 59. OCLC 14967671.
Media related to Narrowboats with centre steering at Wikimedia Commons
4.1Types																								4.1.1Traditional stern																											4.1.2Cruiser stern																											4.1.3Semi-traditional stern																											4.1.4With a butty stern																											4.1.5Centre cockpit
Woolfitt, Susan (1947). Idle Women. London: Benn. p. 59. OCLC 14967671.
^ "Inland Waterways Diesel & Pumpout Price Survey". diesel.fibrefactory.co.uk. 30 September 2020. Retrieved 4 October 2020. — Services provided by narrowboats are prefixed "NB"
"Why more people are choosing to live on canal boats"
Ware, Michael E (1980). "Birmingham and the Black Country". Narrow Boats at Work. Moorland Publishing. ISBN 0-86190-144-4.
"Inland Waterways Diesel & Pumpout Price Survey". diesel.fibrefactory.co.uk. 30 September 2020. Retrieved 4 October 2020. — Services provided by narrowboats are prefixed "NB"
^ "Mobile canal narrow boat & barge mechanical and electrical engineers". Canal Junction. Retrieved 4 October 2020.
"Canal and River Trust Annual Report" (PDF). Annual Report and Accounts 2018/19: 17–18 (PDF 19–20). 2019. Retrieved 30 August 2020.
"Canal narrow boat heating, water, sanitation systems & services listed with contact details". Canal Junction. Retrieved 4 October 2020.
^ "Canal narrow boat heating, water, sanitation systems & services listed with contact details". Canal Junction. Retrieved 4 October 2020.
^ "Butty". OED (Second, online version ed.). June 2011 [1989]. Retrieved 10 August 2011. Earlier version first published in New English Dictionary, 1888.
A narrowboat is a particular type of canal boat, built to fit the narrow locks of the United Kingdom. The UK's canal system provided a nationwide transport network during the Industrial Revolution, but with the advent of the railways, commercial canal traffic gradually diminished and the last regular long-distance transportation of goods by canal had virtually disappeared by 1970. However, some commercial traffic continued. From the 1970s onward narrowboats were gradually beingconverted into permanent residences or as holiday lettings. Currently, about 8580 narrowboats are registered as 'permanent homes' on Britain's waterway system[1] and represent a growing alternative community living on semi-permanent moorings or continuously cruising.
The key distinguishing feature of a narrowboat is its width, which must be less than 7 feet (2.13 m) wide to navigate British narrow canals. Some old boats are very close to this limit (often built .mw-parser-output .frac{white-space:nowrap}.mw-parser-output .frac .num,.mw-parser-output .frac .den{font-size:80%;line-height:0;vertical-align:super}.mw-parser-output .frac .den{vertical-align:sub}.mw-parser-output .sr-only{border:0;clip:rect(0,0,0,0);height:1px;margin:-1px;overflow:hidden;padding:0;position:absolute;width:1px}7 feet 1+1⁄2 inches or 2.17 metres or slightly wider), and can have trouble using certain narrow locks whose width has been reduced over time because of subsidence. Modern boats are usually produced to a maximum of 6 feet 10 inches (2.08 m) wide to guarantee easy passage throughout the complete system.
^ "Narrowboat or barge? Canal boats explained". boats.com. 15 June 2014. Retrieved 21 March 2017.
^ Boating : British Waterways Archived 31 March 2006 at the Wayback Machine
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Why more people are choosing to live on canal boats". Financial Times. 2 September 2016. Archived from the original on 10 December 2022. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
In all cases beyond inland use, familiarity with coastal safety such as:
A butty boat is an unpowered boat traditionally with a larger rudder with (usually) a wooden tiller (known as an elum, a corruption of helm[17]) as the steering does not benefit from the force of water generated by the propeller so the rudder must be of a larger area. The tiller is usually removed and reversed in the rudder-post socket to get it out of the way when moored. A few butty boats have been converted into powered narrowboats like NB Sirius. The term butty is derived from the dialect word buddy, meaning companion.[18]
A semi-traditional stern is a compromise to gain some of the "social" benefits of a cruiser stern, while retaining a more traditional design and providing some protection for the steerer in bad weather or in cooler seasons. As with the cruiser stern, the deck is extended back from the hatch and rear doors, but in this case most of the deck is protected at the sides by walls which extend back from the cabin sides – giving a more sheltered area for the steerer and companions, usually with lockers to sit on. The engine is located under the deck, much like a cruiser, again allowing a separation between the cabin and the engine bay, with the steps down to the cabin being located past the false sides of the "semi-trad" social area.
Usage has not quite settled as regards (a) boats based on narrowboat design, but too wide for narrow canals; or (b) boats the same width as narrowboats but based on other types of boat.[citation needed]
The first narrow boats played a key role in the economic changes of the British Industrial Revolution.They were wooden boats drawn by a horse walking on the canal towpath led by a crew member. Horses were gradually replaced by steam and then diesel engines. By the end of the 19th century it was common practice to paint roses and castles on narrowboats and their fixtures and fittings. This tradition has continued into the 21st century, but not all narrowboats have such decorations.
In winter (or less than perfect weather of summer) the steerer may be unprotected from the elements. The lack of an enclosed engine room means that engine heat does not contribute to keeping the boat warm and there may be "wasted" space above the deck area. A "cruiser" stern allows the engine to be located under the deck, rather than in the body of the boat. Although this may make access to the engine more of a nuisance (due to weather considerations) the whole deck can usually be lifted off in whole or in sections, allowing the operative to stand inside the engine bay, the cruiser stern has a major advantage that the engine is located entirely outside the living space. In this configuration also, it is common to find that the engine bay contains batteries, isolator switching, fuel tanks and seldom-used kit, spares and equipment.
"Canal narrow boat heating, water, sanitation systems & services listed with contact details"
"Leisure - Gloucester Pilots Partnership LLP". Retrieved 29 November 2022.
The narrowboat (one word) definition in the Oxford English Dictionary is:[3]
4Modern narrowboats											Toggle Modern narrowboats subsection																					4.1Types																								4.1.1Traditional stern																											4.1.2Cruiser stern																											4.1.3Semi-traditional stern																											4.1.4With a butty stern																											4.1.5Centre cockpit																														4.2Capabilities and limitations
A support infrastructure has developed to provide services to the leisure boats, with some narrowboats being used as platforms to provide services such as engine maintenance and boat surveys; while some others are used as fuel tenders, that provide diesel, solid fuel (coal and wood) and Calor Gas.[12][13][14]
National Association of Boat Owners (NABO) — 3,000 members in 2004. They publish one of the few in-print books about living aboard a narrowboat, Living Afloat (2005). See also 'Living Aboard', The History Press (2008).
^ a b Some use a steering wheel at the back in place of the tiller (), some others use a centre cockpit(), and a few also have a front steering wheels as well as tillers at stern ()
^ Such as Terry Darlington's Channel crossing, related in "Narrow Dog to Carcassonne"
"Narrowboat or barge? Canal boats explained". boats.com. 15 June 2014. Retrieved 21 March 2017.
A so-called “Pram cover” can be fitted to a cruiser stern. Named after a baby pram, this usually consists of a cloth cover on a folding metal frame. When erected, this encloses the cruiser stern, allowing more-comfortable operation of the boat in cold or inclement weather.
A British canal boat of traditional long, narrow design, steered with a tiller; spec. one not exceeding 7 feet (approx. 2.1 metres) in width or 72 feet (approx. 21.9 metres) in length
On almost all narrowboats steering is by tiller, as was the case on all working narrow boats.[15] The steerer stands at the stern of the boat, aft of the hatchway and/or rear doors at the top of the steps up from the cabin. The steering area comes in three basic types, each meeting different needs of maximising internal space; having a more traditional appearance; having a big enough rear deck for everyone to enjoy summer weather or long evenings; or protection outside in bad weather. Each type has its advocates. However, the boundaries are not fixed, and some boats blur the categories as new designers try out different arrangements and combinations.
The origin of the roses and castles found on canal boats is unclear. The first written reference to them appears to be in an 1858 edition of the magazine Household Words in one of a series of articles titled "On the Canal", showing that the art form must have existed by this date. For some time, a popular suggestion was that it had some form of Romani origin; however, there does not appear to be a significant link between the Romani and boating communities. Other suggestions include transfer of styles from the clock-making industry (in particular the decoration on the face), the japanning industry or the pottery industry. There is certainly a similarity in style and a geographical overlap, but no solid proof of a link. There are similar styles of folk art in Scandinavia, Germany, Turkey and Bangladesh.
This page was last edited on 10 December 2022, at 22:33 (UTC).
Media related to Narrowboats with a steering wheel at the stern at Wikimedia Commons
Inland Waterways Association — campaigns for the use, maintenance, and restoration of Britain's inland waterways
They are owned by individuals, shared by a group of friends (or by a more formally organised syndicate), rented out by holiday firms, or used as cruising hotels. A few boats are lived on permanently: either based in one place (though long-term moorings for residential narrowboats are currently very difficult to find) or continuously moving around the network (perhaps with a fixed location for the coldest months, when many stretches of canal are closed by repair works or "stoppages").
As steam and diesel progressively replaced the tow-horse in the early years of the 20th century, it became possible to move even more cargo with fewer hands by towing a second, un-powered boat, referred to as a "butty", "buttyboat" or "butty boat". Although there was no longer a horse to maintain, the butty had to be steered while being towed. So that the butty boatman could lengthen or shorten towline as needed, the towline wasn't tied-off on the bow, instead travelled over the buttyboat through permanent running blocks on stands or retractable middle masts and managed in the stern.[7]On a wide canal, such as the Grand Union Canal, the pair could be roped side-to-side ("breasted up") and handled as a unit through working locks.
"Butty". OED (Second, online version ed.). June 2011 [1989]. Retrieved 10 August 2011. Earlier version first published in New English Dictionary, 1888.
"Virtual tour of NB Swallow at the Black County Living Museum". haraldjoergens.com. Archived from the original on 13 April 2018.
This page was last edited on 25 February 2023, at 23:54 (UTC).
Narrow (album), a 2012 album by Austrian musical project Soap&Skin
Narrow banking, proposed banking system that would eliminate bank runs and the need for a deposit insurance
Narrowboat or narrow boat, a boat of a distinctive design made to fit the narrow canals of Great Britain
Narrow-gauge railway, a railway that has a track gauge narrower than the 4 ft 8½ in of standard gauge railways
Narrow vs wide format, a style of displaying tabular data
Baker, William Henry (1901). Clothes dictionary;. The Library of Congress. Chicago, Ill., U.S.A., Cahn, Wampold & co. p. 27. Narrow Cloth — Trade term for fabrics less than 29 inches wide ; wider cloths called broad
Cases Decided in United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals: Customs Cases Adjudged in the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals
An early fully-automated loom. The arms at the sides can be seen swinging to bash the flying shuttle back and forth.
This weaver is weaving a piece of cloth about as wide as he can span. Hooghly district, West Bengal.
In the United States in the early 19-hundreds, fabrics with a width of less than 29 inches (74 cm) were classed as narrow cloth; wider fabrics were classed as broadcloth.[16]: 27 [5] The American 1909 Webster's dictionary (as reprinted in 1913) defines broadcloth as 1.5 yards (140 cm), and narrow cloth as 0.75 yards (69 cm), but also gives the newer definition based on the type of cloth.
In England, efforts were made to standardize the width of cloth, to promote mercery. The first on record is the Assize of Cloth (also called the Assize of Measures), which was first introduced in the reign of Richard I (1189 - 1199). It defined two English ells (then 74 inches, 190 cm[11][better source needed]) as the only legal breadth for woolen cloth. Article 35 of the Magna Carta reaffirmed this standard;[1] it said "There shall be standard measures of wine, ale, and corn (the London quarter), throughout the kingdom. There shall also be a standard width of dyed [generally wollen] cloth, russet, and haberject, namely two ells within the selvedges. Weights are to be standardised similarly."[12] In the reign of Edward I (1272 - 1307), an official called the king's alnager was appointed to enforce the law, and all towns were required to have an accurate ellwand (measuring stick one ell in length).[13][1] These rules were repealed in 1353, because imports and varying types of wool made them impractical.[1] In 1665, in the reign of Charles II, the office of alnager was revived. Two standard widths were defined: widths of 2 yards (180 cm) were called broadcloth, and widths of 1 yard (91 cm), narrow cloth. The office of the alnager was abolished again in 1699.[1] See Weights and Measures Acts (UK)#England for details.
Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Alnage" (free fulltext), from the Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 01 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 719; lines two and three from end. Owing to the introduction of the alternative standard, a distinction arose between “broadcloth” (cloth of two yards) and “streit” or “strait” (narrow cloth of one yard).
^ a b Freund, Kimberlie and Norton, Marjorie J.T., Broadwoven Fabrics, USITC Publication 3410: 4 ISBN 1-4289-5826-6. Free public-domain fulltext.
Observations on Milling Broad and Narrow Cloth, &c: Shewing I. The Many Destructive Errors that Attend the Common Method of Milling, and Reading Or Tighting of Cloth, During Its Milling. And, II. The Many Advantages that Accrue, Instead Thereof, from the Use of a New Instrument, Called a Regulator. To which is Annexed, A Certificate Signed by Several of the Most Eminent Clothiers in the Superfine Trade. By Richard Brooks, Clothier, Inventor of the Said Regulator, and Patentee, at the Devizes, in the County of Wilts
Saris often use cloth a bit wider than the wearer's waist height, and may, as here, be close to the maximum width a weaver can span. Mothkur, Telangana State, India
Bischoff, James (1842). A Comprehensive History of the Woollen and Worsted Manufactures, and the Natural and Commercial History of Sheep, from the Earliest Records to the Present Period. Smith, Elder. Therearetwodescriptionsat woollengoodsexportedtoIreland,onebroadcloth,theother narrowcloth.TheaveragepriceofnarrowclothIestimate atthreeshillingsandfourpenceperyard ;thelowestgeneral pricebeingoneshillingandeightpenceperyard.The averagepriceofbroadclothexportedtoIrelandIshouldestimate atsixshillingsandeightpenceperyard.
"Narrow cloth" (streit, strait,[1] narrow ware articles, narrow ware woven[2]) is cloth of a comparatively narrow width, generally less than a human armspan; precise definitions vary.
Murphy, William S. (1910). The textile industries : a practical guide to fibres, yarns & fabrics in every branch of textile manufacture, including preparation of fibres, spinning, doubling, designing, weaving, bleaching, printing, dyeing and finishing. University of Massachusetts Dartmouth Claire T. Carney Library. London : The Gresham Publishing Company. p. 20.
^ Chaudhuri, K. N. (2006-11-23). The Trading World of Asia and the English East India Company: 1660-1760. Cambridge University Press. p. 222. ISBN 978-0-521-03159-2.
The narrow cloth had several variations and was famous as like broadcloths;[clarification needed] due to the narrower width, they were less prone to shrinkage[clarification needed] and thus required less milling.[10]: 8
Traditional Hlai narrow cloth brocades are woven on a bamboo backstrap loom braced with the feet
Courts, Witney (England) Borough (1985). Oxfordshire Record Society. Produced for the Society by A. Sutton. pp. LXXCV, XCV. ISBN 978-0-902509-18-4.
Bodey, Hugh (1976). Textiles. Internet Archive. London : B. T. Batsford. ISBN 978-0-7134-3052-3.
In the late-sixteen- and seventeen-hundreds, English merchants exported broadcloth to both the Levant and the Indies. This cloth was defined as having a breadth greater than a 1.25 yards (114 cm). Anything narrower was narrow cloth.[14]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Appeals, United States Court of Customs and Patent (1971). Cases Decided in United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals: Customs Cases Adjudged in the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals. The Court. p. 121.
"About the size of tanmono (a roll of kimono cloth)". hirotatsumugi.jp. Hirota Tsumugi. Archived from the original on 4 July 2020. Retrieved 27 January 2020.
James Bischoff noted in his 1842 publication, A Comprehensive History of the Woollen, and Worsted Manufactures, that British woolens were imported into Ireland with two different descriptions, broadcloth and narrow cloth. These were priced (per yard length) at six shillings fourpence and three shillings eightpence, respectively. He did not mention whether the two were distinguished by width,[15]: 326  but the doubling of price suggests that broadcloth was similar to narrow cloth except for being twice the width.
The textile industries : a practical guide to fibres, yarns & fabrics in every branch of textile manufacture, including preparation of fibres, spinning, doubling, designing, weaving, bleaching, printing, dyeing and finishing
Hauser-Schaublin, Brigitta; Hauser-Schäublin, Brigitta; Nabholz-Kartaschoff, Marie-Louise; Ramseyer, Urs (1997). Balinese Textiles. Periplus Editions (HK) Limited. p. 120. ISBN 978-962-593-158-6.
Weaving a rebozo on a backstrap loom in Santa María del Río, San Luis Potosí, Mexico
Wider widths once had to be woven with a person on each side of the loom, usually the master weaver and an apprentice, throwing the shuttle back and forth between them.[6]: 29 [3] In 1733, the flying shuttle was invented. Flying shuttles made it possible for a single hand weaver to weave widths greater than their armspan, halving the labour required to make broadcloth.[7] Fabric widths became limited by the impracticality of transporting very wide bolts and looms.
"About the size of tanmono (a roll of kimono cloth)"
^ a b Murphy, William S. (1910). The textile industries : a practical guide to fibres, yarns & fabrics in every branch of textile manufacture, including preparation of fibres, spinning, doubling, designing, weaving, bleaching, printing, dyeing and finishing. University of Massachusetts Dartmouth Claire T. Carney Library. London : The Gresham Publishing Company. p. 20.
A weaver passes the shuttle through the shed of her treadle loom.
Freund, Kimberlie and Norton, Marjorie J.T., Broadwoven Fabrics, USITC Publication 3410: 4 ISBN 1-4289-5826-6. Free public-domain fulltext.
^ Brooks, Richard (1743). Observations on Milling Broad and Narrow Cloth, &c: Shewing I. The Many Destructive Errors that Attend the Common Method of Milling, and Reading Or Tighting of Cloth, During Its Milling. And, II. The Many Advantages that Accrue, Instead Thereof, from the Use of a New Instrument, Called a Regulator. To which is Annexed, A Certificate Signed by Several of the Most Eminent Clothiers in the Superfine Trade. By Richard Brooks, Clothier, Inventor of the Said Regulator, and Patentee, at the Devizes, in the County of Wilts. author in the year.
Historically, human factors and ergonomics limited the width that could practically be woven by a single weaver on a handloom. The weaver had to be able to reach both edges of the cloth, so they could throw the shuttle through the shed. A weaver thus could not weave a bolt wider than their armspan.[3] So cloth was typically made in narrow widths on narrow-width handlooms.[4][5]
In the 1990s, the US government defined "broadwoven fabrics" and "narrow woven fabrics", with a breadth cutoff of 30 centimeters (about 12 inches) (per the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States). By this definition, the US government estimates that 70-75% of all cloth production globally, by weight, is broadwoven.[9]
^ Fischer, Joseph (1979). Threads of Tradition: Textiles of Indonesia and Sarawak : Lowie Museum of Anthropology, University Art Museum, Berkeley, University of California, Berkeley, California. University of California. p. 37.
Threads of Tradition: Textiles of Indonesia and Sarawak : Lowie Museum of Anthropology, University Art Museum, Berkeley, University of California, Berkeley, California
^ Hauser-Schaublin, Brigitta; Hauser-Schäublin, Brigitta; Nabholz-Kartaschoff, Marie-Louise; Ramseyer, Urs (1997). Balinese Textiles. Periplus Editions (HK) Limited. p. 120. ISBN 978-962-593-158-6.
^ a b c d e f Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Alnage" (free fulltext), from the Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 01 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 719; lines two and three from end. Owing to the introduction of the alternative standard, a distinction arose between “broadcloth” (cloth of two yards) and “streit” or “strait” (narrow cloth of one yard).
Various maximum measures of breadth were used to legally define narrow cloth, and "broadcloth" was often regulated to be twice the width of narrow cloth .mw-parser-output div.crossreference{padding-left:0}.mw-parser-output .hatnote{font-style:italic}.mw-parser-output div.hatnote{padding-left:1.6em;margin-bottom:0.5em}.mw-parser-output .hatnote i{font-style:normal}.mw-parser-output .hatnote+link+.hatnote{margin-top:-0.5em}(see historic definitions, below). The word "broadcloth" was originally used just as an antonym to "narrow cloth", but later came to mean a particular type of cloth (see broadcloth).[1] The 1909 Webster's dictionary (as reprinted in 1913) defines broadcloth as "A fine smooth-faced woolen cloth for men's garments, usually of double width".[8] thus giving both the old breadth-based distinction and the newer definition based on the type of cloth. Broadwoven and narrow woven are unambiguous terms, used by the US government.[9]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Appeals, United States Court of Customs and Patent (1971). Cases Decided in United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals: Customs Cases Adjudged in the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals. The Court. p. 121.
Tanmono, traditional narrow Japanese fabric bolts. This is cotton dyed with indigo before weaving (kasuri) Behind is a yukata (type of kimono) made from this cloth.
This page was last edited on 8 January 2023, at 17:50 (UTC).
^ Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Weights and Measures" (free fulltext), from the Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 01 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press.
A Comprehensive History of the Woollen and Worsted Manufactures, and the Natural and Commercial History of Sheep, from the Earliest Records to the Present Period
^ a b "About the size of tanmono (a roll of kimono cloth)". hirotatsumugi.jp. Hirota Tsumugi. Archived from the original on 4 July 2020. Retrieved 27 January 2020.
Preparing to weave geringsing on a back-strap loom. Geringseng is a culturally-significant double ikat fabric of Bali.[17][18]
Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Weights and Measures" (free fulltext), from the Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 01 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press.
^ Baker, William Henry (1901). Clothes dictionary;. The Library of Congress. Chicago, Ill., U.S.A., Cahn, Wampold & co. p. 27. Narrow Cloth — Trade term for fabrics less than 29 inches wide ; wider cloths called broad
Brooks, Richard (1743). Observations on Milling Broad and Narrow Cloth, &c: Shewing I. The Many Destructive Errors that Attend the Common Method of Milling, and Reading Or Tighting of Cloth, During Its Milling. And, II. The Many Advantages that Accrue, Instead Thereof, from the Use of a New Instrument, Called a Regulator. To which is Annexed, A Certificate Signed by Several of the Most Eminent Clothiers in the Superfine Trade. By Richard Brooks, Clothier, Inventor of the Said Regulator, and Patentee, at the Devizes, in the County of Wilts. author in the year.
^ Bischoff, James (1842). A Comprehensive History of the Woollen and Worsted Manufactures, and the Natural and Commercial History of Sheep, from the Earliest Records to the Present Period. Smith, Elder. Therearetwodescriptionsat woollengoodsexportedtoIreland,onebroadcloth,theother narrowcloth.TheaveragepriceofnarrowclothIestimate atthreeshillingsandfourpenceperyard ;thelowestgeneral pricebeingoneshillingandeightpenceperyard.The averagepriceofbroadclothexportedtoIrelandIshouldestimate atsixshillingsandeightpenceperyard.
Chaudhuri, K. N. (2006-11-23). The Trading World of Asia and the English East India Company: 1660-1760. Cambridge University Press. p. 222. ISBN 978-0-521-03159-2.
The Trading World of Asia and the English East India Company: 1660-1760
^ Courts, Witney (England) Borough (1985). Oxfordshire Record Society. Produced for the Society by A. Sutton. pp. LXXCV, XCV. ISBN 978-0-902509-18-4.
Fischer, Joseph (1979). Threads of Tradition: Textiles of Indonesia and Sarawak : Lowie Museum of Anthropology, University Art Museum, Berkeley, University of California, Berkeley, California. University of California. p. 37.
^ Bodey, Hugh (1976). Textiles. Internet Archive. London : B. T. Batsford. ISBN 978-0-7134-3052-3.
Weaving narrow cloth on a back-strap loom in Guatamala; finished narrow cloth is hung above
Narrow-loom cloth is still made by in artisanal weaving. Traditional-format textiles in narrow widths are also machine-made. These are used from making traditional garments and other traditional textile items.
