Paternalism is the interference of a state or an individual withanother person, against their will, and defended or motivated by aclaim that the person interfered with will be better off or protectedfrom harm. The issue of paternalism arises with respect torestrictions by the law such as anti-drug legislation, the compulsorywearing of seatbelts, and in medical contexts by the withholding ofrelevant information concerning a patient’s condition byphysicians. At the theoretical level it raises questions of howpersons should be treated when they are less than fully rational.
Conly, Sarah, 2012, Against Autonomy: Justifying CoercivePaternalism, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gostin, Lawrence O. and Kieran G. Gostin, 2009, “A broaderliberty: J. S. Mill, Paternalism and the Public’s Health”,Public Health, 123: 214–22.doi:10.1016/j.puhe.2008.12.024
10% of the patients who have the operation die.(mortality rate)
Open access to the SEP is made possible by a world-wide funding initiative.The Encyclopedia Now Needs Your SupportPlease Read How You Can Help Keep the Encyclopedia Free
Paternalistic lies, and other forms of deception such as truthful but misleading assertions, raise interesting conceptual as well as normative issues.Unlike coercion which makes certainchoices more costly, and hence restricts agents’ options, many lies make it more difficult for theagent to take certain options without increasing their cost. Further this difficulty is hidden from the person being lied to. This raises the issue of what exactly are the features of theperson being lied to which are affected.Is it her liberty, her freedom, her autonomy? Is itthe voluntariness of her action? Is it none of these things but something like her ability toaccomplish her aims? Thinking about these questions is important in evaluating whether, and when,paternalistic lies are justifiable.
Suppose we prevent persons from manufacturing cigarettes because webelieve they are harmful to consumers. The group we are trying toprotect is the group of consumers not manufacturers (who may not besmokers at all). Our reason for interfering with the manufacturer isthat he is causing harm to others. Nevertheless the basicjustification is paternalist because the consumer consents (assumingthe relevant information is available to him) to the harm. It is notlike the case where we prevent manufacturers from polluting the air.In pure paternalism the class being protected is identical with theclass being interfered with, e.g., preventing swimmers from swimmingwhen lifeguards are not present. In the case of impure paternalism theclass of persons interfered with is larger than the class beingprotected.
Another issue concerning autonomy is whether it is affected by bothintentional and unintentional nudges. If the cafeteria manager placesthe food at random she will still be influencing people’schoices. Are the choices more autonomous in this case than in a casein which the food is placed in exactly the same way but deliberatelyin order to affect the choices?
Libertarian Paternalism is the set of interventions aimed atovercoming the unavoidable cognitive biases and decisionalinadequacies of an individual by exploiting them in such a way as toinfluence her decisions (in an easily reversible manner) towards thechoices she herself would make under idealised conditions. (Rebanato2012: 6)
Kultgen, John, 1995, Autonomy and Intervention: Paternalism inthe Caring Life, New York City: Oxford University Press.
Finally, it is important to distinguish paternalism, whether welfareor moral, from other ideas used to justify interference with persons;even cases where the interference is not justified in terms ofprotecting or promoting the interests of others. In particular moralpaternalism should be distinguished from legal moralism, i.e., theidea that certain ways of acting are morally wrong or degrading andmay be prohibited. So, for example, the barroom “sport” ofdwarf tossing (where dwarfs who are paid, and are protected withhelmets, etc. participate in contests to see who can throw themfurthest) might be thought to be legitimately prohibited. Not becausethe dwarf is injured in any way, not because the dwarf corruptshimself by agreeing to participate in such activities, but simplybecause the activity is wrong.
Goodin, Robert E., 1991, “Permissible Paternalism: SavingSmokers from Themselves”, The Responsive Community 1:42–51.[Republished in LaFollette, Hugh (ed.), 2014, Ethics in Practice:An Anthology, Hoboken: Wiley-Blackwell.]
Framing effects: It is one of the most confirmed findings of empiricaldecision theory that subjects decisions are affected by different waysof presenting information. For example, in deciding on whether to havean operation which can cure one’s disease but has thepossibility of causing death how one chooses is affected by whetherone is told (A) or (B):
This discussion is about lying not deception. One can deceive withoutlying, e.g. by asserting something which you believe true but fromwhich you know that the hearer will infer something false.Or by notasserting at all as when a husband replaces his sleeping pills withcough medicine to prevent his wife from harming herself.By a lie Imean an assertion P by A who does not believethat P and intends a listener to either come to believe thatP or at least to believe that A believesthat P.
Nudges which are neither narrow nor broad—such as subliminalmessages to movie-goers to buy fruit instead of popcorn—might bean effective way of encouraging consumption of healthier food. Butthey seem to have a morally dubious character. Even if the facts arethat such messages have rather weak efficacy we object to theirby-passing any possibility to avoid or resist them.
First published Wed Nov 6, 2002; substantive revision Wed Sep 9, 2020
Why might one think that at least the state may never do so? One mightthink so because of various beliefs about the impossibility of in factdoing good for people against their will or because one thinks thatalthough possible to do good it is in fact inconsistent with somenormative standard which ought to prevail.
If one believes that sometimes paternalism is justifiable one may doso for various kinds of theoretical reasons. The broadest is simplyconsequentialist, i.e., more good than harm is produced. A narrowerjustification is that sometimes the individual’s (long-run)autonomy is advanced by restricting his autonomy (short-run). So onemight prevent people from taking mind-destroying drugs on the groundsthat allowing them to do so destroys their autonomy and preventingthem from doing so preserves it. This is essentially Mill’sargument against allowing people to contract into slavery. Note thatif the theory of the good associated with a particularconsequentialism is broad enough, i.e., includes autonomy as one ofthe goods, it can be equivalent to the autonomy theory (assuming thatthe structure of the autonomy view is a maximizing one).
VanDeVeer, Donald, 1986, Paternalistic Intervention: The MoralBounds on Benevolence, Princeton, NJ: Princeton UniversityPress.
4. Libertarian Paternalism4.1 Definitional issues 4.2 Normative Issues 4.3 Transparency 4.4 Harnessing Bad Reasoning 4.5 Manipulation
This entry examines some of the conceptual issues involved inanalyzing paternalism, and then discusses the normative issuesconcerning the legitimacy of paternalism by the state and variouscivil institutions.
Perhaps people perceive a process as manipulative only if they alreadydisapprove of it for other reasons. A recent series of experimentsdiscovered that people’s views of whether a given nudge wasmanipulative varied with whether the nudge was in the direction oftheir political convictions or not (Fox and Tannenbaum 2015).
There seems to be only general agreement on the idea that in some wayor other manipulation interferes, or perverts, or takes advantage offactors that people would not want to influence, the decision makingof agents. Whether manipulation must be intentional, whether it mustbe hidden, whether the motive of the manipulator matters, whetherthere has to be a gap between the way in which the influence causesbehavior and the reasons which justify it , whether there has to be amanipulator if one is manipulated, all are contested in the literature(see papers in Coons and Weber 2013).
All of these rules, policies, and actions may be done for variousreasons; may be justified by various considerations. When they arejustified solely on the grounds that the person affected would bebetter off, or would be less harmed, as a result of the rule, policy,etc., and the person in question would prefer not to be treated thisway, we have an instance of paternalism.
To be sure it is not always easy to distinguish between legal moralismand moral paternalism. If one believes, as Plato does, that actingwrongly damages the soul of the agent, then it will be possible toinvoke moral paternalism rather than legal moralism. What is importantis that there are two distinct justifications that are possible; oneappealing to the mere immorality of the conduct interfered with, theother to the harm done to the agent’s character.
While it is clear that for some to characterize a policy aspaternalistic is to condemn or criticize it, that does not establishthat the term itself is an evaluative one. As a matter of methodologyit is preferable to see if some concept can be defined innon-normative terms and only if that fails to capture the relevantphenomena to accept a normative definition.
Turner, Piers Norris, 2013, “The absolutism Problem inOn Liberty”, Canadian Journal of Philosophy,43(3): 322–340. doi:10.1080/00455091.2013.847346
If one thought that (almost) always more harm than good is done by thestate when it acts paternalistically this raises the question ofwhether we can distinguish the conditions in which (rarely) more goodthan harm is done and build that into our guidelines. If this ispossible, and allowing paternalism in these exceptional cases does notcreate further harms which outweigh the good produced, then we shouldsometimes be paternalists. If it is impossible to distinguish the“good” from the “bad” cases then, at least ifwe are rule consequentialists, we ought not to have such a rule; andwe ought not to try and make the distinctions on a case by casebasis.
First, it should be noted that being lied to does not, and is not always intended to, affect choices.When a doctor falsely tells a patient that he does not have a fatal disease she istrying to prevent the patient from becoming depressed. It is mood not particular choices that are at issue.
Weber, Michael, and Christian Coons, 2014, Manipulation:Theory and Practice, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
The initial examples above served as the focus of much of the earlyliterature. The early critics attempted to distinguish interventionssuch as Cafeteria from interventions such as merely providinginformation. It is clear from more recent writings that the categoryof nudges is intended to be quite broad. According to Sunstein all thefollowing are nudges: reminders, warnings, a GPS, disclosure of theinterest rate of a bank card, any information about what people likeyou do, simplification of government forms, default rules, subliminalmessages urging people to eat healthy food.
A teacher may be less than honest about telling a student that he haslittle philosophical ability.
Some argue that taking advantage of our non-rational tendencies, evenfor good ends, is objectionable.
The first theorists to emphasize these findings for making socialpolicy were the Nudgers—Cass Sunstein and Richard Thaler (2003).They argued that since people were such bad decision makers we shouldnudge them in the direction of their own desired goals byorchestrating their choices so that they are more likely to do whatachieves their ends.
An interesting case to think about is the prescribing of placebos. In the typical case thedoctor is mis-leading the patient about the inert nature of the medication. But he is doingso because there is good reason to think that the patient will be better off for havingtaken the placebo. The patient's practical reasoning is distorted by the lie so somethingimportant for autonomy is removed but the patient's welfare is increased.
Hector, Colin, 2012, “Nudging towards Nutrition: SoftPaternalism and Obesity-Related Reform”, Food & Drug LawJournal, 67(1): 103–122.
There is some evidence that making nudges broad does not interferewith their efficacy. A recent study in the context of end-of-life careshowed the effect of a default is not weakened when people are toldthat a default was chosen because it is usually effective (Lowensteinet al. 2014).
Thaler, Richard H. and Cass R. Sunstein, 2008, Nudge:Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth and Happiness, NewHaven, CT: Yale University Press.
Or consider the case of a wife who hides her sleeping pills so thather potentially suicidal husband cannot use them. Her act may satisfythe second and third conditions but what about the first? Does heraction limit the liberty or autonomy of her husband?
There is one class of manipulation which clearly raises issues about whether the personbeing manipulated had had their autonomy and/or liberty interfered with--lies. Lies motivatedby the claim that the person being lied to will have her interests advanced are the most commonexamples of paternalism that are claimed to be, at least sometimes, justified.
This harnessing of the irrational for our own good is not paradoxicalbut it strikes some as problematic in the same way getting children toread by offering them financial incentives is problematic. We aregetting them to read for the wrong reasons. At least in these casesthere is the idea that once reading they will come to appreciate thepleasures and importance of reading for its own sake. But do peoplewho stick with opt-in out of a tendency to stick with the given learnto change their faulty heuristic? If anything, it is reinforcedbecause their faulty heuristic has a good consequence.
Condition one is the trickiest to capture. Clear cases includethreatening bodily compulsion, lying, withholding information that theperson has a right to have, or imposing requirements or conditions.But what about the following case? A father, skeptical about thefinancial acumen of a child, instead of bequeathing the moneydirectly, gives it to another child with instructions to use it in thebest interests of the first child. The first child has no legal claimon the inheritance. There does not seem to be an interference with thechild’s liberty nor on most conceptions the child’sautonomy.
Save More Tomorrow. Employees are asked to commit now tohaving a portion of their salary increase in subsequent years putdirectly into their pension plan. People are loss averse, and thusmore willing to forgo a raise in take-home income than they are toactively re-direct the additional funds they have already received totheir retirement accounts each year.
Coons, Christian and Michael Weber (eds), 2013 Paternalism:Theory and Practice, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
A husband may hide the sleeping pills from a depressed wife. Aphilosophy department may require a student to take logic courses.
Given the very different conceptions of manipulation there isdisagreement about why, when it is, manipulation is wrong. Because itviolates dignity? Because it violates autonomy? Because it violates aconception of liberty?
Cafeteria. In order to influence students to make healthierfood choices as they pass the cafeteria options place the healthyfoods at eye level and place the less healthy choices higher or lowerthan eye level. Sometimes the nudge involves putting the healthfulfood earlier in the line.
Grill, Kalle and Hanna Jason, 2018, The Routledge Handbook of the Philosophy of Paternalism, Routledge.
Dixon, Nicholas, 2001, “Boxing, Paternalism, and LegalMoralism”, Social Theory and Practice, 27(2):323–344.
Boven, Luc, 2008, “The Ethics of Nudge”, inGrune-Yanoff and S.O. Hansson, Preference Change: Approaches fromPhilosophy, Economics and Psychology, Chapter 10, Berlin and NewYork: Springer.
Sunstein, Cass R., and Richard H. Thaler, 2003, “LibertarianPaternalism Is Not an Oxymoron”, University of Chicago LawReview, 70(4): 1159–1202.
Note that there could be an even more transparent feature ofnudges—call them very broad nudges. This would be when themechanism by which the nudge influences is made public as well.Suppose we presented an opt-out set up and said (1) we are doing thisto increase participation in the retirement program, and (2) if thisis effective it is because people have a tendency to stick with thestatus-quo.
If, on the other hand, the lie is relevant to how, given their ends, they can best attain themthen what is diminished is their likelihood of achieving their autonomously chosen ends, or ofacting in accordance with their values. Their capacity for reflective acceptance remains intact.
Saghai, Yashar, 2013, “Salvaging the Concept ofNudge”, Journal of Medical Ethics, 39(8):487–493. doi:10.1136/medethics-2012-100727
Fox, Craig R. and David Tannenbaum, 2015 “The CuriousPolitics of the ‘Nudge’”, New York Times,September 26, 2015, p. SR9.
Pugh, Jonathan, 2015, “Ravines and Sugar Pills: DefendingDeceptive Placebo Use”, Journal of Medicine andPhilosophy, 40(1): 83–101.
Let us start with autonomy. Does being lied to interfere with, or diminish the autonomy of theperson being lied to?Obviously to answer this we need to be given an understanding of what it is for a person to be, or to act, autonomously. For example, if we understand autonomy as ageneral characteristic of a person’s relationship to their goals, ideals, preferences, values, and so forth then the lie must affect that relationship. If the lie, for example, asserts that some value, e.g. politeness, causes mostly misery, then their autonomy understood as self-reflection on how they should live is undermined.
Gorin, Moti, 2014, “Do Manipulators always threatenRationality?” American Philosophical Quarterly, 51(1):51–61.
de Marneffe, Peter, 2006, “Avoiding Paternalism”,Philosophy and Public Affairs, 34: 68–94.doi:10.1111/j.1088-4963.2006.00053.x
Choice architecture should be transparent and subject to publicscrutiny, certainly if public officials are responsible for it. At aminimum, this proposition means that when such officials institutesome kind of reform, they should not hide it from the public…Ifofficials alter a default rule so as to promote clean energy orconservation, they should disclose what they are doing. (2015: 19)
–––, 2005, “Joel Feinberg and theJustification of Hard Paternalism”, Legal Theory,11(3): 259–284. doi:10.1017/S1352325205050147
Why is transparency required? One possible objection tonon-transparency is that it interferes with the autonomy of thoseinfluenced. It seems too strong to think that this is true of allnon-transparent nudges but a more limited claim is that a nudge limitsautonomy when it influences an agent’s choices and were sheaware of the nudge she would reject the influence and the influencewould no longer be effective in her choices.
Support SEPSupport the SEPPDFs for SEP FriendsMake a DonationSEPIA for Libraries
This formulation leaves open a number of issues. Are“transparent” and “subject to public scrutiny”different conditions? The “minimum” interpretation is onlya condition of publicity about what officials are doing. Thegovernment could announce in advance that they are going to usesubliminal messages on television programs to promote health. Sunsteinbelieves that this would satisfy his transparency condition but thatit might be objectionable on grounds of manipulation.
And as often is the case the first question is whether the conceptitself is normative or descriptive. Is application of the concept amatter for empirical determination, so that if two people disagreeabout the application to a particular case they are disagreeing aboutsome matter of fact or of definition? Or does their disagreementreflect different views about the legitimacy of the application inquestion?
X does so only because X believes Z willimprove the welfare of Y (where this includes preventing hiswelfare from diminishing), or in some way promote the interests,values, or good of Y.
Soft paternalism is the view that the only conditions under whichstate paternalism is justified is when it is necessary to determinewhether the person being interfered with is acting voluntarily andknowledgeably. To use Mill’s famous example of the person aboutto walk across a damaged bridge, if we could not communicate thedanger (he speaks only Japanese) a soft paternalist would justifyforcibly preventing him from crossing the bridge in order to determinewhether he knows about its condition. If he knows, and wants to, say,commit suicide he must be allowed to proceed. A hard paternalist saysthat, at least sometimes, it may be permissible to prevent him fromcrossing the bridge even if he knows of its condition. We are entitledto prevent voluntary suicide.
One way to think about this is to consider the exercise of autonomy in a given choice as requiring freedom as non-interference. This assume the actor is autonomous in some basiccapacity sense. And non-interference is then analyzed in terms of what makes one’s choices more costly(coercion) or more difficult(deception) to pursue.
Brink, David O., 2013, Mill’s ProgressivePrinciples, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
The usual justification for paternalism refers to the interests of theperson being interfered with. These interests are defined in terms ofthe things that make a person’s life go better; in particulartheir physical and psychological condition. It is things like death ormisery or painful emotional states which are in question. Sometimes,however, advocates of state intervention seek to protect the moralwelfare of the person. So, for example, it may be argued thatprostitutes are better off being prevented from plying their tradeeven if they make a decent living and their health is protectedagainst disease. They are better off because it is morally corruptingto sell one’s sexual services. The interference is justified,therefore, to promote the moral well-being of the person. This thencan be called moral paternalism. Still another distinction withinmoral paternalism is between interferences to improve a person’smoral character, and hence her well-being, and interferences to makesomeone a better person—even if her life does not go better forher as a result.
For an example of a nudge that is not even narrowly transparentconsider the experiment where, in order to increase officeworker’s payments for the coffee they take from the coffeemachine a painting of a pair of eyes is hung above the coffee pot.This did increase the rate of payment. Most workers questioned aboutthe painting either had not noticed it at all or made no connectionwith the issue of payment.
However one comes out on the issue of whether the definition ofpaternalism is useful or not we turn to the more important issuesabout whether, and in what circumstances, nudges are justifiable waysof influencing persons to make certain choices.
Z (or its omission) interferes with the liberty or autonomyof Y.
The third condition also can be complicated. There may be more thanone reason for interfering with Y. In addition to concern forthe welfare of Y there may be concern for how Y’sactions may affect third-parties. Is the “just for”condition too strong? Or what about the case where a legislaturepasses a legal rule for paternalistic reasons but there are sufficientnon-paternalistic reasons to justify passage of the rule?
Since nudges are defined to exclude coercion, and they usually are notcases of outright deception (as opposed to a lack of transparency) theconcept that is often used to criticize nudges is that ofmanipulation. The charge of manipulation is raised often against theacts of others even when, like nudging, they are benevolentlymotivated. We think of manipulation, like other forms of paternalismas failing to respect us as rational and capable choosers. After all,if we were capable choosers why not just present us with the reasonswhich favor our acting in particular way?
An example of this use of cognitive biases is changing opt-in toopt-out. It is because of cognitive bias to doing nothing to changethe status quo that there are relatively fewer opt-outs than might beexpected.
A lie may not in fact deceive the listener for manyreasons—P might actually be true or the listener may beaware that she is being lied to—but it is still pro tanto wrongas an abuse of assertion whose function is to provide evidence of whatthe speaker takes to be the truth. Paternalistic lies are prima faciewrong, as Kantians would claim, because they are violations of ourright as rational creatures to determine our ends, and the means toobtain them, for ourselves.
Nys, Thomas, Yvonne Denier, and Toon Vandevelde (eds), 2007,Autonomy and Paternalism: Reflections on the Theory and Practiceof Health Care, Leuven: Peeters.
But one might believe that the question of whether more good than harmis produced is not simply an empirical one. It depends on ourunderstanding of the good of persons. If the good simply includeditems such as longer life, greater health, more income, or lessdepression, then it makes it look like an empirical issue. But if weconceive of the good of individuals as including items such as beingrespected as an independent agent, having a right to make decisionsfor oneself, or having one’s autonomy not infringed, then theissue of whether the agent is better off after being paternalised ispartly a normative matter. One might believe that one cannot makepeople better off by infringing their autonomy in the same way thatsome people believe one cannot make a person better off by puttingthem in a Nozickian experience machine (one in which they are floatingin a tank but seem to be having all kinds of wonderful experiences).Compare Mill’s statement that “…a man’s modeof laying out his own existence is best not because it is the best initself, but because it is his own mode…” (1859: ChapterIII).
I suggest the following conditions as an analysis of X actspaternalistically towards Y by doing (omitting)Z:
A narrow paternalist is only concerned with the question of statecoercion, i.e., the use of legal coercion. A broad paternalist isconcerned with any paternalistic action: state, institutional(hospital policy), or individual.
Painting Traffic Lanes. In order to get drivers to slow downon a sharp turn the lane lines are painted closer together than usual.This creates the illusion for the drivers that they are driving fasterthan they actually are and they slow down as a result.
Groll, Daniel, 2012 “Paternalism, Respect and theWill”, Ethics, 122(4): 692–714.doi:10.1086/666500
Kantian views are frequently absolutistic in their objections topaternalism. On these views we must always respect the rational agencyof other persons. To deny an adult the right to make their owndecisions, however mistaken from some standpoint they are, is to treatthem as simply means to their own good, rather than as ends inthemselves. In a way anti-paternalism is already incorporated intoKantian theories by their prohibition against lying andforce—the main instruments of paternalistic interference. Sincethese instrumentalities are already denied even to prevent individualsfrom harming others, they will certainly be forbidden to prevent themfrom harming themselves. Of course, one may object to the formerabsolutism while accepting the latter.
Basically, the definition of paternalism in Libertarian Paternalism isfocused solely on the fact that nudges are being used to make theagents being nudged better off. We could replace“paternalism” with “benevolence” and nothingimportant would be left out since the “libertarian” aspectpicks up everything else that is significant. Whether this expansionof the definition of paternalism is warranted or not is a matter ofwhat issues are being explored and whether such an expansion makesthings clearer or more confused.
There is one feature of many nudges that must be considered which,although not intrinsic to the concept of a nudge, is often present inthe background as a crucial feature. One author actually links thesebackground conditions to the definition of LibertarianPaternalism.
Loewenstein, George, Cindy Bryce, David Hagmann, & SachinRajpal, 2014, “Warning: You Are About To Be Nudged”,unpublished working paper (Mar. 28, 2014), archived at SSRN
Nudging uses the clever tricks of modern psychology and economics tomanipulate people. We don’t like manipulation when it’sdone to sell us things; we shouldn’t like manipulation when ourgovernments do it to us. (Wilkinson, see Other Internet Resources)
Savelscu, Julian, 1995, “Rational non interventionalpaternalism: why doctors ought to make judgments of what is best fortheir patients”, Journal of Medical Ethics, 21:327–331.
Given this background, there are at least three objections that haveobjected to features intrinsic to some—by no meansall—nudges. The first is that nudging often occurs without thenudged being aware they are being nudged. The second is that nudgingoften works by harnessing defects in the thinking of those beingnudged. The third is that some nudges (besides those subject to thefirst two objections) are forms of objectionable manipulation.
Epistemic Paternalism Online inGuy Axtell & Amiel Bernal (eds.) Epistemic Paternalism.
At the level of choosing what to do in order to attain goals, or promote ends, or acting in accordance with values, being lied to diminishes the likelihood of achievingany of these.Is this failure also to be considered a diminishment of autonomy?
The analysis of paternalism involves at least the following elements.It involves some kind of limitation on the freedom or autonomy of someagent and it does so for a particular class of reasons. As with manyother concepts used in normative debate determining the exactboundaries of the concept is a contested issue.
This is exactly the same information but those told (A) are more likely to choose the operation than those given (B). It is irrational to make the decision differently depending on how itis worded.
It is clear that many nudges are not plausibly examples ofmanipulation. Warning labels, default rules such as opt-out, providingcaloric information on menus cannot count as manipulation withoutusing such an expansive conception of manipulation as to deprive it ofany use.
Consider the opt-out nudge. It relies upon, and works in virtue of, thefact that we tend to go with the given even if there are betteroptions easily available. It is because we irrationally choose theworse option that we present the better option for the agent to chooseirrationally.
2. Conceptual Issues2.1 Hard vs. soft paternalism 2.2 Broad vs. narrow paternalism 2.3 Weak vs. strong paternalism 2.4 Pure vs. impure paternalism 2.5 Moral vs. welfare paternalism
But these objections are not objections to nudging but to the misuseof this type of behavioral intervention. Are there objections to thevery nature of nudging itself?
Shiffrin, Seanna, 2000, “Paternalism, UnconscionabilityDoctrine, and Accommodation”, Philosophy & PublicAffairs, 29: 205–250.
Enoch, David, 2016, What’s Wrong with Paternalism: Autonomy, Belief, and ActionProceedings of the Aristotelian Society, April 2016
Their definition of Paternalism is very weak in the sense that itallows many more acts to count as paternalistic than would be underalmost all traditional definitions of paternalism.
Given that nudges are not coercive, that they are intended to promotethe good of individuals as they themselves perceive that good, thatthey have been shown to often be effective, are there any plausiblenormative objections to their use?
Alexander, Larry, 2010, “Voluntary Enslavement”,San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 10–042, October 19,2010. [Alexander 2010 available online]
Second, it not clear that having choices fail because of a lie affects autonomy. If it doesthen whenever a person, out of ignorance, has their choice fail they have acted non-autonomously.But it is not obvious that when I choose a medicine on the basis of inaccurate information, andfail to get cured, that my choice of the medicine was not autonomous. Perhaps it is the voluntariness of my choice that is affected.
–––, 2015, “The Ethics of Nudging”,Yale Journal on Regulation, Vol. 32: 413–450.[Sunstein 2015 available online]
Salazar V., Alberto R., 2012, “Libertarian Paternalism andthe Danger of Nudging Consumers”, King’s Law Journal,23(1): 51–67. doi:10.5235/096157612800081222
Castro, Clinton, Adam Phan, and Alan Rubel, 2020, Epistemic Paternalism Online inGuy Axtell & Amiel Bernal (eds.) Epistemic Paternalism., London: Rowman & Littlefield.
Their view is Paternalistic because it seeks to promote the good ofthe agent being nudged. And it is the good as viewed by the agentherself. We are not nudging towards ends she does not hold. Nudging isabout means not ends.
Nudgers are clear that they want the influence they use to be easilyavoidable. That is why they do not consider making choices very costlyor difficult to be a nudge. But manipulations vary in their strengthor effectiveness. Perhaps certain subliminal messages are quite weakin their force; only people who already are thinking about buyingpopcorn are affected. Would only the influences that are difficult toevade or avoid be considered manipulative?
The claim is that, unlike traditional paternalism which rules outchoices by compulsion or adds costs to the choices by coercion, nudgessimply change the presentation of the choices in such a way thatpeople were more likely to choose options that are best for them. Inaddition they argue that any arrangement of choices will make somechoices more or less likely so that some decision about the choicearchitecture is inevitable.
Since lying is pro tanto wrong any specific lie can turn out to bejustified if there are reasons that outweigh the ones making itwrong. And defenders of paternalistic lies argue there are sometimesharms avoided or goods produced that outweigh the harms oflying. Anti-paternalists argue that such calculations fail to takeinto account that lies interfere with important values such as theautonomy, liberty, and rationality of the person and these values mayoutweigh the harms avoided or goods produced.
If, in order to decide on any of the above issues, one must decide anormative issue, e.g., does someone have a right to some information,then the concept is not purely descriptive. Ultimately the question ofhow to refine the conditions, and what conditions to use, is a matterfor philosophical judgment. The term “paternalism” as usedin ordinary contexts may be too amorphous for thinking aboutparticular normative issues. One should decide upon an analysis basedon a hypothesis of what will be most useful for thinking about aparticular range of problems. One might adopt one analysis in thecontext of doctors and patients and another in the context of whetherthe state should ban unhealthy foods.
If we think of cases of rational persuasion, then in the ideal case,we would find that the agent chooses because she believes she has beengiven reasons, these reasons support her choice, and she acts becauseof those reasons. In the case of harnessing non-rational tendenciesfor nudges these conditions are not satisfied.
The civil law does not allow the enforcement of certain kinds ofcontracts, e.g., for gambling debts. It requires minors to have bloodtransfusions even if their religious beliefs forbid it. Persons may becivilly committed if they are a danger to themselves.
any aspect of the choice architecture that alters people’sbehavior in a predictable way without forbidding any options orsignificantly changing their economic incentive. (2008: 6)
Cholby, M, 2015, “Paternalism and our RationalPowers”, Mind, 126(501): 123–153.
Their view is Libertarian because it preserves freedom of choice. Nochoice is eliminated or made more difficult. Nobody is coerced. Thechoice set remains the same. No significant costs or incentives areattached to the choices the agent faces.
The first issue is what exactly distinguishes Nudges from other waysof influencing people’s choices. Here are various examples ofNudges. These were given in the earliest discussions of nudging andhave tended to be the ones focused on.
A weak paternalist believes that it is legitimate to interfere withthe means that agents choose to achieve their ends, if those means arelikely to defeat those ends. So if a person really prefers safety toconvenience then it is legitimate to force them to wear seatbelts. Astrong paternalist believes that people may have mistaken, confused orirrational ends and it is legitimate to interfere to prevent them fromachieving those ends. If a person really prefers the wind rustlingthrough their hair to increased safety it is legitimate to make themwear helmets while motorcycling because their ends are irrational ormistaken. If one is a weak but not a strong paternalist we mayonly interfere with mistakes about the facts not with mistakes aboutvalues. So if a person tries to jump out of a window believing he willfloat gently to the ground we may restrain him. If he jumps because hebelieves that it is important to be spontaneous we may not.
Sunstein has put forward what he calls a transparency condition:
Pope, Thaddeus Mason, 2000, “Balancing Public Health againstIndividual Liberty: The Ethics of Smoking Regulations”,University of Pittsburgh Law Review, 61(2):419–498.
Bergelson, Vera, 2007, “The Right to Be Hurt: Testing theBoundaries of Consent”, The George Washington LawReview, 75: 165–255.
In conclusion it seems clear that lying interferes with something significant concerning the choices and actions of the person lied to and in doing so acts prima facie wrongly. But being clearer about what is, and what what is not, diminished by paternalistic lies needs furtherinvestigation in order to evaluate the legitimacy of such lies.
Rebanato, Riccardo, 2012, Taking Liberties: A CriticalExamination of Libertarian Paternalism, London: PalgraveMacmillan. doi:10.1057/9780230391567
Given some particular analysis of paternalism there will be variousnormative views about when paternalism is justified. The followingterminology is useful.
Doctors do not tell their patients the truth about their medicalcondition. A physician may tell the wife of a man whose car went off abridge into the water and drowned that he died instantly when in facthe died a rather ghastly death.
AboutEditorial InformationAbout the SEPEditorial BoardHow to Cite the SEPSpecial CharactersAdvanced ToolsContact
As the examples indicate the question of paternalism is one thatarises in many different areas of our personal and public life. Assuch, it is an important realm of applied ethics. But it also raisescertain theoretical issues. Perhaps the most important is: what powersit is legitimate for a state, operating both coercively and in termsof incentives, to possess? It also raises questions about the properways in which individuals, either in an institutional or purelypersonal setting, should relate to one another. How should we thinkabout individual autonomy and its limits? What is it to respect thepersonhood of others? What is the trade-off, if any, between regardfor the welfare of another and respect for their right to make theirown decisions?
Suppose we start from the presumption that paternalism is wrong. Thequestion becomes under what, if any, circumstances, can thepresumption be overcome? The possible answers are “under nocircumstances”, “under some circumstances”, and“under any circumstances”
Husak, Douglas, 2003, “Legal Paternalism”, in HughLaFollette (ed.), The Oxford Handbook of Practical Ethics,New York: Oxford University Press.
There are nudges which are not paternalistic ( on their definition)because the aim is to promote the general good—even if thechooser is not benefitted. Nudging building managers to put inelevators with braille buttons, influencing people to contribute toOxfam by putting up pictures of starving infants, are examples wherethe good to be promoted is the welfare of people other than thosebeing influenced.
The last seems very implausible. Essentially it is the view that thefact that an act is (intended to be) beneficial for a person, and doesnot affect or violate the interests of others, settles the question ofwhether it may be done. Only a view which ignores the means by whichgood is promoted, and the ethical status of such means, can hold this.Any sensible view has to distinguish between good done to agents attheir request or with their consent, and good thrust upon them againsttheir will.
Goldman, Alan H., 1980, “The Refutation of MedicalPaternalism”, in his The Moral Foundations of ProfessionalEthics, Towata: Rowman and Littlefield.
In recent years there has been a new, influential, strand of thoughtabout paternalistic interferences. It has been referred to as NewPaternalism or Libertarian Paternalism. It is influenced by researchin the behavioral sciences on the many ways in which our cognitive andaffective capacities are flawed and limited.
With respect to the impossibility question one might believe eitherthat it is not possible to do any good by acting paternalistically orthat although it is possible to do some good the process will (almost)always produce bads which outweigh the good.
Until more refined notions of manipulation and of subverting rationaldecision-making are developed it may be more fruitful to look atspecific nudges which strike one as problematic because of someidentifiable features they have, and to distinguish them from othernudges which lack such features. There may be no common features whichexplain why those nudges that are wrongful all fall under a plausibleconcept of manipulation.
–––, 2012, “Harm and the VolentiPrinciple”, Social Philosophy and Policy, 29:309–321. doi:10.1017/S0265052511000057
Arneson, Richard J., 1989, “Paternalism, Utility, andFairness”, Revue Internationale de Philosophie,43(170(3)): 409–23.
The government requires people to contribute to a pension system(Social Security). It requires motorcyclists to wear helmets. Itforbids people from swimming at a public beach when lifeguards are notpresent. It forbids the sale of various drugs deemed to beineffective. It forbids the sale of various drugs believed to beharmful. It does not allow consent to certain forms of assault to be adefense against prosecution for that assault.
The second condition is supposed to be read as distinct from actingagainst the consent of an agent. The agent may neither consent nor notconsent. He may, for example, be unaware of what is being done to him.There is also the distinct issue of whether one acts not knowing aboutthe consent of the person in question. Perhaps the person in factconsents but this is not known to the paternaliser.
The problem is that manipulation seems a very amorphous andill-understood concept. There is widespread disagreement about whatkinds of influence are manipulative and the conditions under whichthey are wrong.
Is there a burden of proof attached to paternalism? Does thepaternalist or anti-paternalist have to give a reason for theiraction? As we have seen the analysis of paternalism seems to cut bothways. It is an interference with liberty which might be thought toplace the burden of proof on the paternalist. It is an act intended toproduce good for the agent which might be thought to place the burdenof proof on those who object to paternalism. It might be thought, asMill did, that the burden of proof is different depending on who isbeing treated paternalistically. If it is a child then the assumptionis that, other things being equal, the burden of proof is on those whoresist paternalism. If it is an adult of sound mind the presumption isreversed.
A different theoretical basis is (moral) contractualism. On this viewif there are cases of justified paternalism they are justified on thebasis that we (all of us) would agree to such interference, givensuitable knowledge and suitable motivation. So, for instance, it mightbe argued that since we know we are subject to depression we all wouldagree, at least, to short-term anti-suicide interventions, todetermine whether we are suffering from such a condition, and toattempt to cure it. More generally, we might accept what Feinbergcalled “soft paternalism.” This is the view that when weare not acting fully voluntarily it is permissible to intervene toprovide information, or to point out defects in our rationality, butthat if we then do make a voluntary choice it must be respected. Or wemight agree to being forced to wear seat-belts knowing our dispositionto discount future benefits for present ones. The justification hereis neither consequentialist nor based simply on the preservation ofautonomy. Rather either kind of consideration may be taken intoaccount, as well as others, in determining what we would reasonablyagree to.
So the normative options seem to be just two. Either we are neverpermitted to aim at doing good for others against their wishes, and inways which limit their liberty, or we are permitted to do so.
It remains open for discussion how to formulate a norm which is closerto the intuitive idea of transparency, to distinguish various sense oftransparency—such as narrow and broad—and to debatewhether such transparency is a necessary component of legitimatenudges. Must, for example, the public utility which hopes to encourageenergy conservation preface its informational message about theaverage consumption of your neighbors with the fact that they aresending this information because they think it will encourageconservation? Does it have to disclose they believe it may do sobecause people have a tendency to conform to what their neighbors aredoing?
Hanna, Jason, 2018, In Our Best Interest Oxford University Press.
Thaler and Sunstein also provided a characterization of a nudge as
It is a good thing that, usually, we act not simply in accordance withthe reasons there are to act, but also out of, in recognition, ofthose reasons. This desirable feature may be out-weighed if the goodsaccomplished by nudges are important, and alternative interventionsare much less effective and/or require much costly or difficult tooperate.
In terms of the analysis of Paternalism given in this entry is Nudgingpaternalistic? The first condition in the definition is: the action(or its omission) interferes with the liberty or autonomy of Y.Nothing corresponds to this in the definition above. Putting a warninglabel on a cigarette pack does not interfere with the liberty ofautonomy of any cigarette smoker.
In the case of paternalistic acts there seemed to be only one or twoconcepts which figure in the normative objections—e.g.,autonomy, liberty—and they belong to a similar class of values.In the case of objectionable nudging there seem to be a greaterdiversity of normative values at stake, and they seem to have nooverarching conceptual unity.
One issue with many nudges is what the person being nudged knows aboutthe nudge. In the Cafeteria example the students are aware that foodhas been placed at different levels of eyesight. In that sense thenudge is transparent to them. It is not like subliminal messaging inwhich they are not aware of messages directed to them. Let us callnudges which are transparent in this sense narrow nudges.
Opt-In vs Opt-Out. Given that many employees often fail toenroll (opt-in) in retirement plans, employers make the defaultautomatic enrollment in such programs, allowing employees to easilyopt-out. Such programs have been shown to increase savings rates.
The second objection to nudges has to do with a specific mechanismthrough which the end of nudging—promotion of agentends—is sometimes accomplished. Consider the cafeteria example.The reason we place the healthy foods at eye level is because there isa tendency to choose what is at eye level over options that are not.The thought is that nudgers can harness this tendency by puttinghealthy foods at that level.
Why is the view labeled by its introducers as Libertarian Paternalism?In the paradigmatic definitions of nudging the intervention is alwaysby way of what is called “choice architecture.” Choicearchitecture is the design of different ways in which choices can bepresented to an agent. Examples include the number of choices, whetherthe choice is opt-in or opt-out, the way in which alternatives aredescribed or presented, the incentives attached to the choices,etc.
It is clear that while many nudges (as defined) harness bad reasoning,most do not. Some do not harness reasoning at all, e.g., theeyes/coffee case.
autonomy: in moral and political philosophy | autonomy: personal | beneficence, principle of | liberty: positive and negative | limits of law | Mill, John Stuart: moral and political philosophy
Sunstein, Cass R., 2013, “The Storrs Lectures: BehavioralEconomics and Paternalism”, Yale Law Journal, 122(7):1826–1900. [Sunstein 2013 available online]
In the cafeteria example while aware that the food is on differentlevels the students are not aware that the placing of the food hasbeen done in order to promote a certain end—eating more healthyfoods. The placement of the food is not random, nor motivated byaesthetic considerations. It is deliberate and motivated by aparticular set of considerations. Some nudges are more transparent inthe sense that it is obvious they have been deliberately introducedand their motivation is also clear. For example, the warnings oncigarette packages that smoking is dangerous to one’s health.Call these broad nudges.
Le Grand, Julian and Bill New, 2015, Government Paternalism:Nanny State or Helpful Friend? Princeton: Princeton UniversityPress.
Since the positioning of foods is not a rational ground for choosingnudgers use this non-rational tendency so that healthy foods arechosen. Note in this case we get both a lack of transparency and theharnessing of non-rational tendencies.
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is copyright © 2021 by The Metaphysics Research Lab, Department of Philosophy, Stanford University
Even if there were a consensus on the widely shared view thatinterpersonal manipulation is unjustified only when there is a bypass or subversionof the rational capacities of the person being influenced there willbe much disagreement about what “bypass” and“subverts” come to. Does making use of framing effects inconveying information “bypass” or “subvert”rational capacities? Is harnessing a non-rational propensity of aperson bypassing or subverting rational capacities?
Skipper, Robert A., 2012, “Obesity: Towards a System ofLibertarian Paternalistic Public Health Interventions”,Public Health Ethics, 5: 181–191.doi:10.1093/phe/phs020
Size of Plates. Using smaller plates in a cafeteria cuts downon the amount of food consumed.
Autonomy and Paternalism: Reflections on the Theory and Practiceof Health Care
As with any policy intervention, either by the state or by privateorganizations, there are possible misuses to worry about. Perhapsthere are slippery-slopes to be avoided. Perhaps proponents of nudgingover-estimate the amount and seriousness of faulty reasoning byagents; mistakes that nudgers wish to harness to promote the agentswelfare. Perhaps they are mistaken about what agents really value whenthey claim people prefer health to more sugary beverages.
In 1956, Szasz and Hollender[4] introduced three models of paternalism to the medical community, thereby legitimizing the view that doctors did not necessarily have to dominate patients.The models are as follows:
In the 18th century, medical paternalism was considered necessary.It was believed that only a doctor could properly understand symptoms and draw useful conclusions.During this period, the prevailing consensus was that disease was nothing more than symptoms.This meant that the individual history of the patient didn't matter in providing care, so the patient him or herself was irrelevant in the medical encounter.Thus it was deemed necessary that physicians make decisions for patients. This view of paternalism was only encouraged by the rise of hospitals in the later 18th century.Because patients in hospitals were often sick and disabled, the view of them as passive recipients of medical care only became more prevalent.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Brennan, Troyen (1991). Just Doctoring: Medical Ethics in the Liberal State. University of California Press. pp. 51–53.
Robison, Wade L.; Pritchard, Michael S. (1979). Medical Responsibility: Paternalism, Informed Consent, and Euthanasia. Clifton, NJ: The HUMANA Press. ISBN 978-0-89603-007-7.
Strong and weak paternalism (sometimes referred to as limited and extended paternalism) are two philosophies regarding when it is appropriate for a doctor to ignore a patient's wishes. The fundamental difference lies in the patient's capacity to make well-informed decisions for themselves.[6][page needed] Weak (or limited) paternalism refers to a situation in which the physician will only disobey the patient's requests if the patient cannot demonstrate that their choices are voluntary and well-informed. As such, even if the doctor disagrees with the patient's desire, he or she will not intervene as long as the patient is of sound mind. Strong (or extended) paternalism involves a doctor superseding a patient's requests in cases where the doctor has determined a better course of action, even when the patient's requests are made voluntarily. These cases typically arise when the physician has determined that a patient's decision is unreasonable because of the risks involved, or potential costs to the patient's well-being.[7][page needed]
This page was last edited on 7 March 2022, at 05:45 (UTC).
Mutual participation involves the physician making it clear that he or she is not infallible and does not always know what is best.This model is more of a partnership, in which the doctor helps the patient to help him or herself.This model is often employed in cases of chronic disease or pain, in which the patient can have a higher degree of freedom and be more independent of the doctor.[5]
Rosenbaum, Lisa (2015-08-13). "The Paternalism Preference — Choosing Unshared Decision Making". New England Journal of Medicine. 373 (7): 589–592. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1508418. ISSN 0028-4793. PMID 26267618.
Childress, James F. (1982). Who Should Decide?: Paternalism in Health Care. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-503127-0.
Fassler, Joe (2015-10-15). "How Doctors Take Women's Pain Less Seriously". The Atlantic.
^ Robison, Wade L.; Pritchard, Michael S. (1979). Medical Responsibility: Paternalism, Informed Consent, and Euthanasia. Clifton, NJ: The HUMANA Press. ISBN 978-0-89603-007-7.
Szasz, T. S., & Hollender, M. H. (1956). "The Basic Models of the Doctor-Patient Relationship." Archives of Internal Medicine, 97, 585–592.
^ Rosenbaum, Lisa (2015-08-13). "The Paternalism Preference — Choosing Unshared Decision Making". New England Journal of Medicine. 373 (7): 589–592. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1508418. ISSN 0028-4793. PMID 26267618.
^ Häyry, Heta (1998). Individual Liberty and Medical Control. Ashgate Publishing Ltd. pp. 28–39. ISBN 1-84014-572-2.
"Consent guidance: Legal Annex - Common Law". General medical Council.
Guidance—co-operation is a relationship used in more long-term situations.The doctor provides instructions to the patient, to which the patient is expected to comply.The name comes from the expectation that the physician will guide the patient, who will co-operate, but who retains their individuality.
Kaba, R. (February 2007). "The evolution of the doctor-patient relationship". International Journal of Surgery. 5 (1): 57–65. doi:10.1016/j.ijsu.2006.01.005. PMID 17386916.
^ Kaba, R. (February 2007). "The evolution of the doctor-patient relationship". International Journal of Surgery. 5 (1): 57–65. doi:10.1016/j.ijsu.2006.01.005. PMID 17386916.
The movement away from paternalism can be traced back to the relationship between early psychologists and their patients. In particular, Josef Breuer and Sigmund Freud urged that importance be placed on communication with and understanding of the patient.This sharply contrasted the view of patients as passive, and placed them at the center of the medical encounter.These practices also treated patients as unique, instead of simply being a collection of symptoms to be fixed by a paternalistic doctor.
Häyry, Heta (1998). Individual Liberty and Medical Control. Ashgate Publishing Ltd. pp. 28–39. ISBN 1-84014-572-2.
Medical paternalism is a set of attitudes and practices in medicine in which a physician determines that a patient's wishes or choices should not be honored. These practices were current through the early to mid 20th century, and were characterised by a paternalistic attitude, surrogate decision-making and a lack of respect for patient autonomy.[1] It is almost exclusively undertaken with the intention of benefiting the patient, although this is not always the case.In the past, paternalism was considered an absolute medical necessity, as there was little to no public understanding of medical procedures and practices.However, in recent years, paternalism has become limited and blind faith in doctors' decisions has come to be frowned upon.[2]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Brennan, Troyen (1991). Just Doctoring: Medical Ethics in the Liberal State. University of California Press. pp. 51–53.
^ Szasz, T. S., & Hollender, M. H. (1956). "The Basic Models of the Doctor-Patient Relationship." Archives of Internal Medicine, 97, 585–592.
Due to the subjective nature of when and to what extent paternalism is necessary, physicians who engage in paternalism may find themselves in a complicated legal situation.Throughout history there have been many cases in which a patient is reported to have made a well-informed choice (while of sound mind) to opt for a medically improper treatment, or one that is very costly to their well-being.If the doctor does not take a paternalistic stance, and instead goes through with the patient's wishes, the question arises as to whether malpractice occurred.[8]There exists an expectation of doctors to provide as much information as is appropriate to their patients, as well as an expectation that they do not keep anything relevant secret.This creates a difficult legal situation in which a decision has to be made about what the correct amount of information is, and how best to present it.For example, a patient may read everything available to them and ultimately decide on undergoing a procedure with a 95% survival rate.However, that same patient may not choose the same procedure if it is presented as carrying a 5% risk of dying.As such, in cases in which things go awry it is the courts' responsibility to determine whether the physician is at fault, and whether he or she should have ignored the patient's requests.[9]
The relationship between strong medical paternalism and euthanasia is slightly more complicated.There are questions of a philosophical nature that must be addressed.For example, a strong paternalist would have to determine whether it is always objectively bad for a human to die, even if that human could prove that it was their desire to do so.In these cases, a physician may defer to morality or religion in order to make a decision.They would perhaps present the argument that even if a person wished to die, it would be an irrational desire and they should not indulge it.However, in the absence of these factors, it is possible for strong paternalism to be compatible with voluntary euthanasia.This would require the patient to make it clear that he or she would not be losing anything of value to them by dying, i.e. fundamentally disconnecting life from goodness.For example, if a patient learns that he or she would be in constant pain for the rest of his or her life, it is not irrational to honor their wishes to die.In these cases, some argue, even a strong paternalism does not justify prolonging the patient's life, because the physicians actions would not truly be for the patient's own good.[10]
Activity—passivity refers to the traditional version of paternalism, in which the doctor treats the patient as one who cannot or should not make decisions.This relationship is similar to that of a parent and child.Treatment is performed "irrespective of the patient's contribution and regardless of outcome."This model is considered justified in emergency situations in which there is no time to consider the patient's preferences or contributions.
In many cases, particularly countries in which voluntary euthanasia is illegal, physicians must exercise medical paternalism by not respecting patients' wishes to die.There are contrasting views on whether this constitutes weak or strong paternalism.One argument is that weak paternalism allows the physician to stay completely hands-off.If the patient is in a sound state of mind and the doctor can reasonably guess what they desire, so there is no need for further action.They do not need to keep the patient alive, nor do they need to allow the patient to die.In this sense, one could argue that weak medical paternalism has no contradictions with allowing a patient to undergo voluntary euthanasia.
^ Childress, James F. (1982). Who Should Decide?: Paternalism in Health Care. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-503127-0.
^ "Consent guidance: Legal Annex - Common Law". General medical Council.
By the end of the 20th century and into the 21st, paternalistic medicine was increasingly seen as inappropriate in the West with guidance from professional bodies such as the General Medical Council indicating that it is ethically unsupportable.[3]
Alternatively, you can visit the Main Page or read more information about this type of error.
We could not find the above page on our servers.
