This article about a Hong Kong album is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Glamorous (TC: 艷光四射, SC: 艳光四射) is a Cantopop album by Denise Ho which pays tribute to recording artists of the 80's, including Anita Mui, Leslie Cheung, Danny Chan, Sam Hui, etc. It was her first CD released by East Asia Music.
This page was last edited on 21 April 2022, at 11:05 (UTC).
This page was last edited on 1 June 2021, at 10:00 (UTC).
"Glamorous" (Natalia song), a 2007 song by Natalia & En Vogue
According to Royal Spanish Academy (RAE) prescriptions, unadapted foreign words should be written in italics in a text printed in roman type, and vice versa, and in quotation marks in a manuscript text or when italics are not available. In practice, this RAE prescription is not always followed.
1 English1.1 Etymology1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Noun1.3.1 Alternative forms1.3.2 Derived terms1.3.3 Translations1.4 Verb1.4.1 References
“glamour”, in Diccionario de la lengua española, Vigésima tercera edición, Real Academia Española, 2014
And that has fallen since into a proverb, that Glam lends eyes, or gives Glamsight to those who see things nowise as they are."
(uncountable) Originally, enchantment; magic charm; especially, the effect of a spell that causes one to see objects in a form that differs from reality, typically to make filthy, ugly, or repulsive things seem beauteous.1882, James Thomson (B. V.), “The City of Dreadful Night”:They often murmur to themselves, they speakTo one another seldom, for their woeBroods maddening inwardly and scorns to wreakItself abroad; and if at whiles it growTo frenzy which must rave, none heeds the clamour,Unless there waits some victim of like glamour,To rave in turn, who lends attentive show.
glamour (third-person singular simple present glamours, present participle glamouring, simple past and past participle glamoured)
(uncountable) Any excitement, appeal, or attractiveness associated with a person, place, or thing; that which makes something appealing.The idea of being a movie star has lost its glamour for me.1899 February,Joseph Conrad,“The Heart of Darkness”, inBlackwood’s Edinburgh Magazine, volume CLXV, number M, New York, N.Y.: The Leonard Scott Publishing Company, […], OCLC 1042815524, part I, page 197:“The North Pole was one of these places, I remember. Well, I haven’t been there yet, and shall not try now. The glamour’s off.”1950 May 7,The Daily Telegraph, page 13, column 3:Boys have not lost their love for adventure, and still have `itchy feet.' Many are seeking glamor jobs, want to be writers, detectives, seamen.
A kind of haze in the air, causing things to appear different from what they really are.(Can we add an example for this sense?)
glamor (US); however, the -our spelling is the more common spelling, even in the US
1899 February,Joseph Conrad,“The Heart of Darkness”, inBlackwood’s Edinburgh Magazine, volume CLXV, number M, New York, N.Y.: The Leonard Scott Publishing Company, […], OCLC 1042815524, part I, page 197:
1899 February,Joseph Conrad,“The Heart of Darkness”, inBlackwood’s Edinburgh Magazine, volume CLXV, number M, New York, N.Y.: The Leonard Scott Publishing Company, […], OCLC 1042815524, part I, page 197:“The North Pole was one of these places, I remember. Well, I haven’t been there yet, and shall not try now. The glamour’s off.”
glamour c (singular definite glamouren, not used in plural form)
Some say from Scots glamer, supposedly from earlier Scots gramarye (“magic, enchantment, spell”).
1882, James Thomson (B. V.), “The City of Dreadful Night”:They often murmur to themselves, they speakTo one another seldom, for their woeBroods maddening inwardly and scorns to wreakItself abroad; and if at whiles it growTo frenzy which must rave, none heeds the clamour,Unless there waits some victim of like glamour,To rave in turn, who lends attentive show.
Glamsight (glámsýni) is also referred to in the Icelandic collection Sturlunga saga.
(countable) An item, motif, person, image that by association improves appearance.
This page was last edited on 4 March 2023, at 15:37.
Any artificial interest in, or association with, objects, or persons, through which they appear delusively magnified or glorified.
Boys have not lost their love for adventure, and still have `itchy feet.' Many are seeking glamor jobs, want to be writers, detectives, seamen.
“The North Pole was one of these places, I remember. Well, I haven’t been there yet, and shall not try now. The glamour’s off.”
(uncountable) Alluring beauty or charm (often with sex appeal).glamour magazines; a glamour model
"...he was become so fearsome a man in the dark, that he durst go nowhither alone after nightfall, for then he seemed to see all kinds of horrors.
“Glámr” in: Richard Cleasby, Guðbrandur Vigfússon — An Icelandic-English Dictionary (1874)
According to George Mpampiniotis, a glossology professor at the University of Athens, the Scottish term may either be from the Greek word Γραμματική (grammatiki - grammar).A connection has also been suggested with Old Norse glámr (poet. “moon,” name of a ghost) and glámsýni (“glamour, illusion”, literally “glam-sight”). From Grettir's Saga aka Grettis Saga, one of the Sagas of Icelanders, after the hero has been cursed by Glam, aka Glamr:
1950 May 7,The Daily Telegraph, page 13, column 3:Boys have not lost their love for adventure, and still have `itchy feet.' Many are seeking glamor jobs, want to be writers, detectives, seamen.
