Maire is a name that infers a spearheading soul. she can be a characteristic conceived pioneer assuming she need to. Profoundly engaged, and accomplishment arranged. Suffering difficulty to evaluate new things easily fall into place for you. It disappoints you to do such a large number of insignificant exercises. . She can get things done and settle on choice, likewise vigorous and sure.
Aurhai means "more is" in english. That Aur hai is a hindi word for it.
Which would caught the merchant eyes time after time. But wouldn't make a move toward her. About around 16, So each day she would try and reacted the dances from her favorite dancer. Whenever they come back to her town. Her town became war-stricken because of the new tyranny at the time. The merchant lost their wealth and put her back on the slave trade. Maire would escape this time. The tyrant died from natural causes, leaving the town in ruins forcing people to leave that town. So she travel for awhile, dancing for money, etc. She enters Adeline's campaign to fight against her neighboring kingdom Adipiscor. Where she wanted to be somebody and change the world with her dancing.
2. "I shall show my moves across the field of battle."
6. "What word to use on how terrible your skills are? Nice work. Don't sound right."
Maire as a girl's name has Irish and Latin origins. The meaning of Maire is "star of the sea". Is related to the names Mare and Mary.
The name Maire is primarily a female name of Irish origin that means Of The Sea Or Bitter.
The name Larsa is a girl's name meaning "crowned with laurel". Larsa was the name of a city-state in Sumer, an ancient Mesopotamian civilization. It is occasionally used as a baby name in Arabic-speaking cultures, as well as in Sweden, where Larsa is a feminization of Lars.
Maire was born in a dirty squat in a far town of Basra Vila, Gione . She'd limited to some knowledge in some areas. She knows how to read basic reading and some math, but most of her knowledge was dancing because she falling in love with a dancer who was dancing in her town. A dancer, Maire was young at the time. At the age of 13 she was sold in slavery to a wealthy merchant. She would fetch their meal and clothing, even wash and set their clothes. When she mess up, she was beaten servely on her arms and back. That would leave unable to move for days. Whenever she get a break, she would practice dancing.
Popular pages																																														Clans																																							Vin																															Zhou																															Kingdom of Murcia																															Gui Ernir																															Hei Jin																															Adipiscor																															Tora Weii																																																Novel																																							Book																																																Author																																							Author																																																Battles																																							Battle of Di Shi Shi																															Sack of Azurad																																																Locations																																							Edhessesas																															Ellond																															Hithlonde																															Gione																															Gelonde																																																Religion																																							Oryjucism																															Atheos																															Druhito																															Teokhi																															Pukleshi																															Suutism																															Bujisha
They have stylish taste. The people they lived with were sweet as apple pie.They married a school teacher from a nearby school that teaches dancing. They still have a lazy attitude now after twenty years. She does not have no kids, and as she feel like she would fail them like her parents did to her.
Clans																																							Vin																															Zhou																															Kingdom of Murcia																															Gui Ernir																															Hei Jin																															Adipiscor																															Tora Weii
Create a translatable help page (preferably in English) for this property to be included here
@Trade: I'd like to link gender non-conformity (Q4135211) to Jo March (Q27902552) using personality trait of fictional character (P9652). Currently this is not allowed. Should we broaden the scope of this property to include also attitudes? Or is there another item that could be used to cover gender non-conformity (Q4135211) as a personality trait? Should we create a new one? - Valentina.Anitnelav (talk) 12:08, 12 May 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
create Create a translatable help page (preferably in English) for this property to be included here]
I commented there. If some other property should be used, it would be helpful if replacement property (P6824) was added. --- Jura 05:48, 12 July 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
@Trade: can you explain how you selected the values to add? --- Jura 17:11, 11 July 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
This page was last edited on 16 May 2022, at 13:46.
1838,L[etitia] E[lizabeth] L[andon],Duty and Inclination, volume III, London: Henry Colburn, page 235:Perhaps no man in the world had less than Douglas the pharisaical precision of Methodism; he was totally averse to their sudden and evanescent flights of enthusiasm, their frantic ravings of intemperate zeal in devotion, as if invoking a vindictive and implacable Deity; […]
Perhaps no man in the world had less than Douglas the pharisaical precision of Methodism; he was totally averse to their sudden and evanescent flights of enthusiasm, their frantic ravings of intemperate zeal in devotion, as if invoking a vindictive and implacable Deity; […]
1838,L[etitia] E[lizabeth] L[andon],Duty and Inclination, volume III, London: Henry Colburn, page 235:
(chiefly Christianity) Emphasizing the observance of ritual or practice over the meaning; self-righteous, hypocritical. [from 16th c.]1838,L[etitia] E[lizabeth] L[andon],Duty and Inclination, volume III, London: Henry Colburn, page 235:Perhaps no man in the world had less than Douglas the pharisaical precision of Methodism; he was totally averse to their sudden and evanescent flights of enthusiasm, their frantic ravings of intemperate zeal in devotion, as if invoking a vindictive and implacable Deity; […]2012, Piers Brendon, ‘Beginning the Dissent’, Literary Review, vol. 401:Thus Aurobindo Ghose stated that the puritanical, pharisaical British conquered in the name of liberty and usurped under the cloak of altruism.
This page was last edited on 27 November 2022, at 22:35.
1 English1.1 Alternative forms1.2 Etymology1.3 Pronunciation1.4 Adjective1.4.1 Synonyms1.4.2 Related terms1.4.3 Translations1.4.4 See also
2012, Piers Brendon, ‘Beginning the Dissent’, Literary Review, vol. 401:Thus Aurobindo Ghose stated that the puritanical, pharisaical British conquered in the name of liberty and usurped under the cloak of altruism.
