1 English1.1 Etymology1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Adjective1.3.1 Derived terms1.3.2 Translations1.4 Verb1.4.1 Related terms1.5 Noun1.5.1 Derived terms1.5.2 Translations1.6 Anagrams
The act of one who cares.1988,Thomas Stephen Szasz,The Myth of Psychotherapy, page 183:As I showed, although some rhetoricians, such as Mesmer and Erb, claimed that their interventions were medical treatments, others, such as Freud and Jung, claimed that their interventions were both medical curings and spiritual carings.
As I showed, although some rhetoricians, such as Mesmer and Erb, claimed that their interventions were medical treatments, others, such as Freud and Jung, claimed that their interventions were both medical curings and spiritual carings.
This page was last edited on 17 January 2023, at 00:38.
1988,Thomas Stephen Szasz,The Myth of Psychotherapy, page 183:As I showed, although some rhetoricians, such as Mesmer and Erb, claimed that their interventions were medical treatments, others, such as Freud and Jung, claimed that their interventions were both medical curings and spiritual carings.
(of a person) Kind, sensitive, or empathetic.She's a very caring person; she always has a kind word for everyone.
From care +‎ -ing. The adjective follows from the verb.
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
You can browse from the homepage or use the search box above to find the information you need.
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
If you entered a web address, check it is correct.
To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. We’ll send you a link to a feedback form. It will take only 2 minutes to fill in. Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.
Control and Rehabilitation Effort, a behavior modification program implemented in 1968 at United States Penitentiary, Marion
CARE (New Zealand), Citizens Association for Racial Equality, a former New Zealand organisation
Health care, the treatment and management of illness, and the preservation of health through services offeredCare of residents, care given to adults or children outside of the patient's homeHome care, health care or supportive care provided in the patient's home by healthcare professionalsPrimary care, routine health care, usually the first provided a patient seesPrimary healthcare, a series of principles geared towards making health care available
Cahir, a town in County Tipperary, Ireland (pronounced roughly 'care')
Continuous time Algebraic Riccati equation, or CARE, a matrix equation
Charged Aerosol Release Experiment, a NASA project concerning dust in space
"Care" (Law & Order: UK), the 2009 premiere episode of the British television series, Law & Order: UK
"Care", a 2001 episode of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit
This page was last edited on 15 September 2022, at 11:19 (UTC).
Crew Module Atmospheric Re-entry Experiment, a 2014 ISRO experimental vehicle
Managed care, a variety of techniques intended to reduce the cost of providing health benefits and improve the quality of care
Home care, health care or supportive care provided in the patient's home by healthcare professionals
Care of residents, care given to adults or children outside of the patient's home
Day care, the care of a child during the day by a person other than the child's parents or legal guardians
Foster care, a system by which a certified, stand-in "parent(s)" cares for minor children or young people
Cura (mythology) or Care, figure in ancient Roman Fabulae of Hyginus
Elderly care, the fulfillment of the special needs and requirements that are unique to senior citizens
Vulnerability and Care Theory of Love, the view that care is an integral part of romantic love
CARE (relief agency), "Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere", an international aid and development organization
Intensive care medicine, provision of life support or organ support systems in patients who are critically ill
Child care, the act of caring for and supervising minor children
Christian Action Research and Education, a Christian lobby group in the United Kingdom
Career Average Revalued Earnings, or CARE, part of the recommendations in the UK's Independent Public Services Pensions Commission report
Primary healthcare, a series of principles geared towards making health care available
Theology of relational care, a theology of understanding how contemporary followers of Jesus can relate to others
Primary care, routine health care, usually the first provided a patient sees
