Out of it is separated elemental fire, the fire which we know, which burns and destroys; and this condenses into air; a further step in the downward path produces water and earth from the solidification of air.[24] At every stage the degree of tension is slackened, and the resulting element approaches more and more to "inert" matter.[16] But, just as one element does not wholly transform into another (e.g. only a part of air is transmuted into water or earth), so the pneuma itself does not wholly transform into the elements.[16] From the elements the one substance is transformed into the multitude of individual things in the orderly cosmos, which is itself a living thing or being, and the pneuma pervading it, and conditioning life and growth everywhere, is its soul.[16]
A certain warmth, akin to the vital heat of organic being, seems to be found in inorganic nature: vapours from the earth, hot springs, sparks from the flint, were claimed as the last remnant of pneuma not yet utterly slackened and cold.[60] They appealed also to the speed and expansion of gaseous bodies, to whirlwinds and inflated balloons.[60]
^ a b c d e f g Hicks 1911, p. 943
A dualistic feature of the Stoic system are the two principles, the active and the passive: everything which exists is capable of acting and being acted upon.[2] The active principle is God acting as the rational principle (logos), and which has a higher status than the passive matter (ousia).[3] In their earlier writings the Stoics characterised the rational principle as a creative fire,[8] but later accounts stress the idea of breath, or pneuma, as the active substance.[Note b] The cosmos is thus filled with an all-pervading pneuma which allows for the cohesion of matter and permits contact between all parts of the cosmos.[15] Thepneuma is everywhere coextensive with matter, pervading and permeating it, and, together with it, occupying and filling space.[16]
This page was last edited on 20 January 2023, at 07:33 (UTC).
In pursuing their physics the Stoics wanted to create a picture of the world which would be completely coherent.[1] Stoic physics can be described in terms of (a) monism, (b) materialism, and (c) dynamism.[2]
To the Stoics, the cosmos is a single pantheistic god, one which is rational and creative, and which is the basis of everything which exists.Nothing incorporeal exists. The nature of the world is one of unceasing change, driven by the active part or reason (logos) of God which pervades all things. The active substance of the world is characterized as a 'breath', or pneuma, which provides form and motion to matter, and is the origin of the elements, life, and human rationality. The cosmos proceeds from an original state in utmost heat, and, in the cooling and separation that occurs, all things appear which are only different and stages in the change of primitive being. Eventually though, the world will be reabsorbed into the primary substance, to be consumed in a general conflagration (ekpyrôsis), out of which a new cycle begins again.
The pneuma of the Stoics is the primitive substance which existed before the cosmos. It is the everlasting presupposition of particular things; the totality of all existence; out of it the whole of nature proceeds, eventually to be consumed by it. It is the creative force (God) which develops and shapes the universal order (cosmos). God is everything that exists.[16]
The soul is corporeal, else it would have no real existence, would be incapable of extension in three dimensions (i.e. to diffuse all over the body), incapable of holding the body together, herein presenting a sharp contrast to the Epicurean tenet that it is the body which confines and shelters the atoms of soul.[60] This corporeal soul is reason, mind, and ruling principle; in virtue of its divine origin Cleanthes can say to Zeus, "We too are thy offspring," and Seneca can calmly insist that, if man and God are not on perfect equality, the superiority rests rather on our side.[63] What God is for the world, the soul is for humans. The cosmos is a single whole, its variety being referred to varying stages of condensation in pneuma.[60] So, too, the human soul must possess absolute simplicity, its varying functions being conditioned by the degrees of its tension. There are no separate "parts" of the soul, as previous thinkers imagined.[60]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Mannsfeld, Jaap (September 1983). "Resurrection Added: The Interpretatio Christiana of a Stoic Doctrine". Vigiliae Christianae. 37, No. 3 (Sep., 1983) (3): 218–233. doi:10.1163/157007283X00089 – via JSTOR.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Mannsfeld, Jaap (September 1983). "Resurrection Added: The Interpretatio Christiana of a Stoic Doctrine". Vigiliae Christianae. 37, No. 3 (Sep., 1983) (3): 218–233. doi:10.1163/157007283X00089 – via JSTOR.
^ M. Lapidge, "Stoic Cosmology," in The Stoics, ed. J. Rist (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1978): pp. 183–184
Brennan, Tad (2005). The Stoic Life: Emotions, Duties, and Fate. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0199256268.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m Hicks 1911, p. 945
^ a b c d e f Hicks 1911, p. 947
^ a b c d e f g h i
Karamanolis, George E. (2013). "Free will and divine providence". The Philosophy of Early Christianity. Ancient Philosophies (1st ed.). New York and London: Routledge. p. 151. ISBN 9781844655670.
White, Michael J. (2003), "Stoic Natural Philosophy (Physics and Cosmology)",in Inwood, Brad (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to the Stoics, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0521779855
In a higher degree of tension the pneuma produces soul (psyche) to all animals, providing them with sensation and impulse.[61]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m
Frede, Dorothea (2003), "Stoic Determinism",in Inwood, Brad (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to the Stoics, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0521779855
In the lowest degree of tension the pneuma dwelling in inorganic bodies holds bodies together (whether animate or inanimate) providing cohesion (hexis).[61] This is the type of pneuma present in stone or metal as a retaining principle.[60]
The earlier Stoics made right reason the standard of truth.[65] Zeno compared sensation to the outstretched hand, flat and open; bending the fingers was assent; the clenched fist was "simple apprehension," the mental grasp of an object; knowledge was the clenched fist tightly held in the other hand.[66] But this criterion was open to the persistent attacks of Epicureans and Academics, who made clear (1) that reason is dependent upon, if not derived from, sense, and (2) that the utterances of reason lack consistency.[64] Chrysippus, therefore, did much to develop Stoic logic,[67] and more clearly defined and safeguarded his predecessors' position.[64]
As to the relation between the active and the passive principles there was no clear difference.[16] Although the Stoics talked about the active and passive as two separate types of body, it is likely they saw them as merely two aspects of the single material cosmos.[19] Pneuma, from this perspective, is not a special substance intermingled with passive matter, but rather it could be said that the material world has pneumatic qualities.[19] The diversity of the world is explained though the transformations and products of this eternal principle.[8]
In one sense the Stoics believed that this is the best of all possible worlds.[40] Only God or Nature is good,[41] and Nature is perfectly rational.[42] It is an organic unity and completely ordered.[43] The goodness of Nature manifests in the way it works to arrange things in the most rational way.[42] For the Stoics this is therefore the most reasonable, the most rational, of all possible worlds.[44][45]
Like Aristotle, the Stoics conceived of the cosmos as being finite with the Earth at the centre and the moon, sun, planets, and fixed stars surrounding it.[20] Similarly, they rejected the possibility of any void (i.e. vacuum) within the cosmos since that would destroy the coherence of the universe and the sympathy of its parts.[21] However, unlike Aristotle, the Stoics saw the cosmos as an island embedded in an infinite void.[15] The cosmos has its own hexis which holds it together and protects it and the surrounding void cannot affect it.[22] The cosmos can, however, vary in volume, allowing it to expand and contract in volume through its cycles.[21]
Divination was an essential element of Greek religion, and the Stoics attempted to reconcile it with their own rational doctrine of strict causation.[35] Since the pneuma of the world-soul pervades the whole universe, this allows human souls to be influenced by divine souls.[54] Omens and portents, Chrysippus explained, are the natural symptoms of certain occurrences. There must be countless indications of the course of providence, for the most part unobserved, the meaning of only a few having become known to humanity.[35] To those who argued that divination was superfluous as all events are foreordained, he replied that both divination and our behaviour under the warnings which it affords are included in the chain of causation.[35]
a. .mw-parser-output .citation{word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}^Some historians prefer to describe Stoic doctrine as "corporealism" rather than "materialism". One objection to the materialism label relates to a narrow 17th/18th-century conception of materialism whereby things must be "explained by the movements and combination of passive matter" (Gourinat 2009, p. 48). Since Stoicism is vitalistic it is "not materialism in the strict sense" (Gourinat 2009, p. 68). A second objection refers to a Stoic distinction between mere bodies (which extend in three dimensions and offer resistance), and material bodies which are "constituted by the presence with one another of both [active and passive] principles, and by the effects of one principle on the other". The active and passive principles are bodies but not material bodies under this definition (Cooper 2009, p. 100).b. ^The concept of pneuma (as a "vital breath") was prominent in the Hellenistic medical schools. Its precise relationship to the "creative fire" (pyr technikon) of the early Stoics is unclear. Some ancient sources state that pneuma was a combination of elemental fire and air (these two elements being "active"). But in Stoic writings pneuma behaves much like the active principle, and it seems they adopted pneuma as a straight swap for the creative fire.[68]
The process of differentiation is not eternal; it continues only until the time of the restoration of all things. For the cosmos will in turn decay, and the tension which has been relaxed will again be tightened.Things will gradually resolve into elements, and the elements into the primary substance, to be consumed in a general conflagration when once more the world will be absorbed in God.[16] This ekpyrôsis is not so much a catastrophic event, but rather the period of the cosmic cycle when the preponderance of the fiery element once again reaches its maximum.[25] All matter is consumedbecoming completely fiery and wholly soul-like.[26] God, at this point, can be regarded as completely existing in itself.[27]
Jacquette, Dale (1995-12-01). "Zeno of Citium on the divinity of the cosmos". Studies in Religion/Sciences Religieuses. 24 (4): 415–431. doi:10.1177/000842989502400402. S2CID 171126287.
The extent to which Stoics discussed and disagreed regarding Ekpyrosis is largely attributed to works of Hippolytus of Rome, found in the Stoicorum Veterum Fragmenta.
Since the world operates through reason, all things are determined. But the Stoics adopted a compatibilist view which allowed humans freedom and responsibility within the causal network of fate. Humans are part of the logos which permeates the cosmos. The human soul is a physical unity of reason and mind. The good for a human is thus to be fully rational, behaving as Nature does in the natural order.
^ a b c d e Sellars 2006, p. 105
The Stoics often identified the universe and God with Zeus,[37] as the ruler and upholder, and at the same time the law, of the universe.[35] The Stoic God is not a transcendent omniscient being standing outside nature, but rather it is immanent—the divine element is immersed in nature itself.[37][38] God orders the world for the good,[39] and every element of the world contains a portion of the divine element that accounts for its behaviour.[37] The reason of things—that which accounts for them—is not some external end to which they are tending; it is something acting within them, "a spirit deeply interfused," germinating and developing from within.[16]
Algra, Keimpe (2003), "Stoic Theology",in Inwood, Brad (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to the Stoics, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0521779855
Stoic physics refers to the natural philosophy of the Stoic philosophers of ancient Greece and Rome which they used to explain the natural processes at work in the universe.
In the next degree of tension the pneuma provides nature or growth (physis)to living things.[61] This is the highest level in which it is found in plants.[60]
Hicks, Robert Drew (1911). "Stoics" .In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 25 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp. 942–951.
Ekpyrosis itself however, was not a universally accepted theory by all Stoics.[32] Other prominent stoics such as Panaetius, Zeno of Tarsus, Boethus of Sidon, and others either rejected Ekpyrosis or had differing opinions regarding its degree.[33] A strong acceptance of Aristotle's theories of the universe, combined with a more practical lifestyle practiced by the Roman people, caused the later Stoics to focus their main effort on their own social well-being on earth, not on the cosmos.[34] A prime example are the Stoic-influenced writings of the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius (121–180). In his Meditations, he chooses to discuss how one should act and live their life, rather than speculate on cosmological theories.
Frede, Michael (1999). "On the Stoic Conception of the Good".In Ierodiakonou, Katerina (ed.). Topics in Stoic Philosophy. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0198237685.
In the original state, the pneuma-God and the cosmos are absolutely identical; but even then tension, the essential attribute of matter, is at work.[16] In the primitive pneuma there resides the utmost heat and tension, within which there is a pressure, an expansive and dispersive tendency. Motion backwards and forwards once set up cools the glowing mass of fiery vapour and weakens the tension.[16] Thus follows the first differentiation of primitive substance—the separation of force from matter, the emanation of the world from God. The seminal Logos which, in virtue of its tension, slumbered in pneuma, now proceeds upon its creative task.[16] The cycle of its transformations and successive condensations constitutes the life of the cosmos.[16] The cosmos and all its parts are only different embodiments and stages in the change of primitive being which Heraclitus had called "a progress up and down".[23]
In due order a new cycle of the cosmos begins (palingenesis), reproducing the previous world, and so on forever.[28] Therefore, the same events play out again repeated endlessly.[29] Since the cosmos always unfolds according to the best possible reason, any succeeding world is likely to be identical to the previous one.[30] Thus in the same way that the cosmos occupies a finite space in an infinite void, so it can be understood to occupy a finite period in an infinite span of time.[31]
In the rational creatures pneuma is manifested in the highest degree of purity and intensity as an emanation from the world-soul.[60] Humans have souls because the universe has a soul,[62] and human rationality is the same as God's rationality.[3] The pneuma that is soul pervades the entire human body.[61]
^ a b c d e f g h i Hicks 1911, p. 946
In humans can be found the pneuma in its highest form as the rational soul (logike psyche).[61]
Philosophers since the time of Plato had asked whether abstract qualities such as justice and wisdom, have an independent existence.[9] Plato in his Sophist dialogue (245e–249d) had argued that since qualities such as virtue and vice cannot be 'touched', they must be something very different from ordinary bodies.[10] The Stoics' answer to this dilemma was to assert that everything, including wisdom, justice, etc., are bodies.[11] Plato had defined being as "that which has the power to act or be acted upon,"[12] and for the Stoics this meant that all action proceeds by bodily contact; every form of causation is reduced to the efficient cause, which implies the communication of motion from one body to another.[2] Only Body exists.[13] The Stoics did recognise the presence of incorporeal things such as void, place and time,[13] but although real they could not exist and were said to "subsist".[14] Stoicism was thus fully materialistic;[Note a] the answers to metaphysics are to be sought in physics; particularly the problem of the causes of things for which Plato's theory of forms and Aristotle's "substantial form" had been put forth as solutions.[2]
None of the events which occur by Nature are inherently bad;[46] but nor are they intrinsically 'good' even though they have been caused by a good agent.[45][47] The natural patterning of the world—life, death, sickness, health, etc.—is made up of morally indifferent events which in themselves are neither good nor bad.[44] Such events are not unimportant, but they only have value in as far as they contribute to a life according to Nature.[48] As reasoning creatures, humans have a share in Nature's rationality. The good for a human is to be fully rational, behaving as Nature does to maintain the natural order.[49] This means to know the logic of the good, to understand the rational explanation of the universe, and the nature and possibilities of being human.[43] The only evil for a human is to behave irrationally—to fail to act upon reason—such a person is insane.[43]
The Stoics explained perception as a transmission of the perceived quality of an object, by means of the sense organ, into the percipient's mind.[64] The quality transmitted appears as a disturbance or impression upon the corporeal surface of that "thinking thing," the soul.[64] In the example of sight, a conical pencil of rays diverges from the pupil of the eye, so that its base covers the object seen. A presentation is conveyed, by an air-current, from the sense organ, here the eye, to the mind, i.e. the soul's "ruling part." The presentation, besides attesting its own existence, gives further information of its object—such as colour or size.[64] Zeno and Cleanthes compared this presentation to the impression which a seal bears upon wax, while Chrysippus determined it more vaguely as a hidden modification or mode of mind.[64] But the mind is no mere passive recipient of impressions: the mind assents or dissents.[64] The contents of experience are not all true or valid: hallucination is possible; here the Stoics agreed with the Epicureans.[64] It is necessary, therefore, that assent should not be given indiscriminately; we must determine a criterion of truth, a special formal test whereby reason may recognize the merely plausible and hold fast the true.[64]
Christensen, Johnny (2012). An Essay on the Unity of Stoic Philosophy. Museum Tusculanum Press. University of Copenhagen. ISBN 9788763538985.
Gourinat, Jean-Baptiste (2009). "The Stoics on Matter and Prime Matter".In Salles, Ricardo (ed.). God and Cosmos in Stoicism. Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780199556144.
Long, A. A. (1996), "Heraclitus and Stoicism", Stoic Studies, University of California Press, ISBN 0520229746
Cooper, John M. (2009). "Chrysippus on Physical Elements".In Salles, Ricardo (ed.). God and Cosmos in Stoicism. Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780199556144.
To fully characterize the physical world, the Stoics developed a theory of mixing in which they recognised three types of mixture.[55] The first type was a purely mechanical mixture such as mixing barley and wheat grains together: the individual components maintain their own properties, and they can be separated again.[55] The second type was a fusion, whereby a new substance is created leading to the loss of the properties of the individual components, this roughly corresponds to the modern concept of a chemical change.[55] The third type was a commingling, or total blending: there is complete interpenetration of the components down to the infinitesimal, but each component maintains its own properties.[56] In this third type of mixture a new substance is created, but since it still has the qualities of the two original substances, it is possible to extract them again.[57] In the words of Chrysippus: "there is nothing to prevent one drop of wine from mixing with the whole ocean".[56] Ancient critics often regarded this type of mixing as paradoxical since it apparently implied that each constituent substance be the receptacle of each other.[58] However to the Stoics, the pneuma is like a force, a continuous field interpenetrating matter and spreading through all of space.[59]
Stoicism was a pantheistic philosophy.[3] The cosmos is active, life-giving, rational and creative.[4] It is a single cohesive unit,[5] a self-supporting entity containing within it all that it needs, and all parts depending on mutual exchange with each other.[6] Different parts of this unified structure are able to interact and have an affinity with each other (sympatheia).[7] The Stoics explained everything from natural events to human conduct as manifestations of an all-pervading reason (logos).[1] Thus they identified the universe with God,[3] and the diversity of the world is explained through the transformations and products of God as the rational principle of the cosmos.[8]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m Hicks 1911, p. 944
To the Stoics nothing passes unexplained; there is a reason (Logos) for everything in nature.[2] Because of the Stoics' commitment to the unity and cohesion of the cosmos and its all-encompassing reason, they fully embraced determinism.[50] However instead of a single chain of causal events, there is instead a many-dimensional network of events interacting within the framework of fate.[51] Out of this swarm of causes, the course of events is fully realised.[51] Humans appear to have free will because personal actions participate in the determined chain of events independently of external conditions.[52] This "soft-determinism" allows humans to be responsible for their own actions, alleviating the apparent arbitrariness of fate.[52][53]
M. Lapidge, "Stoic Cosmology," in The Stoics, ed. J. Rist (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1978): pp. 183–184
The Epicureans had placed the form and movement of matter in the chance movements of primitive atoms.[2] In the Stoic system material substance has a continuous structure, held together by tension (tonos) as the essential attribute of body.[2][17] This tension is a property of the pneuma, and physical bodies are held together by the pneuma which is in a continual state of motion.[18] The various pneuma currents combining give objects their stable, physical properties (hexis).[18] A thing is no longer, as Plato maintained, hot or hard or bright by partaking in abstract heat or hardness or brightness, but by containing within its own substance the material of these pneuma currents in various degrees of tension.[16]
^ The extent to which Stoics discussed and disagreed regarding Ekpyrosis is largely attributed to works of Hippolytus of Rome, found in the Stoicorum Veterum Fragmenta.
With this psychology is intimately connected the Stoic theory of knowledge. From the unity of soul it follows that all mental processes—sensation, assent, impulse—proceed from reason, the ruling part; the one rational soul alone has sensations, assents to judgments, is impelled towards objects of desire just as much as it thinks or reasons.[60] Not that all these powers at once reach full maturity. The soul at first is empty of content; in the embryo it has not developed beyond the nutritive principle of a plant; at birth the "ruling part" is a blank tablet, although ready prepared to receive writing.[60] The source of knowledge is experience and discursive thought, which manipulates the materials of sense. Our ideas are copied from stored-up sensations.[60]
Zeller, Eduard (1892), The Stoics: Epicureans and Sceptics, Longmans, Green, and Company, ISBN 0521779855
Every character and property of a particular thing is determined solely by the tension in it of pneuma, and pneuma, though present in all things, varies indefinitely in quantity and intensity.[60]
Just as a relaxation in tension brings about the dissolution of the universe; so in the body, a relaxation of tension, accounts for sleep, decay, and death for the human body. After death the disembodied soul can only maintain its separate existence, even for a limited time, by mounting to that region of the universe which is akin to its nature. It was a moot point whether all souls so survive, as Cleanthes thought, or the souls of the wise and good alone, which was the opinion of Chrysippus; in any case, sooner or later individual souls are merged in the soul of the universe, from which they originated.[60]
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
The Stoics attempted to incorporate traditional polytheism into their philosophy.[35] Not only was the primitive substance God, the one supreme being, but divinity could be ascribed to the manifestations—to the heavenly bodies, to the forces of nature, even to deified persons; and thus the world was peopled with divine agencies.[35] Prayer is of apparently little help in a rationally ordered cosmos, and surviving examples of Stoic prayers appear to be more like types of self-meditation than appeals for divine intervention.[36]
The latter two analogies seem to point to the idea that the purpose ofphilosophy, according to the Stoics, is to become virtuous, that is,to attain wisdom and thereby lead the good life, so that theoverarching goal (the crop or the egg white, which the ancientsassumed was nourished by the yolk) is ethical. Nonetheless, the otherparts of philosophy play an essential and necessary part in achievingthis goal, and the orthodox Stoic position is that mastery of allthree parts of philosophy is required for human flourishing. This isapparent in the way the Stoics treat a number of philosophicalquestions and in the many connections visible between the differentparts of their theory: conclusions in one part of Stoic philosophytend to reinforce and ratify those in another. For recent discussionof the unity of the Stoic system, see Bronowski 2019, ch. 1; cf.Christensen 1962, Ierodiakonou 1993, and Inwood 2012. For debates onthe connection of Stoic ethics to other parts of the system,especially physics, see Annas 1993, who takes the ethical part to belargely independent of physical theory, and Cooper 1999a and 2012, whosees them as thoroughly intertwined (see also Betegh 2003).
To bring our mind into this state of agreement and achieve thetelos, the Stoics argue that only one thing is needed:virtue. Virtue is the perfected condition of human reason (Seneca,63D), or “a soul which has been fashioned to achieve consistency[or agreement, homologia] in the whole of life”(Diogenes Laertius, 61A). Having developed her own power of reason toits fullest extent, the virtuous agent not only lives a life that isthe highest expression of human nature – the best possiblecondition for a human being to be in, given the kind of creature weare – but also replicates in herself the condition of the divine(Seneca, 60H; Plutarch, 61J). To live virtuously is therefore to livein agreement with both human nature and cosmic or divine nature atonce (Chrysippus in Diogenes Laertius, 63C).
–––, 1986, Hellenistic Philosophy: Stoics,Epicureans, Skeptics, 2nd edition, London: Duckworth.
–––, 2015, ‘Two Early Stoic Theories ofCosmogony’, in A. Marmodoro and B. D. Prince (eds.),Causation and Creation in Late Antiquity, Cambridge:Cambridge University Press, 11–30.
Open access to the SEP is made possible by a world-wide funding initiative.The Encyclopedia Now Needs Your SupportPlease Read How You Can Help Keep the Encyclopedia Free
What, then, is the Stoic account of the end? How do they describe thekind of activity in which human happiness consists?
Atherton, C. and D. Blank, 2003, ‘The Stoic Contribution toTraditional Grammar’, in B. Inwood (ed.), The CambridgeCompanion to the Stoics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,310–327.
Menn, S., 1995, ‘Physics as a Virtue’, Proceedingsof the Boston Area Colloquium of Ancient Philosophy, 11(1):1–34.
Bobzien, S. and S. Shogry, 2020, ‘Stoic Logic and MultipleGenerality’, Philosophers’ Imprint, 20(31):1–36.
In accord with their ontology, the Stoics make God a corporeal entity,identical with the active principle. God is further characterized aseternal reason (logos: Diogenes Laertius, 44B) or intelligentdesigning fire or breath (pneuma) which structures matter inaccordance with its plan (Aetius, 46A). The Stoic God is thus immanentthroughout the cosmos and directs its development down to the smallestdetail. The entire cosmos is a living thing, and God stands to thecosmos as an animal’s life force stands to the animal’sbody, enlivening, moving and directing it by its presence throughout.The designing fire is likened to sperm or seed which contains thefirst principles or directions of all the things which willsubsequently develop (Diogenes Laertius, 46B; Aristocles in Eusebius,46G). This makes cosmic nature and all its parts inherently governedby a rational force. God and divine actions are not, like the gods ofGreek Mythology, random and unpredictable. It is rather orderly,rational, and providential. The association of God withpneuma may have its origins in medical theories of theHellenistic period: see Baltzly 2003 and Annas 1992. On the issue ofGod and its relation to the cosmos in Stoicism, see the essays inSalles 2009.
is stamped and impressed exactly in accordance with what is,
Law, Reason, and the Cosmic City: PoliticalPhilosophy in the Early Stoa
As of January 2023, this entry has been rewritten by Marion Durand andSimon Shogry. However, some material from the previous version by DirkBaltzly has been retained (with permission) and so he is credited as aco-author.
3. Logic		3.1 Rhetoric and Dialectic	3.2 Philosophy of Language and Lekta	3.3 Propositions	3.4 Syllogistic	3.5 Modality	3.6 Paradoxes	3.7 Epistemology
Tieleman, T. L., 2007, ‘Panaetius’ Place in theHistory of Stoicism. With Special Reference to his MoralPsychology’, in A.M. Ioppolo and D.N. Sedley (eds.),Pyrrhonists, Patricians and Platonizers, Napoli: Bibliopolis,103–142.
Shogry, S., 2018, ‘Creating a Mind Fit for Truth: The Roleof Expertise in the Stoic Account of the Kataleptic Impression’,Ancient Philosophy, 38(2): 357–381.
–––, 2022, ‘Clear and Distinct Perception in theStoics, Augustine, and William of Ockham’, Proceedings ofthe Aristotelian Society (Supplementary Volume), 96(1):185–207.
As we saw above (2.7) in the context of Stoic physics – i.e. the study of nature– God or Zeus is identified with the active principle of theuniverse, the corporeal mind present everywhere within it, structuringand shaping the underlying matter according to an all-encompassing,perfectly rational plan. For a human being to live “inagreement” (homologoumenôs) with cosmic naturetherefore requires attuning her own reason (logos) with thatof the whole, by thinking the same thoughts about her situation andcircumstances as does Zeus in governing the portion of the world sheoccupies (Cooper 2012). In this way, the flourishing agent lives inconformity “with the will of the administrator as thewhole” (Diogenes Laertius, 63C).
Greene, B., 2018. The Imperfect Present: Stoic Physics ofTime, University of California/San Diego DoctoralDissertation.
Mignucci, M., 1999, ‘The Liar Paradox and the Stoics’,in K. Ierodiakonou (ed.), Topics in Stoic Philosophy, Oxford:Oxford University Press, 54–70.
Volume 3: Ethics Fragments of Chrysippus and some fragments of his pupils
–––, 2000, Emotion and Peace of Mind: from StoicAgitation to Christian Temptation, Oxford: Oxford UniversityPress.
From these sources, scholars have assembled collections of quotationsand doxographical reports. The first collection of its kind, vonArnim’s Stoicorum Veterum Fragmenta (SVF), gatheredfragments of Stoic works and testimonia in their original Greek andLatin into a three-volume set in 1903–5. Fragments andtestimonia of the early Stoics are often referred to by vonArnim’s volume numbers and text numeration, e.g. SVF I.345. Thesecond half of the 20th century saw a revival of interest inHellenistic philosophy and in the Stoics in particular, not leastthanks to A. A. Long and D. Sedley’s 1987 The HellenisticPhilosophers (LS) which contains (in vol. 1) English translationsand commentary of many important texts on the Stoics, Epicureans, andSkeptics. This was followed by Hellenistic Philosophy in1988, a collection of primary texts edited by B. Inwood and L. P.Gerson, with a second edition in 1997. In 1987, fragments pertainingto dialectic were collected with a German translation in K.Hülser’s Die Fragmente zur Dialektik der Stoiker(FDS). More recently, in 2022, Later Stoicism 155 BCE to CE200 by B. Inwood has made available the works of some oftenneglected Stoic writers.
2. Physical Theory		2.1 Bodies and Incorporeals	2.2 Something: the Supreme Genus	2.3 Principles and Mixture	2.4 Elements	2.5 Cosmic Cycle and Conflagration	2.6 Categories	2.7 God	2.8 Causes and Determinism	2.9 Psychology
Baratin, M., 1989, La naissance de la syntaxe àRome, Paris: Les Editions de Minuit.
Gaskin, R., 1995, The Sea Battle and the Master Argument:Aristotle and Diodorus Cronus on the Metaphysics of the Future,Berlin: De Gruyter.
Engstrom S., and J. Whiting (eds.), 1996, Aristotle, Kant andthe Stoics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Klein, J., 2015, ‘Making Sense of Stoic Indifferents’,Oxford Studies in Ancient Philosophy, 49: 227–281.
What the Stoics call fate, which they identify with the working out ofthe – rational and predictable – will of Zeus, is “acertain natural everlasting ordering of the whole: one set of thingsfollows on and succeeds another, and the interconnexion ininviolable” (Aulus Gellius, 55K). In other words, every eventthat occurs in the world is the result of a cause or chain of causes,so that everything that happens is metaphysically determined bypreceding causes in the chain (but not logically necessary; cf. deHarven 2016). This sequence of causes is inescapable.
Beginning with Zeno, the Stoics characterize cognition(katalêpsis) as an assent to a special kind ofimpression, one that functions as a criterion of truth and thusguarantees its own veridicality: such an impression they call“cognitive” (lit. “cognition-prompting”,katalêptikos) (Sextus, 41C; see also PH 3.241and M 8.397). While some scholars simply transliterate thislabel as “kataleptic”, Long and Sedley’s translationof “cognitive”, whatever its infelicities, helpfullyreplicates the connection, visible in the Greek, with the outcome ofassenting to such an impression: “cognition”. (Similarly,when katalêpsis is translated as “grasp” or“apprehension”, we find “graspable” or“apprehensive” for katalêptikos; Cicerotranslates the two terms into Latin as comprehensio andcomprehendibile, respectively.) So cognition is guaranteed tobe true because it is analyzed as an assent to an impression that isitself guaranteed to be true: cognitive impressions “have apeculiar power of revealing their objects” (Cicero, 40B).
One feature of the happy life brought out by Zeno’s shorterformulation – “living in agreement” – isagreement with oneself. The flourishing human being is freeof both internal psychological division and vacillation in herpractical commitments and priorities, such that she enjoys “agood flow of life” (Stobaeus, 63A). In characterizing theflourishing life as one which adheres to “one concordantreason” (Stobaeus, 63B), i.e. one coherent practical outlookthat is never at odds with itself or discordant over time, Zenorespects what is arguably a basic intuition about human happiness(Cooper 2012; cf. Aristotle, Nic. Eth. 1.4,1095a22–26).
A note on citations in this entry: where possible, we refer to primarytexts using the author’s name, followed by the notation given inLong and Sedley 1987. For example, “Aetius, 26A” refers tochapter 26 of Long and Sedley’s collection, text A, whose authoris Aetius. We use Long and Sedley’s translation unless otherwisenoted.
Propositions are the only bearers of truth-value and the centralentity in much of Stoic philosophy of language and logic. Sometimesalso translated as “assertibles”, Stoic propositions bearsome similarities to the modern proposition, but also some importantdifferences. Notably, Stoic propositions change truth-value over time,so “it is day” is true while it is day, will become falsewhen it is night, and true again the following day, etc. The Stoicsalso distinguish different types of propositions on the basis of theirsubject (Sextus, 34Η; Diogenes Laertius, 34Κ). The majorthree types of simple affirmative propositions are the definite orcategorical, composed of a deictic or demonstrative and a predicate(“this one walks”); the middle or categoreutical, whosesubject is expressed by a noun (“Socrates walks”,“man sits”); and the indefinite whose subject is expressedby an indefinite pronoun (“someone is sitting”). Thesedifferent types of propositions have different semantic but alsoepistemological properties, as a result of the modes of references oftheir subject (Durand 2019). For example, one perhaps surprisingproperty of the definite is that it can only be said of objects towhich one has successfully referred, so that, for example, theproposition “this one is dead”, can only be said ofsomething or someone that exists, but is “destroyed”, thatis, is no longer a proposition and no longer has a truth-value if andwhen the referent ceases to exist. As a result, “this one isdead” can never be said truly, since it would be true only ofobjects to which reference cannot be fixed deictically. This oddfeature is appealed to in the Stoic response to competing accounts ofmodality (3.5).
This idea of world-cycles punctuated by conflagrations raises a numberof questions. Will there be another you reading this encyclopediaentry in the next world cycle? Or merely someone exactly similar toyou? Different sources attribute different answers to the Stoics onthese questions. (For sameness of person, see Alexander, 52F; forsomeone indistinguishable, but somehow not identical, see Origen,52G.) The doctrine of eternal recurrence also bears on the Stoic viewof time. Did they suppose that the moment in the next world cycle atwhich you (or someone indistinguishable from you) reads this entry isa moment in the future (so time is linear) or the very same moment(with some notion of circular time)? The Stoic definition of time asthe “dimension (diastêma) of motion” or“of the world’s motion” (Simplicius, 51A) hardlyseems to settle the question. For a clear exchange on the issue, seeLong 1985 and Hudson 1990; see also Greene 2018 and Salles 2018.
–––, 2017, ‘The Stoics on Identity, Identification,and Peculiar Qualities’, Proceedings of the Boston AreaColloquium of Ancient Philosophy, 32(1): 113–159.
The vehicle for the divine active principle is called pneuma,literally “breath” (Hensley 2020). Pneuma, by itsnature, has a simultaneous movement inward and outward whichconstitutes its inherent “tensility”. Pneumapasses through all (other) bodies; in its outward motion it gives themthe qualities that they have, and in its inward motion makes themunified objects (Nemesius, 47J; cf. Helle 2021). Pneuma comesin gradations and endows the bodies which it pervades with differentqualities as a result. The pneuma which sustains an inanimateobject is a “tenor” (hexis, lit. “aholding”). Pneuma in plants is, in addition,“physique” (phusis, lit. “nature”),and in animals, it is “soul” (psuchê, see 2.9 below).
–––, 1996, Essays on Hellenistic Epistemology andEthics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
–––, 2012, Belief and Truth: A Skeptic Reading ofPlato, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
[Editor’s Note: The following new entry replaces the former entryon this topic by the previous author.]
Since virtue is the perfection of human rationality, and knowledge isthe highest rational achievement open to us, it is unsurprising thatthe Stoics identify the virtues as forms of knowledge. The virtue ofcourage, for instance, just is knowledge of what should be endured andfeared, and the Stoics argue that this virtue is inseparable from allthe rest: whoever has one virtue has them all (61B-H; see Schofield1984). Thus the knowledge that constitutes courage entails asystematic grasp of further topics in ethics (e.g. of what should bedone and what is choiceworthy, the provinces of prudence andmoderation, respectively) and also, remarkably, of the truths of logicand physics as well (Cooper 1999a, Menn 1995; for an alternative view,see Annas 1993). One cannot genuinely know (e.g.) what should beendured or feared without also knowing how knowledge itself isacquired (a topic in logic) and how nature operates in both humanbeings and the cosmos at large (a topic in physics). The knowledgethat makes up virtue therefore ranges beyond the narrowly ethical, andsince knowledge is an all-or-nothing affair, so too is virtue(Plutarch, 61T). For the Stoics, comprehensive knowledge of reality(including but not limited to moral facts) is what is necessary andsufficient to live in agreement with nature and be happy.
von Arnim’s SVF is digitally archived at archive.org:Volume 1: Fragments of Zeno and his followersVolume 2: Logical and Physical Fragments of ChrysippusVolume 3: Ethics Fragments of Chrysippus and some fragments of his pupilsVolume 4: Indices of words, proper names and sources
Cooper, J. M., 2012, Pursuits of Wisdom: Six Ways of Life inAncient Philosophy, Princeton: Princeton University Press.
–––, 1985, ‘The Stoics on World-Conflagration andEverlasting Recurrence’, The Southern Journal ofPhilosophy, 23: 13–17.
Magrin, S., 2018, ‘Nature and Utopia in Epictetus’Theory of Oikeiōsis’, Phronesis, 63(3):293–350.
1. Preliminaries		1.1 The School and its History	1.2 Systematicity	1.3 Sources
For helpful comments on the relation in Stoicism between reasonableimpressions and cognitive impressions, see Brennan 1996 (with DiogenesLaertius, 40F). For articles exploring the influence of Plato’sTheaetetus on the development of the Stoic account of thecognitive impression, see Shogry 2021 and Long 2002.
–––, 1992, Hellenistic Philosophy of Mind,Berkeley: University of California Press.
Swiggers, P., and A. Wouters, (eds.), 2002, Grammatical Theoryand Philosophy of Language in Antiquity (Orbis Supplementa 19).Leuven: Peeters.
The Stoic analysis of causation is peculiar and might sound odd to themodern ear. They say that every cause is a body which becomes thecause to a body of something incorporeal. For instance, the scalpel, abody, becomes the cause to the flesh, a body, of the incorporealpredicate “being cut”. (Sextus, 55B; cf. Stobaeus, 55A).In addition, the Stoics develop a taxonomy of causes, the sources onwhich are complex and not always clear, but which they brought to bearin their defense of compatibilism.
Later Stoicism, 155 BC to AD 200: AnIntroduction and Collection of Sources in Translation
Nawar, T., 2014, ‘The Stoic Account of Apprehension’,Philosophers’ Imprint, 14(29): 1–21.
The Sea Battle and the Master Argument:Aristotle and Diodorus Cronus on the Metaphysics of the Future
Pursuits of Wisdom: Six Ways of Life inAncient Philosophy from Socrates to Plotinus
Long, A. A. and D. N. Sedley, 1987, The HellenisticPhilosophers, 2 vols. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press[LS]
–––, 1999, ‘The Stoic Theory of Categories’,Oxford Studies in Ancient Philosophy, 17: 215–247.
Inwood, B., 2007, Seneca: Selected Philosophical Letters,Translated with Introduction and Commentary, Oxford: OxfordUniversity Press.
One further topic treated as part of Stoic physics is psychology, theaccount of the soul. Here the Stoics argue that the soul is corporeal,i.e. a body of a certain kind, since it is causally efficacious in away that only bodies are. If the soul were incorporeal, as someancient philosophers maintain, then it could not causally interactwith the body it animates, as it does e.g. in feeling pain when thebody suffers a flesh-wound or in causing the cheeks to blush when itfeels shame (Nemesius reporting Cleanthes, 45C). Furthermore, ifx and y come into contact with each other, thenx and y must be bodies. But the soul and the body itanimates are in constant contact, the Stoics hold, and are laterseparated from each other at death (Nemesius reporting Chrysippus,45D). Therefore the soul is corporeal.
A few collections, monographs, and some individual articles referred to above
The influence of Stoicism on Medieval thought has been considered byVerbeke 1983. In general, the handling of Stoic ideas in the contextof Christian orthodoxy required a certain delicacy. While it wasagreed by nearly all that God was not a material being, the state ofthe human soul was a more controversial matter. In general, ancientChristian orthodoxy evolved away from materialist anthropology of thesort found in Tertullian to the immaterialist notion of the soul thatpresent-day Christians take for granted. Medieval Christians felt itnecessary to reject what they called Stoic fatalism, but notions ofconscience and natural law had clear connections with Stoicthought.
–––, 1999b, ‘Posidonius on Emotions’, in hisReason and Emotion, Princeton: Princeton University Press,449–484.
Reydams-Schils, G., 1999, Demiurge and Providence: Stoic andPlatonist Readings of Plato’s Timaeus, Turnhout:Brepols.
One motivation for characterizing the cosmos as a kind of city isStoic thinking on law, which in turn draws on wider tenets of theirphysical and ethical theory. According to the Stoics, to live inagreement with nature and achieve the human telos involves“engaging in no activity wont to be forbidden by the universallaw (ho nomos ho koinos), which is the right reason pervadingeverything and identical to Zeus” (Diogenes Laertius, 63C; citedabove, 4.1). The providential activity of Zeus in administering the cosmos thusserves as universal law, setting a perfectlyrational standard for human beings to follow and emulate (Marcian,67R). So, since “a city is a group of people living in the sameplace and administered by law” (Dio Chrysostom, 67J), and allhuman beings are bound by the universal law of Zeus – a law thatis “diffused over everyone, consistent, everlasting”(Cicero, 67S) – it follows that the cosmos is a kind of acity.
Salles, R., 2005, The Stoics on Determinism andCompatibilism, Burlington VT: Ashgate.
Arcesilaus | Aristotle | Carneades | Cicero | Dialectical School | doxography of ancient philosophy | Epictetus | Epicurus | ethics: ancient | freedom: ancient theories of | Lipsius, Justus | logic: ancient | Marcus Aurelius | Philo of Larissa | Plato: shorter ethical works | political philosophy: ancient | Seneca | Sextus Empiricus | skepticism: ancient | soul, ancient theories of
Long, A. A., 1971, ‘Language and Thought in Stoicism’,in his Problems in Stoicism, London: Athlone,75–113.
The basic idea behind Zeno’s proposal is that, when Scognizes (= has katalêpsis of) p, Ssuccessfully latches on to or grabs hold of a truth, because therelationship between S and p ensures that pcannot be false: roughly, the process through which p entersS’s mind and the clarity and distinctness with whichp is represented are such as to guarantee p’struth. Cognition is therefore factive – there is no cognition offalsehoods – but not all true judgments amount to cognition, aswhen, for instance, one assents to p in a state ofhallucination or intoxication but p happens to be true(Sextus, 40E). Cognition, then, is a mental state characterized in thefirst instance by its representational fidelity to the external worldand not – as with knowledge and ignorance – by thedisposition of the agent to retain or revise it under varyingdialectical circumstances. In this sense, cognition is “placedbetween” knowledge and ignorance (Cicero, 41B): it is anintellectual achievement shared by both Sages and non-Sages (Sextus,41C). This entails, however, that any token cognition that pwill count as either knowledge or ignorance, depending on thecharacter of the cognizer. The Sage’s cognition that pis a piece of knowledge, since it is immutable and systematicallyorganized in the manner described above, while the non-Sage’s isa piece of ignorance (Cicero, 41B), since it is still insecure andprone to be abandoned in the face of contrary argumentative pressure(Plutarch, 31P; see Shogry 2022). This led the Academic skepticArcesilaus to object that cognition will be an empty category and haveno independent existence apart from knowledge and ignorance (cf.Sextus, 41C). But the Stoics have good reasons for presenting theirtripartite distinction as they do, because they see cognition as the“natural foundation” (or “starting point”:principium) for knowledge (Cicero, 41B).
Crucially, for the Stoics, the immutability characterizingS’s knowledge that p does not rest on churlishstubbornness in S or on their unquestioning faith inp, but rather on S’s ability to understandwhat makes p true and why the arguments against p,if ever they are presented to S, are unsound. This thesis hastwo significant consequences. First, to know p requires amastery of a comprehensive suite of dialectical skills, including“irrefutability”, i.e. “strength in argument, so asnot to be carried away into the contradictory” (DiogenesLaertius, 31B), and a grasp of the canons of formal logic and Stoicsyllogistic, in order to distinguish valid from invalid arguments anddetect when the latter are offered in favor of not-p. Second,knowledge is essentially systematic (Stobaeus, 41H). In knowingp, S is in a position to appreciate how pfits into a larger body of information, both within p’sdomain and in other parts of philosophical inquiry. Thus our Stoicsources use “knowledge” to pick out both a stablepsychological condition and a token activity: the knowledge thatp (token activity) is only possible in a mind in whichp has been integrated and organized into a complex unifiedstructure (stable condition) (Vogt 2012, ch. 7; Brennan 2005, ch. 6).For these reasons, the Stoics restrict knowledge to the Sage (Cicero,41A; Sextus, 41C). Only the perfected human agent genuinely knowsanything, because only she possesses the wide-ranging argumentativeexpertise necessary to defend what she has affirmed against anypossible challenge, together with a grasp of the further facts thatexplain its truth.
–––, 2009, God and Cosmos in Stoicism, Oxford:Oxford University Press.
One answer is that, in undergoing a passion, the agent disobeysright reason, i.e. the rationality of the cosmos or theuniversal law of Zeus. To suffer a passion is to be in conflict withnature – to experience “fluttering” rather than the“good flow” of the happy person (Stobaeus, 65A; cf.Stobaeus, 63A) – and is therefore a vicious action parexcellence, one that frustrates the agent’s progresstowards the telos. To see why, we need to introduce furtheraspects of the Stoic account of passions.
Hülser, K., 1987–88. Die Fragmente zur Dialektikder Stoiker, Stuttgart: Frommann-Holzboog Verlag. [FDS]
One central task of Stoic epistemology is to provide an account ofknowledge (epistêmê). Like Plato and Aristotle,the Stoics conceive of knowledge as the paramount intellectualachievement available to human beings and, accordingly, placedemanding conditions on its possession. Knowledge, for the Stoics, isa maximally stable and modally robust grasp of reality, in the sensethat if S knows that p, then not only is ptrue, but also S will not revise their commitment top in response to any degree of dialectical scrutiny that maybe applied to S. This requirement is registered in the Stoicclaim that knowledge is “secure and unchangeable byreason” (Stobaeus, 41H) and seems originally born out ofreflection on the action of Plato’s Socratic dialogues: whoeverasserts p but is led to accept not-p ­as aresult of elenctic cross-examination thereby reveals his own lack ofknowledge of p (even in cases where p happens to betrue) (Frede 1983).
–––, 2021, ‘Frege Plagiarized the Stoics’, inF. Leigh (ed.), Themes in Plato, Aristotle, and HellenisticPhilosophy: Keeling Lectures 2011–2018, London: Universityof London Press, 149–206.
–––, 2022, ‘Colocation and the Stoic Definition ofBlending’, Phronesis, 67(4): 462–497.
From its initial formulation by Zeno, the Stoic account of thecognitive impression was fiercely contested by the school’sskeptical opponents, provoking a centuries-long debate over itstenability (Annas 1990). Academic skeptics, such as Arcesilaus andCarneades, argued that no impression could meet all three clauses ofZeno’s definition (40 H, J), with the result that cognition, asthe Stoics conceive of it, is impossible, since cognitive impressionsdo not exist. For discussion of these Academic arguments, see theentries on Ancient Skepticism, Arcesilaus, Carneades, and Philo of Larissa. Sextus Empiricus presents a number of further arguments devised byPyrrhonian skeptics to show that cognitive impressions cannot serve ascriteria of truth.
of such a kind as could not arise from what is not.”(Sextus, 40E)
Sellars, J. (ed.), 2016, The Routledge Companion to the StoicTradition, New York: Routledge.
Syllogisms are arguments that take the form of one of the fiveso-called “indemonstrables”, which are axiomaticarguments, or can be reduced to one by means of one of four rules ofinference, the themata. The five indemonstrables are familiarargument forms presented in the following abbreviated way (DiogenesLaertius, 36Α, cf. Sextus, M 8.224–5, where“the first” and “the second” are used in placeof p and q, following standard Stoic practice):
The Stoics’ ancient critics replied that this doctrine wasincoherent, even confused, and it is indeed difficult to see howsomething could be both indifferent to our happiness and neverthelessrational to care about and pursue. The ancient critique of the Stoicaccount of indifferents can be formulated as a dilemma (cf. Plutarch,64C; Cicero, 64F, L; see Klein 2015, Barney 2003). According to thesecritics, there are just two ways the Stoics can explain why we shouldpursue health, wealth, and other preferred indifferents, both of whichleading to self-contradiction: either (i) these items really are goodand directly or indirectly contribute to human happiness, or (ii)happiness is not the ultimate practical goal. Option (i) makes thepursuit of these items intelligible, on the grounds that possessingthem is good for human beings and happiness-affecting, but isinconsistent with the Stoic claim that only virtue is good. On thisoption, “preferred indifferents” turn out to be externalgoods by another name. Option (ii) respects the Stoic insistence thatthese items are genuinely indifferent to our happiness, but sacrificesthe bedrock eudaimonist thesis that happiness is “the end, forthe sake of which everything is done” (Stobaeus, 63A). On option(ii), indifferents are pursued for the sake of a goal independentfrom, and standing outside of, the agent’s own happiness, butthis result is one that no eudaimonist school can consistentlyaccept.
Caston, V., 1999, ‘Something or Nothing: The Stoics onConcepts and Universals’, Oxford Studies in AncientPhilosophy, 17: 145–213.
–––, 2002, ‘Zeno’s Definition ofPhantasia Katalēptikē’, in T. Scaltsas and A.S. Mason (eds.), Zeno of Citium and His Legacy: The Philosophy ofZeno, Larnaca: Municipality of Larnaca, 135–54.
Boys-Stones, G., 2018, L. Annaeus Cornutus: Greek Theology,Fragments and Testimonia, Atlanta: Society of BiblicalLiterature. [Greek text with facing page translation, withintroduction and notes]
–––, 2016, ‘The Stoic Argument fromOikeiо̄sis’, Oxford Studies in AncientPhilosophy, 50: 143–200.
Unsurprisingly, then, the Stoics expend no small effort explainingwhat distinguishes cognitive and non-cognitive impressions. Zenoeventually settled on the following three-clause definition of thecognitive impression, which was retained throughout the history of theschool. According to the Stoics, “a cognitive impression is onewhich:
Some scholars see this moment as marking a shift in the Stoic school,from the so-called “Old Stoa” to “MiddleStoicism”, though the relevance and accuracy of thisnomenclature is debated (see Inwood 2022). The latter term isnonetheless frequently used to encompass the work of Stoicphilosophers in the second and first centuries BCE. A significantfeature of the second century is the sharp and powerful attacksagainst Stoic views formulated by the Academic Carneades, to which Antipater of Tarsus, Diogenes’ successor, responded atlength. Diogenes and Antipater also heralded increased engagement withPlatonic (Sedley 2003; Reydams-Schils 1999) and possibly Aristoteliandoctrine, arguably peaking with Panaetius in the second half of 2ndcentury BCE and his student Posidonius in the first century BCE. Fordevelopments from Antipater onwards, see Inwood 2022; for thecontributions of Panaetius and Posidonius and their relation toprevious thinkers, see Tieleman 2007.
Goldschmidt, V., 1972,‘῾Υπάρχειν etὑφιστάναι dans laphilosophie stoïcienne’, Revue Des ÉtudesGrecques, 85(406): 331–344.
–––, 2005, ‘The Emotional Life of the Wise,’in Southern Journal of Philosophy, 43 (Supplement):176–218.
Ebbesen, S., 2009, ‘Priscian and the Philosophers’ inM. Baratin, C. Colombat, L. Holtz (eds.). Priscien: transmissionet refondation de la grammaire, de l’Antiquité auxModernes, Turnhout: Brepols, 85–108.
Meinwald, C., 2005, ‘Ignorance and Opinion in StoicEpistemology’, Phronesis, 50(3): 215–231.
These matters primarily came to the fore in discussions of theso-called Master Argument introduced by Diodorus Cronus. The Master Argument itself does notsurvive and the details are the subject of debate (cf. e.g. Gaskin1995, Denyer 1999). It involved the three apparently inconsistentclaims that (i) past truths are necessary, (ii) nothing impossiblefollows from the possible, and (iii) there is something possible butdoes not yet happen (Epictetus, 38A). Just why these claims areincompatible is not entirely clear, though the Master Argumentreportedly worked to establish this result. In response, one had togive up one of the claims. Which one of them one rejects has seriousimplications for one’s commitments with regards to the notionsof possibility and necessity. Diodorus Cronus rejected (iii), arguingthat what is possible is limited to what either is or will be true atsome point in the future (Boethius, 38C). Among the Stoics, Cleanthesreportedly rejected (i), while Chrysippus rejected (ii). He arguedthat the conditional “if Dion is dead, this one is dead”is a counterexample, by appealing to the semantics of deicticreference and reference failure (Alex. Aphr., 48F, cf. above 3.3 and Durand 2019). This arguably ad hoc argument enablesChrysippus to retain both the necessity of the past and the thesisthat there are things which are possible but do not happen. This inturn allows him to introduce a distinction between metaphysicalnecessity (since all things are fated and pre-determined by antecedentcauses, see above 2.8) and logical necessity (de Harven 2016) at the heart of hiscompatibilist account. For more on Stoic views on modality, seeBobzien 1986.
Frede, M., 1977, ‘The Origins of Traditional Grammar’,reprinted in his 1987 Essays in Ancient Philosophy,Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 338–359.
Lorenz, H., 2011, ‘Posidonius on the Nature and Treatment ofthe Emotions’, Oxford Studies in Ancient Philosophy,40: 189–211.
Striker, G., 1987, ‘Origins of the Concept of NaturalLaw’, Proceedings of the Boston Area Colloquium in AncientPhilosophy, 2: 79–94.
Inwood, B. and L. P. Gerson, 1997, Hellenistic Philosophy2nd ed. Indianapolis: Hackett Publishing. [IG]
Nussbaum, M., 1994, The Therapy of Desire, Princeton:Princeton University Press.
The inescapability of this sequence of causes leads to concerns aboutaction and moral responsibility. The first worry, which takes the formof the so-called “lazy argument” (Cicero, 55S) is that, ifall my actions and their consequences are predetermined, there is nopoint in acting at all: why call the doctor when ill, if it isdetermined that the doctor will come? The second worry is that if myactions come about by prior causes, they are not in my power and I amtherefore not truly responsible for them.
These three clauses are construed by the Stoics as providingindividually-necessary and jointly-sufficient conditions for animpression to be cognitive (Nawar 2014). Together, they are supposedto capture the feature(s) shared by all and only cognitiveimpressions, in virtue of which they serve as criteria of truth(Diogenes Laertius, 40A). However, their precise interpretationremains highly controversial.
With the distinction of “what signifies” and “whatis signified”, the Stoics introduce what is perhaps their mostcelebrated innovation in the philosophy of language: thelekta or “sayables”. What signifies is uttered orwritten language (words, sentences) in the form of air struck orsymbols in ink or in clay, and, as such, a body. What is signified, onthe other hand, is an incorporeal, namely a lekton. The termitself is notoriously difficult to translate: from the verblegein, “to speak” but also “toreason”, it is literally “what can be said” –and not all lekta are in fact said. Lekta aredefined as “that which subsists in accordance with a rationalimpression” (Sextus, 33B), and they form the contents ofrational impressions, concepts, and judgments.
Stojanović, P., 2019, ‘Zeno of Citium’s CausalTheory of Apprehensive Appearances’, AncientPhilosophy, 39(1): 151–174.
Hicks’ translation of Diogenes Laertius’ account of Stoic philosophy, in the Perseus Digital Library
Graver, M. and A. A. Long, 2015, Seneca: Letters on Ethics toLucilius, Chicago: University of Chicago Press. [Englishtranslation of all 124 extant letters]
–––, 2022, ‘Vagueness and KatalepticImpressions’, Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society(Supplement), 96(1): 165–183.
–––, 2016, ‘Necessity, Possibility and Determinismin Stoic Thought’, in M. Cresswel, E. Mares and A. Rini (eds.),Logical Modalities from Aristotle to Carnap: The Story ofNecessity, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,70–90.
In response to the former challenge, Chrysippus claimed that not allevents are independent of one another. Rather, some are co-fated: partof one and the same causal chain in such a way that they cannot bedissociated. The call to the doctor and the doctor’s coming areso joined, as is the patient’s healing. The doctor will not comeif she is not called, and the patient will not heal if the doctor doesnot come. Calling the doctor is thus not superfluous or pointless. Theconsequences of our actions may be predetermined, but only insofar asthey are caused by our actions. Our actions are thus not pointless: wemust act in order to ensure their consequences come about (see furthercritical discussion in Brennan 2005, ch. 16).
Support SEPSupport the SEPPDFs for SEP FriendsMake a DonationSEPIA for Libraries
Graver, M., 2002, Cicero on the Emotions: TusculanDisputations 3 and 4. Chicago: University of Chicageo Press.[English translation and notes]
Colish, M., 1985, The Stoic Tradition from Antiquity to theEarly Middle Ages, 2 volumes, Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Osler, M. J., 1991, Atoms, Pneuma and Tranquillity: Epicureanand Stoic themes in European Thought, Cambridge: CambridgeUniversity Press.
–––, 2012, ‘How to Give Someone Horns: Paradoxes ofPresupposition in Antiquity’, Logical Analysis and Historyof Philosophy, 15: 159–84.
They [the Stoics] say that passion is impulse which is excessive anddisobedient to the dictates of reason, or a movement of soul which isirrational and contrary to nature; and that all passions belong to thesoul’s commanding-faculty. (Stobaeus, 65A)
–––, 2004, ‘Justus Lipsius and the Revival ofStoicism in Late-Sixteenth-Century Europe’, in N. Brender and L.Krasnoff (eds.), New Essays on the History of Autonomy,Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 7–29.
The Stoics were interested in logical paradoxes and tackled a numberof them, including the Liar and the Sorites (Chrysippus, 37G; Cicero,37H; Plutarch, 37I). The evidence on the solutions they offered ispoor but suggests a great deal of thought and sophistication. On theLiar, see Cavini 1993 and Mignucci 1999. On the Sorites, see Bobzien2002 and Vogt 2022. On the so-called Horned One, see Bobzien 2012.(These logical paradoxes and the Stoic efforts to solve them shouldnot be confused with the “Stoic Paradoxes” discussed byCicero in his treatise of the same name; the latter refer to Stoicdoctrines in ethics running contrary to common opinion.)
The Stoics also contributed to questions about modality, following inthe footsteps, indirectly, of Aristotle and, more directly, of the Megarians. At the heart of their interest were issues of possibility andnecessity tied in part to their commitment to causal determinism.
Therefore, living in agreement with nature comes to be the end, whichis in accordance with the nature of oneself and that of the whole,engaging in no activity wont to be forbidden by the universal law,which is the right reason pervading everything and identical to Zeus,who is this director of the administration of existing things.(Diogenes Laertius, 63C)
–––, 1999, ‘Stoic Epistemology’, in K. Algra, etal. (eds.), The Cambridge History of Hellenistic Philosophy,Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 295–322.
Given this theory, the Stoics construe the skeptical practice ofglobal suspension of judgment as entailing apraxia, i.e.total inaction (cf. Plutarch, 69A). For further discussion of theapraxia charge, see Obdrzalek 2012 and the entries on Arcesilaus and Ancient Skepticism.
Hudson, H., 1990, ‘A Response to A. A. Long’s“The Stoics on World-Conflagration and EverlastingRecurrence”’, The Southern Journal of Philosophy,28: 149–58.
Much more could be said on this analogy. Detailed scholarly work onthe question of freedom and determinism in Stoicism can be found inBobzien 1998. See also Brennan 2005, ch. 14–15, Salles 2005, andthe entry on Ancient Theories of Freedom and Determinism.
According to Stoic psychological theory, the outcome of giving assent to the impression that p willbe either a doxastic commitment of a certain kind (knowledge,cognition, or the opinion that p; see 3.7 below) or a “rational impulse”. Impulse, in general, isthe psychological event responsible for action, and in rationalcreatures all impulses are “rational impulses” –“movements of thought towards something in the sphere ofaction” (Stobaeus, 53Q). Since assent is necessary andsufficient for any rational impulse to be created, the Stoics can beseen to endorse a strong form of “motivationalcognitivism”: all cases of human action require, and followupon, the agent forming the judgment that the action in question isappropriate for them to do (Klein 2015; Graver 2007; Inwood 1985).This account would seem to rule out the possibility of occurrentmental conflict, or akrasia, in the form of simultaneouslyconflicting impulses, since it is impossible for the rational mind asa whole to maintain, at one and the same time, conflicting judgments(acts of assent) about what is fitting to do. (Some Stoics seem tohave re-analyzed cases of putatively simultaneous akrasia asinstead a rapid oscillation between opposing practical judgments:Plutarch, 65G.) Stoic psychology and action theory can therefore beunderstood as a rejection of the Platonic-Aristotelian approach ofpositing non-rational sources of cognition and motivation in themature human soul, which can potentially oppose the dictates ofreason, in favor of a reversion to the monistic intellectualism ofSocrates. Like Socrates, the Stoics are committed to the claim thathuman action invariably reflects the assessment of the rational mindas a whole concerning what is appropriate to do in the scenario.
The so-called simple propositions can be combined to form complexpropositions, composed of multiple simple propositions joined by aconnective. The Stoics thus developed accounts of the truth-conditionsof the conjunction (“p and q”),disjunction (“p or q”), which theytreated as exclusive, and entered the lively ancient debate over thecorrect understanding of conditionals (“if p, thenq”). (For more on this, see the entry on Ancient Logic, section 5.2.) They also treated the negation as truth-functional and as negating awhole proposition (“it is not the case that p”:Alex. Aphr., in Ar. An. Pr. 402.12–19 = FDS 921), whichcould be applied to simple or complex propositions. The Stoic interestin non-simple propositions and their logical relations was sharedwith, and built upon work by, philosophers in the Dialectical School.
Long, A. A., 2002, Epictetus: A Stoic and Socratic Guide toLife, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Blank, D. L., 1982, Ancient Philosophy and Grammar: The Syntaxof Apollonius Dyscolus, Chico: Scholars Press.
–––, 1996, ‘Stoic Syllogistic’, OxfordStudies in Ancient Philosophy, 14: 133–92.
Bronowski, A., 2019, The Stoics on Lekta. All There Is toSay, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
–––, 2008, ‘Philo on Stoic Physics’, in F.Alesse (ed.), Philo of Alexandria and Post-AristotelianPhilosophy, Leiden: Brill, 121–140.
Castagnoli, L., 2010, ‘How Dialectical Was StoicDialectic?’, in A. Nightingale and D. Sedley (eds.), AncientModels of Mind: Studies in Human and Divine Rationality,Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 153–179.
Recall that, for the Stoics, the possession of knowledge dependssolely on the agent’s acts of assent, and all acts of assent arein the agent’s power (see above, 2.8 and 2.9). So if virtue is knowledge and both necessary and sufficient forhappiness, it follows that happiness will also be in the agent’spower and entirely up to them.
With the longer formulation, the Stoics underscore their commitment toa bolder thesis, that, in living with agreement with herself, thehappy agent is also living in agreement with nature and so with thecosmos as a whole:
von Prantl, C., 1855, Geschichte der Logik in Abendlande[History of Western Logic], Leipzig: Hirzel.
Helle, R., 2018, ‘Hierocles and the Stoic Theory ofBlending’, Phronesis, 63(1): 87–116.
Notice that all passions are impulses (hormai) of a certainkind, i.e. psychological events directly prefiguring action, which“belong to the soul’s commanding-faculty”. Thisimplies that all passions are “rational impulses”, in theStoic scheme (Stobaeus, 53Q), insofar as they are created through theexercise of the agent’s rational mind (his“commanding-faculty”), specifically, through an act ofassent (see 2.9 above). Passions are therefore “irrational” and“disobedient to the dictates of reason” not because theyarise in some part of the mind that lacks reason (like Plato’sspirit or appetite), for the Stoics deny that the human mind has anynon-rational parts. In what sense, then, do the passions disobey thedictates of reason and count as irrational?
The Greek Stoics were prolific in crafting arguments in support ofthis thesis, a number of which survive in our sources (e.g. Cicero,60N; see also Seneca, Moral Letters 82, 85, and 87). Amongother strategies, Chrysippus appealed to his account of human natureto show that only virtue is good, arguing that human nature is suchthat only the perfection of reason is genuinely beneficial to us (cf.Cicero, 64K and Brennan 2009; see also Klein 2016). In any event, theStoics fully embrace the conclusion that Aristotle considers too big abullet to bite (cf. Nic. Eth. 1.5, 1095b33–1096a2):they maintain that, even while being tortured on the rack, his bodymutilated and searing with pain, and isolated from all his family andfriends, the virtuous person is maximally happy (Cicero, DeFinibus 3.42). Indeed, according to the Stoics, he is equallyhappy as he was before the torture began, since at both times hepossesses the one thing that is really beneficial – virtue– despite having a different share of indifferents (physicalpain, health, etc.). Human happiness therefore does not come indegrees, on the Stoic view. Provided that the agent is virtuous (andregardless of how long she continues to possess virtue:Cicero, De Finibus 3.45–7), nothing external willdetract from or add to her personal flourishing.
The Stoics famously argue that the virtuous agent feels no passions(pathê) and, so, that the happy life is entirelypassion-free (apathês). To better understand thisstriking and notorious claim, let us examine how they define thepassions:
Annas, J., 1990, ‘Stoic Epistemology’, in S. Everson(ed.), Epistemology: Cambridge Companions to Ancient ThoughtI, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 184–203.
Betegh, G., 2003, ‘Cosmological Ethics in theTimaeus and Early Stoicism’, Oxford Studies inAncient Philosophy, 24: 273–302.
In a noteworthy break from both ordinary Greek usage and earlierphilosophical theories, the Stoics deny that all living things havesouls. Plants have tenor-pneuma and nature-pneumabut not soul, since they do not engage in perception orself-locomotion (Philo, 47P; Origen, 53A). Ensouled life is thereforedistinguished by the possession of the representational andmotivational faculties just mentioned: impression and impulse. Innarrowing the conception of the soul from a general principle of lifeto one that refers specifically to these more obviously mentalcharacteristics, the Stoics take an important step forward in thehistory of the philosophy of mind (on which see Annas 1992, Nawar2020, and the entry on Ancient Theories of Soul).
The Stoics provide an extensive taxonomy of lekta. They beginby dividing them into complete and incomplete. Incompletelekta include predicates, while complete lektaappear to be those usually expressed by syntactically completesentences and include wishes, commands, questions, and theall-important propositions (axiômata), which aretypically expressed by declarative sentences.
Ildefonse, F., 1997, La naissance de la grammaire dansl’antiquité grecque, Paris: Vrin.
Let us grant for the sake of argument that virtue and knowledge are inthe agent’s power. Even so, one might object that it isimpossible to be happy in the midst of grave misfortune and materialdeprivation: a terminally ill patient racked with pain, impoverishedfrom medical bills, and reviled by all of society cannot be happy,even if he is virtuous. This intuitive thought led Academic andPeripatetic philosophers working in the eudaimonist tradition to arguethat, while virtue is necessary for happiness, it is not sufficient,or to recognize different degrees of happiness and hold that, whilevirtue is necessary and sufficient for a minimal amount of happiness,it does not suffice for full or maximal happiness (cf. Cicero, DeFinibus 5.77; Seneca, Moral Letters 85.18–23). On theseviews, some things other than virtue and lying outside theagent’s power – i.e. his share of “externalgoods” – will make a difference to his happiness.
Gill, C., 2006, The Structured Self in Hellenistic and RomanThought, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Lallot, J., 1988, ‘Origines et développement de lathéorie des parties du discours en Grèce’,Langages, 92: 11–23.
Sedley, D. N., 1982, ‘The Criterion of StoicIdentity’, Phronesis, 27: 255–75.
Stoic ethics is eudaimonist in structure, in the sense that it positshappiness (eudaimonia) – a well-lived, flourishing life– as the rational agent’s ultimate practical goal or end(telos). Thus the Stoics characterize happiness as “theend, for the sake of which everything is done, but which is not itselfdone for the sake of anything” else (Stobaeus, 63A). This coreeudaimonist thesis is shared by the Epicureans, Peripatetics, andother philosophical schools contemporary with the Stoics, and isregarded as an uncontroversial starting-point for further ethicalreflection and theorizing (Annas 1993). Every human agent, it isassumed, wants nothing more than to live a flourishing, happy life andtherefore arranges their own projects and efforts according to whatthey think will accomplish this goal. Unfortunately, however, mosthuman beings are mistaken about what will in fact make them happy.Regardless of what they themselves might say about the value andsuccess of their lives, most humans, according to the Stoics, holdfalse opinions about what their happiness consists in, i.e. falseopinions about what is good. In the eudaimonist framework in whichStoic ethics is articulated, to claim that x is good (or agood) is to claim that x is a constituent or causal source ofhappiness. Stoic ethical theory therefore aims to provide an accountof what really is good and what really bringshappiness to a human being, so that we can guide our livesaccordingly. In this respect, the Stoics’ aims are continuouswith those of the Epicureans, Peripatetics, and other rival ethicalschools, but the eudaimonist philosophers of the Hellenistic and Romanperiods put forward different accounts of what human happinessgenuinely consists in, so that it became standard practice amongancient writers to distinguish each school by its view of “thehighest good” (summum bonum) and “the end”(telos / finis) (cf. the title of Cicero’streatise, De Finibus).
Stoic philosophy was, from Zeno onwards, conceived of as comprisingthree parts: physics (phusikê), logic(logikê), and ethics (êthikê).Each of these parts includes a wide array of further topics nowadaysdealt with separately. Logic, for example, includes not only formallogic, but also questions now typically falling under the remit ofphilosophy of language, epistemology, and philosophy of mind. Inaddition, all three parts of philosophy were thought by the Stoics towork together to form an interconnected and coherent system (exactlyhow strongly the claim of systematization is to be taken is disputed;see below). The Stoics emphasized this point with a number ofanalogies intended to illustrate how the three parts of philosophy fittogether and form a whole:
Lewis, E., 1995, ‘The Stoics on Identity andIndividuation’, Phronesis, 40: 89–108.
Over this remarkable span of time during which the Stoic schooloperated in some form or another, evolutions in views and shifts infocus unsurprisingly took place. The nature and extent of theseintra-school developments and disagreements – some of which wewill consider below – remains the subject of ongoing scholarlydebate.
Sluiter, I., 1990, Ancient Grammar in Context. Contributionsto the Study of Ancient Linguistic Thought, Amsterdam: VUUniversity Press.
Arguments themselves are composed of complex propositions, includingat least two premises and one conclusion (Diogenes Laertius,31Α). This definition of arguments made the Stoic system one ofwhat we might now call propositional logic, by contrast withAristotle’s logic of terms or predicate logic.
An important issue that straddles metaphysics and logic is that ofcausal determinism. The Stoics are determinists about causation, whoregard the present as fully determined by past events, but whononetheless want to preserve scope for moral responsibility bydefending a version of compatibilism.
Baltzly, Dirk, “Stoicism”,Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2022 Edition),Edward N. Zalta & Uri Nodelman (eds.), URL =. [This was the previous entry on this topic in the StanfordEncyclopedia of Philosophy – see the version history.]
Editor’s Note: The following new entry replaces the former entryon this topic by the previous author.
Bowen, A. and R. Todd, 2004, Cleomedes’ Lectures onAstronomy, Berkeley: University of California Press. [Atranslation of the Stoic Cleomedes’ work on astronomy, togetherwith introduction and commentary.]
Edelstein, L. and I. G. Kidd, 1972, Posidonius, 2 vols.Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. [Greek and Latin texts;introduction in English]
Barney, R., 2003, ‘A Puzzle in Stoic Ethics’,Oxford Studies in Ancient Philosophy, 24: 303–40.
Now consider two agents with different psychological profiles –for instance, one person who is a glutton for sweets and another whois not – both of whom are presented with a thick slice of carrotcake. That the glutton rushes towards the cake and eagerly gobbles itup, whereas the other agent does not (perhaps picking at it slowlyover a few hours), maps onto the cylinder’s rolling and thecone’s spinning. Both agents receive the same external stimulusfor action and form “impressions” (mental representations,phantasiai / visa) of the cake, but, like the pushin the case of the solids, these are not sufficient to cause thedifferential behavioral response in the two agents. Rather, it istheir individual psychological profiles and the activity of giving orwithholding mental “assent” to the impression that eatingthe cake is fitting to do which cause them to gobble the cake or not(more on impression, assent, and action in 2.9 below). One’s psychological profile is causally efficacious foraction, over and above the external stimulus. So among the antecedentcauses for human action – and by far the most decisive –is the agent himself, his individual nature or psychological profile,with the result that our actions are “up to us” or“in our power” in a way that is relevant for the notion ofresponsibility.
Cavini, W., 1993, ‘Chrysippus on Speaking Truly and theLiar’, in K. Döring and T. Ebert (eds.), Dialektikerund Stoiker: Zur Logik der Stoa und ihrer Vorläufer,Stuttgart: Franz Steiner Verlag, 85–109.
Ancient Grammar in Context. Contributionsto the Study of Ancient Linguistic Thought
Ju, A. E., 2009, ‘The Stoic Ontology of GeometricalLimits’, Phronesis, 54 (4–5): 371–389.
Stoicism was one of the dominant philosophical systems of theHellenistic period. The name derives from the porch (stoapoikilê) in the Agora at Athens decorated with muralpaintings, where the first generation of Stoic philosopherscongregated and lectured. The school of thought founded there longoutlived the physical Athenian porch and notably enjoyed continuedpopularity in the Roman period and beyond. This entry introduces themain doctrines and arguments of the three parts of Stoic philosophy– physics, logic, and ethics – emphasizing theirinterlocking structure. We also review the history of the school, theextant sources for Stoic doctrine, and the Stoics’ subsequentphilosophical influence.
Strange, S. and J. Zupko (eds.), 2004, Stoicism: Traditionsand Transformations, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
They compare philosophy to a living being, likening logic to bones andsinews, ethics to the fleshier parts, and physics to the soul. Theymake a further comparison to an egg: logic is the outside, ethics whatcomes next, and physics the innermost parts; or to a fertile field:the surrounding wall corresponds to logic, its fruit to ethics, andits land or trees to physics. (Diogenes Laertius, 26B; see our bibliography for a guide to citations in this entry)
–––, 2013, ‘From Plato to Priscian:Philosophy’s Legacy to Grammar’, in K. Allen (ed.),The Oxford Handbook of the History of Linguistics, Oxford:Oxford University Press, 282–339.
–––, 1999, ‘Hellenistic Physics andMetaphysics’, in K. Algra, et al. (eds.), The CambridgeHistory of Hellenistic Philosophy, Cambridge: CambridgeUniversity Press, 355–411.
Algra, K., and J. Barnes, J. Mansfeld and M. Schofield (eds.),1999, The Cambridge History of Hellenistic Philosophy,Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
The elements, especially fire, play a central role in the cosmogonyand the cosmogonic process (Hensley 2021, Salles 2015, Long 2008, Hahm1977). The Stoics hold that the cosmos goes through a cycle of endlessrecurrence with periods of conflagration, a state in which all isfire, and periods of cosmic order, with the world as we experience it(Nemesius, 52C). In between these periods, the generation of theelements occurs to create the cosmos in which all four elements exist.(This apparently orthodox Stoic view was rejected by some, notablyPanaetius (Van Staaten, fr. 65).)
5. Influence		5.1 On Grammatical Writers	5.2 On Christian Writers	5.3 On Renaissance and Early Modern Philosophy		5.4 On Contemporary Philosophy
–––, 2009, ‘Stoic Souls in Stoic Corpses’, inD. Frede and B. Reis (eds.), Body and Soul in AncientPhilosophy, Berlin: De Gruyter, 389–407.
–––, 2002, ‘Zeno’s Epistemology andPlato’s Theaetetus’, in T. Scaltsas and A. S.Mason (eds.), Zeno of Citium and His Legacy: The Philosophy ofZeno, Larnaca: Municipality of Larnaca, 115–30.
Grammar and Philosophy in Late Antiquity: AStudy of Priscian’s Sources
In sharp contrast with eudaimonist theories which regard health,wealth, reputation, etc. as “external goods”, the Stoicsmaintain that such items are neither good nor bad and, thus,“indifferent” (adiaphora /indifferentia) to human happiness. To establish thisconclusion, the Stoics do not rely on the claim that wealth, forinstance, sometimes benefits and sometimes harms theagent. Instead, the Stoic position is that wealth “neither doesbenefit nor harms”: in no case is a human life ever made betteror worse by the possession or deprivation of wealth (or health orreputation etc.). Just as what is hot necessarily provides heat, sotoo what is good necessarily provides benefit (cf. Sextus, 60G). TheStoics’ fundamental axiological thesis, then, is that onlyvirtue benefits a human being and makes our lives go well, so onlyvirtue is good.
While Stoic texts were not widely read or readily accessible in the19th and early 20th centuries, some of their views were presented inanthologies and historical surveys, such as Prantl’s 1855History of Western Logic, the first volume of which containsa lengthy chapter on Stoic logic. A recent study by S. Bobzien (2021)has suggested that the latter might have found its way to GottlobFrege, the 20th century philosopher credited by many with foundinganalytic philosophy. In this work, Bobzien produces evidence that someof Frege’s own work is derived from, and heavily indebted to,these Stoic texts.
In characterizing the ideal human agent as passion-free, what exactlyare the Stoics denying to her? One might suppose that this idealimplies the eradication of all emotional feelings whatsoever, but theStoic account of the virtuous person’s “goodfeelings” (eupatheiai) belies the caricature of theSage as an unfeeling robot (Diogenes Laertius, 65F). Whereas passionsare typically directed at indifferents incorrectly judged to be goodor bad, the Sage’s good feelings are emotional responses togenuine goods, i.e. to virtue, virtuous actions, and virtuous friends(see Graver 2007, ch. 2, and Cooper 2005). Moreover, at some point inthe school’s history, the Stoics introduced a category offeelings called “pre-emotions” (propatheiai),emotional reactions that occur without the intervention of assent andso able to be experienced by the Sage without compromising theknowledge in which her virtue consists (Gellius, 65Y; for discussion,see Graver 2007, ch. 4).
Christensen, J., 1962, An Essay on the Unity of StoicPhilosophy, Copenhagen: Munksgaard.
Denyer, N., 1999, ‘The Master Argument of Diodorus Cronus: ANear Miss’, Logical Analysis and History of Philosophy,2: 239–52.
Schwab, W., forthcoming, ‘Non-Perceptual KatalepticImpressions in Stoicism’, Journal of the History ofPhilosophy.
–––, 1994c, ‘The Stoic Conception of Reason’, inK. Boudouris (ed.), Hellenistic Philosophy, Athens:International Society for Greek Philosophy and Culture,50–63.
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is copyright © 2023 by The Metaphysics Research Lab, Department of Philosophy, Stanford University
Given the fundamental importance of knowledge, how can it be acquired?Attaining knowledge is exceedingly difficult, the Stoics concede– not even the leaders of the school claimed to have it –but, for all that, still humanly possible.
This sketch of Stoic eudaimonism allows us to better appreciate two oftheir most contentious ethical doctrines: (1) human happiness is fullyin our power and (2) virtue is the only good.
Christian writers were receptive to some elements of Stoicism. Thereexists an inauthentic correspondence between St Paul and Senecaincluded in the Apocrypha. This forgery is a very ancient one, sinceit was referred to in both Jerome (De Viris Illustribus 12)and Augustine (Epistle 153.4). But the fact that the letterswere not written by Paul or by Seneca does not mean that Paul wasunaware of Stoic philosophy, nor that his own thought may not beunderstood in relation to Stoic theory, cf. Engberg-Pedersen 2000. Thetradition of theories of natural law in ethics seems to stem directlyfrom Stoicism. (Compare Cicero, De Legibus 1.18 with laterwriters like Aquinas in Summa Theologica II, 2, q. 94.)Augustine chose to follow the Stoics rather than the Platonists (hisusual allies among the philosophers) on a number of points, includingon the question of animals’ membership in the moral community(City of God 1.20) and in his philosophy of language. Sorabji2000, part IV, argues that the Stoic idea of freedom from the passionswas adapted and transmuted into the idea of seven deadly sins byEvagrius. In general, see Colish 1985 for the presence of Stoicism inLatin writers through the sixth century.
Vogt, K. M., 2008, Law, Reason, and the Cosmic City: PoliticalPhilosophy in the Early Stoa, Oxford: Oxford UniversityPress.
Fundamental to Stoic physics and the explanations of natural phenomenait offers are the two principles (archai), the activeprinciple and the passive principle, which bear complex and oftendebated relations to pneuma, primary matter, the fourelements (air, water, fire, earth), and the cosmos as a whole. Theseterms appear to be used in different senses in the survivingfragmentary evidence, making the task of reconstructing a coherent andunified physical theory somewhat challenging.
Nickel, R., 2009, Stoa und Stoiker. Auswahl der Fragmente undZeugnisse, 2 vols. Dusseldorf: Artemis und Winkler
Arenson, K. (ed.), 2020, The Routledge Handbook of HellenisticPhilosophy, New York: Routledge.
–––, 2022, ‘The Starting-Points for Knowledge:Chrysippus on How to Acquire and Fortify Insecure Apprehension’,Phronesis, 67(1): 62–98.
Bailey, D. T. J., 2014, ‘The Structure of StoicMetaphysics’, Oxford Studies in Ancient Philosophy, 46:253–309.
For further details of Stoic cosmopolitanism, see Vogt 2008, Schofield1991, and the entries on Ancient Political Philosophy and Cosmopolitanism.
The Stoic school was founded around 300 BCE by Zeno of Citium, avoracious reader of Socratic dialogues, who also studied under theCynic Crates and was influenced by the teachings of Plato’sAcademy and the Megarian School. The Stoa competed with the schoolfounded only a little before in Athens by Epicurus, and Stoic andEpicurean views are often compared and contrasted. Zeno was succeededin the leadership of the Stoa first by Cleanthes of Assos and then byChrysippus of Soli, who headed the school from around 230 until 206BCE and was by all accounts its foremost theorist and systematizer.Following Chrysippus, the position of “scholarch” passedto his former students, the last of which being Diogenes of Babylon inthe middle of the 2nd century BCE.
de Harven, V., 2015, ‘How Nothing Can Be Something. TheStoic Theory of Void’, Ancient Philosophy, 35(2):405–429.
A syllogism is a valid argument (Diogenes Laertius, 36A), as is anyargument whose conclusion follows from the premises, that is, inChrysippean terms, if the (Chrysippean) conditional formed from itspremises as antecedent and its conclusion as consequent is true(Sextus, 72I; Diogenes Laertius, 36A). An argument is sound (literally“true”) if it is valid and its premises are true. For moreon the details on Stoic syllogistic, including a reconstruction of thethemata, see the entry on Ancient Logic sections 5.3–4 and Bobzien 1996.
Pomeroy, A., 1999, Arius Didymus: Epitome of StoicEthics, Atlanta: Society of Biblical Literature. [Greek text withfacing page translation and notes].
Miller, F. and B. Inwood (eds.), 2003, Hellenistic and EarlyModern Philosophy, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
–––, 1991, The Stoic Idea of the City,Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Stoic ontology is radically materialist or, more precisely,corporealist. According to the Stoics, only bodies exist, because onlybodies have the capacity to act or be acted upon (Cicero, 45A; Sextus,45B, Nemesius, 45C). This bold stance has wide-ranging implications:the soul is a body, as are its attributes, so that wisdom, too, forexample, is a body (see below, 2.9). This follows from the intricate make up of the world by principles (2.3).
–––, 2020, ‘The Stoic Theory of the Soul’, in K.Arenson (ed.), The Routledge Handbook of HellenisticPhilosophy, New York: Routledge, 148–159.
Sellars, J., 2006, Stoicism, Berkeley and Durham:University of California Press and Acumen, UK.
Obdrzalek, S., 2012, ‘From Skepticism to Paralysis: TheApraxia Argument in Cicero’s Academica’,Ancient Philosophy, 32(2): 369–392.
–––, 1984, ‘The Stoic Theory of Universals’,The Southern Journal of Philosophy, 23: 87–92.
4. Ethics		4.1 The Telos	4.2 Virtue	4.3 Indifferents	4.4 Deliberation	4.5 Stoic Cosmopolitanism	4.6 Oikeiôsis	4.7 Passions
Insofar as each passion follows upon the agent’s act of assent,it is amenable to a cognitivist analysis. According to the Stoics,each passion can be described as an opinion or judgment or weaksupposition (65B-D), whose content includes two elements, both ofwhich (in the standard case) are false: (i) an ascription of value toan object that is present or in prospect and (ii) an assessment that aparticular course of action is appropriate to perform in response(Graver 2007, ch. 2; Brennan 2005, ch. 7; Inwood 1985, ch. 5). Instandard cases, (i) is false because the passionate agent mistakessomething he currently possesses or expects to possess as either goodor bad, when really it is indifferent. So, for instance, the distressI feel in learning that I have heart disease involves my mind’sassent to the proposition that illness is both present and somethingbad – where “bad” carries the eudaimonistconnotation of being deleterious to my happiness (Cooper 1999b). Thisthought is false, of course: disease is dis-preferred, but not bad,and its presence makes no difference to my happiness. My case ofdistress, then, involves a cognitive failure, according to the Stoics:in suffering this passion, I have incorrectly evaluated illness andmisjudged its connection to my own personal flourishing. As part of mydistress, I may also experience anxious internal constricting andstart to weep, as a result of my mind’s assessment that suchactions are appropriate responses to my present illness (element (ii)above). On the Stoic view, this assessment is also false, for theseare not objectively appropriate reactions to the presence of somethingbad (cf. the more complicated Alcibiades case, discussed by Graver2007, ch. 9).
Cooper, J.M., 1999a, ‘Eudaimonism, the Appeal to Nature, and“Moral Duty” in Stoicism’, in his Reason andEmotion, Princeton: Princeton University Press,427–448.
Sorabji, R., 1990, ‘Perceptual Content in the Stoics’,Phronesis, 35(3): 307–314.
Luhtala, A., 2005, Grammar and Philosophy in Late Antiquity: AStudy of Priscian’s Sources, Amsterdam: John BenjaminsPublishing Company.
Scholars are divided on how exactly to understand Posidonius’reaction to the Chrysippean account of the passions. From the verbatimremarks and paraphrases in Galen (65K, M, P, Q), it seems clear thatPosidonius considered some elements of the Chrysippean accountinadequate, but whether Posidonius chose merely to emphasize differentaspects of that account, without substantially revising it, or insteadintended to modify some of its tenets, remains the subject of debate:see Lorenz 2011 and Cooper 1999b.
Dufour, R, 2004, Chrysippe. Oeuvre philosophique, 2 vols.Paris: Les Belles Lettres.
Inwood, B., 2018, Stoicism: A Very Short Introduction,Oxford: Oxford University Press.
It is particularly interesting that the incorporeals are said to“subsist” (huphistanai): the nature of thisontological status remains a puzzle. What, if anything, they depend onfor their subsistence is not clear. It is usually agreed that place,void, and time are mind independent, and many agree that this is alsothe case of lekta (Long 1971 is perhaps the strongestproponent of the alternative view that lekta aremind-dependent). It is in any case generally clear thatincorporeals together with bodies are in some way essential to themakeup of the universe, and that bodies and incorporeals share thestatus of being “something” (ti).
Stoic physical theory included topics traditionally covered by naturalphilosophy, and it is where the Stoics developed their ontology andmetaphysics. As is to be expected of their systematic approach tophilosophy, much of Stoic physics is fundamental in underpinning theirviews in ethics and also interacts with some of their logic andphilosophy of language.
Consider two differently shaped solids – a cylinder and a cone– both sitting atop the same steep slope. The two solids aregiven a push of equal strength and begin to tumble down the hill. Butwhereas the cylinder rolls in a straight path, the cone spins andveers off to the side. Neither of these movements could have occurredwithout the push, Chrysippus argues, but the particular way each solidmoves – whether it rolls or spins – is caused by its ownnature and “capacity for rolling”. The push thereforefunctions as an “auxiliary and proximate” antecedentcause, which on its own is sufficient for causing the solid to move,but not for causing it to roll rather than spin. Rather, it is theindividual nature of each solid that is so responsible. (Note that,given the push the solid receives, together with its own nature andcapacity for rolling, each solid could not do otherwise than move inthe way that it does.)
Hahm, D.E., 1977, The Origins of Stoic Cosmology,Columbus: Ohio State University Press.
Inwood, B. (ed.), 2003, The Cambridge Companion to theStoics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
–––, 2020, ‘The Physics of Pneuma in EarlyStoicism’, in S.M.P. Coughlin, D. Leith, and O. Lewis (eds.),The Concept of Pneuma after Aristotle, Berlin: Edition Topoi,171–201.
–––, 2007, Truth, etc: Six Lectures on AncientLogic, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
AboutEditorial InformationAbout the SEPEditorial BoardHow to Cite the SEPSpecial CharactersAdvanced ToolsContact
–––, 1983, ‘Stoics and Skeptics on Clear and DistinctImpressions’, reprinted in his 1987 Essays in AncientPhilosophy, Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press,151–76.
–––, 1994b, ‘The Stoic Notion of aLekton’, in S. Everson (ed.), Language: CambridgeCompanions to Ancient Thought 3, Cambridge: Cambridge UniversityPress, 109–128.
Schofield, M., 1984, ‘Ariston of Chios and the Unity ofVirtue’, Ancient Philosophy, 4(1): 83–96.
Engberg-Pedersen, T., 2000, Paul and the Stoics,Westminster: John Knox Press. [Specifically on the allegedcorrespondence between Paul and Seneca, see J. B. Lightfoot, TheLetters of Paul and Seneca, London: Macmillan, 1890, and AldoModa, ‘Seneca e il Cristianesimo’, Henoch, 5(1983): 93–109.]
[Chrysippus] resorts to his cylinder and cone: these cannot begin tomove without a push; but once that has happened, he holds that it isthereafter through their own nature that the cylinder rolls and thecone spins. ‘Hence’, he says, ‘just as the personwho pushed the cylinder gave it its beginning of motion but not itscapacity for rolling, likewise, although the impression encounteredwill print and, as it were, emblazon its appearance on the mind,assent will be in our power.’ (Cicero, 62C; see also Gellius,62D)
It is impossible to consider the philosophical contributions of theStoics without noting a significant exegetical challenge: the paucityof original texts. We do not possess a single complete work authoredby any of the first three heads of the Stoic school, Zeno, Cleanthes,and Chrysippus, despite their prolific output in antiquity.Chrysippus, for example, is reported to have written over 150 works,of which only fragments remain. Likewise, the treatises authored inthe Middle Stoa are no longer extant. The only complete works by Stoicphilosophers that survive are those by writers of Imperial times,Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius, as well as by lesser knownauthors such as Cornutus, Cleomedes, and Hierocles (discussed inInwood 2022). Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus focus to a significantdegree on ethics and only sparingly present the wide and extensivetheoretical bases of the system (for their views on logic, see Barnes1997). These later Stoics also had philosophical agendas of their own,so that their work might not always straightforwardly reflect theviews of their predecessors.
“Something” (ti) is described as the“supreme genus” (Seneca, 27A), broader than being, whichconstitutes “the all” (to pan). The Stoicsrecognize other entities to which they deny being, including fictionalentities and concepts or universals, which they place on a par witheach other as “figments of the mind” (Diogenes Laertius,32C). Universals, in particular, are famously said to bequasi-somethings (hosanei ti) or not-somethings(outina) (Diogenes Laertius, 32C; Stobaeus, 30A). This hasled to much debate and speculation as to the status of these entitiesand in particular where they stand relative to the class of“somethings”. For different views on the matter, seeBrunschwig 1988; Sedley 1984, 1999; Caston 1999; Sellars 2011; Bailey2014. The metaphysical status of limits is similarly debated: see Ju2009.
The existence of cognitive impressions makes cognition possible, andknowledge, the Stoics hold, is attained when all of one’s actsof assent amount to cognition: the Sage is distinguished from thenon-Sage in assenting exclusively to cognitive impressions.“Assent iff cognitive” therefore functions as a norm ofStoic epistemology and sketches a pathway to progress from ignoranceto knowledge. The Stoics assume that cognition, especially ofperceptual facts, is commonplace and regularly achieved by thenon-Sage, and so that on these occasions there is no great obstacle toobeying the norm. For instance, ordinary agents regularly entertainand accept the cognitive impression that “it is day” whenstanding in a sunny field at noon. But other cases present greaterchallenges, such that the non-Sage will assent to an impression thatfails to be cognitive and thus infect their mind with“opinion” (doxa) (Plutarch, 41E). By contrast,the Sage is entirely free of opinion, since she withholds assent onany impression that is non-cognitive (Stobaeus, 41G). (Scholarsdispute the status of opinion in Stoic epistemology, but on onewell-attested usage doxa is the label used specifically forthe non-Sage’s acts of assent to non-cognitive impressions; foran alternative view, on which opinion is identical to ignorance, seeMeinwald 2005 and Vogt 2012, ch. 7.)
Atherton, C., 1988, ‘Hand over Fist: The Failure of StoicRhetoric’, Classical Quarterly, 38(2):392–427.
One longstanding dispute concerns the meaning of “what is”as it features in clause (1): is it to be understoodexistentially or veridically? On the existentialinterpretation, “what is” refers to a being or realobject, so that clause (1) requires the cognitive impression to becaused by (“arise from”) an existing object in theexternal world. So construed, clause (1) rules out cases where animpression is formed solely through the activity of the mind (e.g. ina hallucinatory episode). However, this reading has been challenged onboth textual and philosophical grounds. Textually, the Greek phrasetranslated by Long and Sedley as “what is” does not use aform of “to be” (einai) but rather a different,technical expression: “to obtain” (huparchein).According to Stoic metaphysics (see above, 2.1), only bodies “are” or “exist”(einai), and so if clause (1) were intended to referspecifically to external objects (bodies), we would expect a form ofeinai, not huparchein. Philosophically, theexistential reading implies there are only cognitive impressions ofbodies. However, the Stoics acknowledge the possibility of cognitionconcerning incorporeal propositions, for instance, truths about thenature of the gods (Diogenes Laertius, 40P), and insofar as cognitionconsists in an assent to a cognitive impression, there should becognitive impressions of these true incorporeal propositions as well.(On this issue, see Schwab forthcoming, and the recent exchangebetween Vogt 2022 and Nawar 2022.) The veridical interpretation pointsto a resolution of both these difficulties. On this reading,“what is” picks out a true proposition, in line with theStoic claim that true propositions “obtain” rather than“exist” (cf. Sextus, 34D) and with further evidence inCicero (cf. 40I and Acad. 2.112). Thus clause (1) amounts toa veridicality requirement: all cognitive impressions must be true.Moreover, a veridical reading of clause (1) would also seem to allowfor the possibility that there are cognitive impressions of truepropositions, though this point is controversial: see Sedley 2002 andNawar 2014. For an effort to rehabilitate a version of the existentialreading, see Stojanović 2019 and Caston forthcoming.
Sellars, J., 2011, ‘Stoic Ontology and Plato’sSophist’, Bulletin of the Institute of ClassicalStudies, 54: 185–203.
The four elements, fire, air, water, and earth, are also importantentities to which the Stoics appeal in their physical theory. Sourcesoffer contradicting evidence as to the relationship of the elements toother bodies and notably to the two principles. Unlike the passiveprinciple, elements appear to have some qualities (fire, for example,is hot). Nonetheless, the elements also sometimes seem to constituteor make up the principles themselves. The active principle, forexample, is said to be made up of fire and air, while matter issometimes said to be made up of water and earth (Nemesius, 47D). Theactive principle is described as fiery (Galen, On the Habits ofthe Soul, 4.783) and the tensility of pneuma issometimes accounted for by the interaction of hot fire and cold airwhich rarefy and condense in turn, modifying the density of otherelements.
–––, 2011, A Free Will: Origins of the Notion in AncientThought, Berkeley: University of California Press.
Here it is useful to consider the Stoics’ three-fold distinctionbetween knowledge (epistêmê), cognition(katalêpsis), and ignorance (agnoia) (on whichChrysippus wrote four books, now lost; Diogenes Laertius, 7.201).Whereas knowledge is found only in the Sage, only the non-Sage isafflicted by ignorance (Stobaeus, 41G). Knowledge and ignorance arethus mutually exclusive conditions. This result also falls out of theStoic definition of ignorance, as “changeable and weakassent” (Stobaeus, 41G). The Stoics therefore divide humanagents into two sharply disjoint categories, the knowledgeable and theignorant, with the overwhelming majority of us falling into the lattercamp. To account for the move from a condition of ignorance to acondition of knowledge, Zeno introduces a mental state he callskatalêpsis (translated by Long and Sedley as“cognition” but elsewhere as “grasp” or“apprehension”; in non-technical contexts the Greek wordconnotes an act of seizing something with the hands).
Atoms, Pneuma and Tranquillity: Epicureanand Stoic themes in European Thought
–––, 1994a, ‘The Stoic Notion of a GrammaticalCase’, Bulletin of the Institute of Classical Studies,39: 13–24.
Emotion and Peace of Mind: from StoicAgitation to Christian Temptation
Although our Stoic sources record a number of further descriptions ofthe telos, some of which we will consider below, theformulation attributed in this passage to Cleanthes (and elsewhere toZeno himself, see Diogenes Laertius 63C) – “living inagreement with nature” – offers a convenient entry-pointinto the Stoic ethical system.
Stoicism became particularly fashionable in the Roman period. Althoughnever identifying as a Stoic himself, Cicero, who studied philosophy in Athens and endeavored to popularize it atRome, engaged extensively with Stoic theory in his philosophical worksand modeled his On Proper Functions (De Officiis) onPanaetius’ treatise of the same name. During the Imperial era,several prominent public figures were associated with the Stoicschool. Appointed to the court of Emperor Augustus in the late 1stcentury BCE was the Stoic philosopher Arius Didymus, and a generationlater Seneca served as advisor to Nero. Epictetus, a former slave, was expelled from Rome by Domitian along with otherphilosophers in 93 CE, and his works, recorded by his student Arrian,heavily influenced Marcus Aurelius, Roman Emperor from 161–180 CE. Also active in the secondcentury CE was the Stoic philosopher Hierocles, whose detailedtreatise on psychology and ethical theory, The Elements ofEthics, is partially extant (see Ramelli 2009).
How far do the demands of justice extend? To allhuman-beings, the Stoics insist (Plutarch, 67A; Cicero, 57F;Hierocles, 57G; Anonymous Commentary, 57H). In virtue of our sharedrationality, all human beings, together with Zeus, make up thecitizenry of one universal city or cosmopolis (Marcus Aurelius, 4.4;Arius Didymus, 67L). The just agent therefore looks beyond herimmediate physical proximity and conventional political community whendistributing indifferents and takes the interests of every human being– even the “most distant Mysian” (AnonymousCommentary, 57H) – into account.
–––, 2012, ‘How Unified is StoicismAnyway?’, in R. Kamtekar (ed.), Virtue and Happiness: Essaysin Honour of Julia Annas, Oxford: Oxford University Press,223–244.
–––, 2021, ‘The Stoic Appeal to Expertise: PlatonicEchoes in the Reply to Indistinguishability’, Apeiron,54(2): 129–159.
Verbeke, G., 1983, The Presence of Stoicism in MedievalThought, Washington, DC: Catholic University of America Press.
Chrysippus deploys this distinction among antecedent causes in thecourse of explaining how human actions are both causally determinedand subject to moral evaluation. Though the details are difficult, thegeneral strategy is clear enough and illuminated by the famouscylinder and cone analogy:
Durand, M., 2019, ‘What Does “This” Mean? Deixisand the Semantics of Demonstratives in Stoic Propositions’,Methodos 19. doi:10.4000/methodos.6023
The major debate over clause (2) turns on whether it serves tocharacterize the cognitive impression’s phenomenologicalcharacter, causal history, or both, and one’s stance on thisquestion affects one’s interpretation of clause (3) in turn.Both Cicero and Sextus report that clause (3) was added by Zeno to anearlier definition consisting just of clauses (1) and (2) (40D, E),and the grammar of clause (3) itself suggests it should be read as afurther elucidation of clause (2). According to what has come to becalled the “internalist” interpretation, clause (2)requires that the cognitive impression display a unique level ofclarity and phenomenological sharpness, which is lacking in any falseimpression (clause (3)) (Sedley 2002). By contrast, on the“externalist” reading, clause (2) stipulates that thecognitive impression is appropriately caused, i.e. “exactly inaccordance with” the fact it represents and not any other,without speaking to its phenomenological qualities: the causal linkbetween the cognitive impression and its object is “of such akind as” no false impression will possess (clause (3)) (Frede1983; for the viability of this interpretation, see the exchangebetween Perin 2005 and Shogry 2018). A “hybrid” view readsclauses (2) and (3) as stating that the cognitive impression enjoysmaximal phenomenological clarity because it is caused in theappropriate way, i.e. by the state-of-affairs it represents and noother (Nawar 2014; cf. Frede 1999).
To support their account of cosmopolitan justice and their fundamentalaxiological thesis that only virtue is good, the Stoics rely on theirdoctrine of oikeiôsis (“appropriation” or“affiliation”; the Greek term suggests a process wherebyobjects come to be recognized as oikeion – as“appropriate” or “affiliated” or“belonging” to the creature in question). This doctrinebegins with the observation that, straight from birth, every creatureseeks to preserve its own constitution, even when this is painful(Diogenes Laertius, 57A; Seneca, 57B): its own constitution is thusthe first thing each creature sees as oikeion to it and,hence, as an object of concern. This is because each animal is bornwith a capacity for self-perception, which enables it to detect, amongother things, what is appropriate or harmful to its constitution, anda capacity for impulse, which enables it to pursue or avoid objectsaccordingly (Hierocles, 57C). So, to use Seneca’s example, aturtle that has fallen on its back perceives that this situation isunfavorable to its constitution and forms an impulse to right itself.Moreover, the turtle does all this by nature, without having beentrained to do so, showing that non-rational creatures are set-up byprovidential nature to perceive what is needed for their ownteleological success and to act appropriately in pursuit of this goal.Newborn infants and children are no exception: as we saw above (2.9), humans are not born with reason but rather acquire it later in life,so that prior to maturing into adults we employ a non-rational souland pursue the objects appropriate for a constitution of this kind.The transition into adulthood comes when “reason supervenes asthe craftsman of impulse” (Diogenes Laertius, 57A), i.e., whenwe acquire a rational nature and begin to form “rationalimpulses” (Stobaeus, 53Q). The Stoics maintain that the rationalconstitution of a mature adult differs from that of a non-rationalchild (Seneca, 57B), and so too the things favorable to it.Furthermore, adding a social dimension to the theory ofoikeiôsis, the Stoics observe that humans, like membersof certain animal species (bees, ants, etc.), naturally cooperate withone another, and, in general, “it could not be consistent fornature both to desire the production of offspring and not to beconcerned that offspring should be loved” (Cicero, 57F).However, it is not exactly clear how these various observations aresupposed to offer support for the Stoics’ ethical commitments.Scholarly debate has focused on three main issues. First, how, if atall, are these apparently descriptive claims able to provide anynormative guidance? Second, how could a natural disposition towardself-preservation underwrite the other-regarding demands ofcosmopolitan justice? Third, in what ways, if any, is a non-rationalcreature’s pursuit of food, shelter, and other things favorableto their non-rational constitution analogous to the Sage’sattachment to virtue as the sole good? It is worth noting that one ofour main sources on oikeiôsis concludes with an accountof the ideal agent’s development, culminating in herappreciation that consistency [or agreement, homologia] andharmony of conduct is the only true source of benefit in a human life(Cicero, 59D). Magrin 2018 and Klein 2016 take up these issues withadmirable clarity and should be consulted for further details; theyalso provide an up-to-date bibliography on this wide-rangingtopic.
–––, 2019, ‘What Do Our Impressions Say? The StoicTheory of Perceptual Content and Belief Formation’,Apeiron, 52(1): 29–63.
Aside from the basic ontology, the Stoics identify four genera ofbeing usually referred to as “categories” (see especiallyMenn 1999): matter or substance (hupokeimenon), quality(poion), disposition (pôs echon), relativedisposition or relation (pros ti pôs echon). Substanceis a portion of passive principles or elements. An object so conceivedjust is a lump of matter (unlike prime matter, not entirelyundifferentiated insofar as it is a portion of it, distinct from someother portion). Quality, which is subdivided into common and proper isa portion of pneuma, organizing the matter so as to give itcertain properties. In particular, the portion of pneumaserves to unify the underlying matter or substance so as to make it aparticular object. This latter role is likely to be that of what isidentified as a proper quality, for example the quality of beingSocrates (on proper qualities, see Nawar 2017). Proper qualities playan important role in questions about identity and individuation (cf.Sedley 1982, Lewis 1995). Objects do not exclusively belong to one orthe other category. We can speak of an object as the underlyingsubstance (the hupokeimenon) or of a qualified object capableof bearing further qualities. Disposition and relations areparadigmatically properties of already qualified objects, so that thefist, for example, is said to be the hand disposed in a certain way(Sextus, 33P). Relations are properties which depend on the relata, sothat a change in the relata causes the relation to cease to exist, forexample “being on the right of”. The categories are put towork in various ways, including in ethics and psychology (seeAlexander, 29A and Seneca, 29B), e.g. in the claim that knowledge isthe commanding faculty disposed in a certain way (Sextus, 33P).
The relationship of language to lekta is the subject ofdebate, but it seems clear that lekta do not map neatly ontothe language that express them (Bobzien 2021). This is likely one ofthe roots of the Stoic interest in ambiguity (on which see Atherton1993). Nonetheless, the Stoics identified and classified differentparts of speech (proper noun, common noun, verb, conjunction, article,to which some add mesotês, which is usually taken to bethe participle, though it could be adverbs: Diogenes Laertius 33A,33M), each of which appear to express distinct signifieds. Verbs, forexample, typically express predicates(katêgorêmata, 33Μ; see detailed discussion inBobzien and Shogry 2020). Whether all parts of speech expresslekta is unclear. Nouns, for example, may signify the elusivecases (ptôseis), or qualities, or both (DiogenesLaertius 33A, 33M, 34K; see Frede 1994a, Gaskin 1997, Bronowski 2019,ch. 8–9).
Distress is one of four main types or genera of passion recognized bythe Stoics. Each type is distinguished by the character of itsintentional object: distress, a present perceived bad; fear, a futureperceived bad; appetite, a future perceived good; delight (orpleasure), a present perceived good. Appetite and fear are primary,with distress and delight secondary (Stobaeus, 65A). What is common inall four genera, however, is a cognitive mistake on the part of theagent concerning the value of the intentional object or concerning theappropriate behavioral response – an epistemic failure that isincompatible with living in agreement with nature. This is oneimportant upshot of Chrysippus’ runner analogy (in Galen, 65J).Just as a runner moves in such a way that he is “carriedaway” and cannot immediately come to a halt, so the passionateagent acts on impulses “going beyond the rationalproportion”, i.e. contrary to the right reason of Zeus (Inwood1985). However, some commentators see the runner analogy as gesturingat a sense in which, for Chrysippus, the passionate agent disobeys herown reason as well (Graver 2007, ch. 3). If so, then perhapsthe Chrysippean theory can recognize some form of occurrent mentalconflict after all, although the details of such an interpretationhave not yet been worked out.
Recall that the telos is standardly specified as“living in agreement with nature”. Chrysippus holds thatthis formulation is equivalent to “living in accordance withexperience of what happens by nature” (Diogenes Laertius, 63C).According to Diogenes of Babylon, the telos can also bedescribed as “reasoning well in the selection and dis-selectionof things in accordance with nature” (Stobaeus, 58K).Diogenes’ formulation suggests that the correctselection of indifferents makes a positive contribution tohuman happiness, even though their possession does not.Moreover, the Stoics think that a selection can be correct even ifZeus decides not to produce the indifferent that the agent pursues:like excellent dancing, virtuous selection of indifferents does notrequire the acquisition of any object external to the agent in orderto count as successful (Cicero, 64H). So, on the epistemicinterpretation, when the virtuous agent selects health over illness,she does not act for the sake of obtaining health, as if being healthyrather than sick would make a difference to her flourishing, butinstead because pursuing health on this occasion reflects her“experience of what happens by nature” and follows uponher best assessment of what conformity to Zeus’ providentialcosmic plan requires of her in this instance. (See Stobaeus 65Q, withdiscussion in Inwood 1985, ch. 5, and Brennan 2000, for the“reservations” included in the Sage’s selections ofindifferents.)
–––, 2012, Pursuits of Wisdom: Six Ways of Life inAncient Philosophy from Socrates to Plotinus, Princeton:Princeton University Press.
Whether “grammar” was properly speaking a subdiscipline ofStoic philosophy is debated, but it is generally agreed that Stoicphilosophy of language heavily influenced the works of AncientGrammarians. There had long been interest in the study of language,but the Stoics, and Chrysippus chief among them, with their systematicstudy of language, are considered by many to have laid the foundationsfor what became the independent discipline of technical grammar. TheStoic influence can be traced in various works, and Stoic views(sometimes attributed to “the philosophers”) areexplicitly discussed in Scholia, especially to Dionysius Thrax’sArt of Grammar. More notably, a debt to the Stoics isacknowledged by Apollonius Dyscolus, a highly influential secondcentury CE Greek grammarian, one of the earliest grammarians for whomwe have extant works. Stoic influences can similarly be found inPriscian, a Latin grammarian of the 6th century CE living inConstantinople, whose Institutiones Grammaticae, in partbased on Apollonius Dyscolus’ work, provided much of thefoundation for medieval grammar. The extent and exact nature of thisStoic influence on the grammatical tradition has, however, been thesubject of considerable debate. On the interactions of grammar andphilosophy, see Lallot 1988, Sluiter 1990, Ildefonse 1997, Swiggersand Wouters 2002, Atherton and Blank 2013; on the Stoics specifically,see Frede 1977, Atherton and Blank 2003; on Apollonius Dyscolus, Blank1982, 2000; and on Latin grammar and Priscian, Baratin 1989, Luhtala2005, Baratin et al. 2009, Ebbesen 2009.
For detailed information about the Old Stoa, we have to depend oneither later doxographies, including Diogenes Laertius’encyclopedia account in book 7 of his Lives of EminentPhilosophers, pseudo-Plutarch’s Philosophers’Opinions on Nature (Placita), and Stobaeus’Excerpts (Eclogae) – and their sources Aetius(circa 1st c. CE) and Arius Didymus (1st c. BCE–CE) – orother philosophers who discuss the Stoics for their own purposes.Nearly all of the latter group are hostile witnesses. Among them arethe Aristotelian commentator Alexander of Aphrodisias (late 2nd c. CE) who criticizes the Stoics in On Mixture andOn Fate and contrasts their views piecemeal with those ofAristotle in other works; the Platonist Plutarch (1st-2nd c. CE) who authored anti-Stoic tracts such as On StoicSelf-Contradictions and Against the Stoics on CommonConceptions; the medical writer Galen (2nd c. CE); the Pyrrhonian skeptic, Sextus Empiricus (2nd c. CE) who sharply criticizes most aspects of the Stoic system,and in so doing provides detailed reports of Stoic doctrine; theNeo-Platonist Plotinus (3rd c. CE); the Christian bishops Eusebius (3rd–4th c. CE),Nemesius (circa 400 CE); and the sixth-century Neo-Platonistcommentator, Simplicius. Another important source is Cicero (1st c. BCE). Though his own philosophical position derives from thatof his teacher Philo of Larissa and the New Academy, Cicero is not without sympathy for what he seesas the high moral tone of Stoicism. In his philosophical works –especially On Academic Skepticism, On the Nature of theGods, and On Moral Ends (De Finibus) – heprovides summaries in Latin, with critical discussion, of Stoic views.See also the entry on the Doxography of Ancient Philosophy.
–––, 1999, ‘Rules and Reasoning in StoicEthics’, in K. Ierodiakonou (ed.), Topics in StoicPhilosophy, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 95–127.
Translations of some of the works of the Roman Stoics are alsoavailable:Marcus Aurelius, Meditations Epictetus, Discourses and Enchiridion Seneca, Moral Letters
Graver, M., 2007, Stoicism and Emotion, Chicago:University of Chicago Press.
The surviving evidence so gathered allows readers to piece together apicture of the content and, in some cases, the development of Stoicdoctrine. In some areas, there is a fair bit of consensus about whatthe Stoics thought, and we can even attach names to particularinnovations. However, in other areas the interpretation of our meagerevidence is hotly contested.
In response to the concern about moral responsibility, Chrysippusbegins by distinguishing different types of causes. Although nothinghappens without an antecedent cause, he claims, not all antecedentcauses are sufficient for bringing about their effect (Plutarch, 55R):some antecedent causes – those which are called “auxiliaryand proximate” (Cicero, 62C) – function as merelynecessary conditions.
Brittain, C., 2002, ‘Non-Rational Perception in the Stoicsand Augustine,’ Oxford Studies in Ancient Philosophy,22: 253–308.
Bodies nonetheless do not exhaust their ontology. Although only bodiesexist, i.e. only bodies have being, the Stoics allow for entities witha lesser, or, at any rate, distinct, ontological status, that of“subsisting” (huphistanai). This is the case ofthe four incorporeals: time, place, void, and lekta. Ofthese, void is perhaps the most intuitively grasped: it is“incorporeal and intangible, neither has shape nor takes onshape, neither is acted upon in any respect nor acts, but is simplyable to receive body” (Cleomedes, 49C). Void is essential to theuniverse, not least because it surrounds it and allows for bodies tomove into it during the cyclical conflagrations (more on which below, 2.5; on void, see de Harven 2015). Place’s incorporeal status issimilarly justified insofar as it can be the receptor of body butlacks the power to act or be acted upon. Understanding the incorporealstatus of time is trickier (for a recent treatment, see Salles 2018).Some of what we might consider aspects of time are uncontroversiallybodies: day and night, or years, for example. We are also told thatthe past and the future subsist, while the present“obtains” or “is realized”(huparchein, a term which has been the subject of muchscholarly attention: see Goldschmidt 1972, Barnes 2007, p. 69, Bailey2014). One way of understanding the sense in which time is incorporealis by analogy with place, as the temporal intervals through whichbodies pass (cf. Sedley 1999, section 6). Lekta, the finalkind of incorporeal item, seem to stand out on this list. Usuallytranslated as “sayables” (from legein, “tosay”), they are roughly the sorts of things that can be said orexpressed by linguistic expressions and form the contents ofimpressions and thoughts. They are treated in more detail in thesection on logic (3.2), but they also play a role in causation (2.8), and their metaphysical status has been the subject of much debate.For a recent treatment of lekta, see Bronowski 2019; see alsoFrede 1994b.
Brunschwig, J., 1988, ‘La théorie stoïcienne dugenre suprême et l’ontologie platonicienne’,reprinted and translated into English in his 1994 Papers inHellenistic Philosophy, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,92–157.
The scope of the branch of philosophy the Stoics called“logic” (logikê) was wide, including notonly the analysis of argument forms and the development of a formalsystem of logic, but also rhetoric, grammar, epistemology, and what wemight now call philosophy of language, including extensive theories oflanguage and meaning. Stoic contributions to logic and philosophy oflanguage, as well as the backdrop of Aristotelian and Megarian viewsin the Hellenistic period, are thoroughly surveyed in Barnes, Bobzienand Mignucci 1999, and in an abbreviated version by Bobzien in Inwood2003.
Inwood, B., 1985, Ethics and Human Action in EarlyStoicism, Oxford: Clarendon.
–––, 2002, ‘Chrysippus and the Epistemic Theory ofVagueness’, Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society,102(1): 217–238.
Ramelli, I., 2009, Hierocles the Stoic: Elements of Ethics,Fragments and Excerpts, Atlanta: Society of Biblical Literature.[Greek text with facing page translation. Extensive notes.]
According to the Stoics, human beings are not born with reason butrather acquire it later in life (at age seven, according to Aetius,39E). In childhood, then, we utilize a non-rational soul, just likenon-rational animals, and thus form impulses without the interventionof assent. (On the development of rationality in humans, see Frede1994c.) Interestingly, the Stoics also distinguish between rationaland non-rational impressions, i.e. the impressions formed byrational and non-rational creatures (Diogenes Laertius, 39A). Exactlyhow rational impressions (phantasiai logikai) differ fromtheir non-rational counterparts remains the subject of livelyscholarly debate. It is broadly agreed, however, that only rationalimpressions are created under the direct influence of theperceiver’s concepts (ennoiai; cf. Galen, 53V), andthat only rational impressions express propositions(axiômata, one kind of sayable or lekton) (seeFrede 1983, 1994c; Brittain 2002; Shogry 2019; for alternative views,see Caston forthcoming, and Sorabji 1990).
The branch of logic is subdivided into rhetoric and dialectic(Diogenes Laertius, 31A). The former is described as “thescience [or knowledge, epistêmê] of speakingwell”, though it also included, for example, extensive study ofetymology (for more on rhetoric, and in particular how narrow itsscope might have been, see Atherton 1988). Dialectic is “thescience [or knowledge, epistêmê] of what is true,false, and neither” or “the science [or knowledge,epistêmê] of what signifies and what issignified” (Diogenes Laertius, 32C), mastery of which isrequired for wisdom, since “the Sage is always adialectician” (Diogenes Laertius, 31C; the “Sage”being the Stoic label for the ideal human being, i.e. the wise andvirtuous person). Dialectic as a field of study first sprung from thepractice of dialectic in the form of questions and answers but became,largely under the influence of Chrysippus, increasingly systematizedand more technical to include the in-depth study of language, meaning,arguments, and epistemology (cf. Gourinat 2000; Castagnoli 2010). Itis in fact in dialectic that we find most of the material thatinfluences the later so-called technical grammarians (on which seemore below, 5.1, cf. Atherton and Blank 2003). This goes hand in hand with thesystematicity of Stoic philosophy. The Stoics believed language to beinherently natural and to be such as to match the natural, rationalorder of things, so that language has a natural propensity to captureobjects in the world and its structure. The study of language indialectic is thus an integral part of Stoic philosophy as a whole.
–––, 2000, ‘The Organization of Grammar in AncientGreece’, in S. Auroux et al. (eds.), History of the LanguageSciences, Berlin: De Gruyter, 400–17.
Zeno represented the end as: ‘living in agreement’. Thisis living in accordance with one concordant reason, since those wholive in conflict are unhappy... Cleanthes, [Zeno’s] firstsuccessor, added ‘with nature’, and represented it asfollows: ‘the end is living in agreement with nature’.(Stobaeus, 63B)
Barnes, J., Bobzien, S., and Mignucci, M., 1999,‘Logic’, in K. Algra, et al. (eds.), The CambridgeHistory of Hellenistic Philosophy, Cambridge: CambridgeUniversity Press, 77–176.
The active and passive principles together make up the world andeverything in it. To achieve this, the active principle, which isidentified with God or Zeus (see 2.7 for further discussion of Stoic theology), acts on the passiveprinciple, which is also called (at least by Zeno) primary matter.Primary matter is eternal, unqualified, formless, and inert. Primarymatter is suffused throughout by the active principle in order tocreate objects in the world. The active and the passive principles inthis way both constitute the cosmos and all objects in it. The Stoicsstressed that they are entirely blended, or mixed “through andthrough” (Galen, 47H; Alexander of Aphrodisias, 48C), anddeveloped a theory of mixture which allowed for two bodies to be inthe same place at the same time (Hensley 2018; cf. Helle 2018 and2022).
Inwood, B., 2022. Later Stoicism, 155 BC to AD 200: AnIntroduction and Collection of Sources in Translation, Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.
–––, 2018, ‘Two Classic Problems in the Stoic Theoryof Time’, Oxford Studies in Ancient Philosophy, 55:133–184.
The late 16th and early 17th centuries saw efforts to form asystematic synthesis of Christianity and Stoicism. The most importantfigure in the Neo-Stoic movement was Justus Lipsius. The influence of the Hellenistic schools generally on early modernphilosophy is the theme of the essays collected in Miller and Inwood2003. See also Osler 1991 and Strange and Zupko 2004.
Perin, C., 2005, ‘Stoic Epistemology and the Limits ofExternalism’, Ancient Philosophy, 25(2):383–401.
Ierodiakonou, K., 1993, ‘The Stoic Division ofPhilosophy’, Phronesis, 38(1): 57–74.
Like virtue and happiness (see 4.2 below), knowledge does not come in degrees. One’s endorsementof p is either maximally stable and unable to be overturnedthrough rational means, or it is not, and virtue (as we will see) isitself analyzed as knowledge of what is good, bad, and neither (cf.Stobaeus, 61D, 61H). Since virtue is necessary and sufficient forhappiness (Diogenes Laertius, 61A), it follows that those lackingknowledge will not be happy.
The Stoics develop their epistemological theory as a sub-branch oflogic, but here, as in so many other cases, their conclusions lendsupport to, and draw on, doctrines in other parts of theirphilosophical system. Readers should familiarize themselves with the Stoic psychological theory presented above.
–––, 1997, ‘The Stoics on Cases, Predicates and theUnity of the Proposition’, Bulletin of the Institute ofClassical Studies (Supplement), 68: 91–108.
–––, 2003, ‘The School, from Zeno to AriusDidymus’, in B. Inwood (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to theStoics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 7–32.
Among ensouled creatures, some, such as mature human beings, possessreason (logos) and are called “rational”(logikos), while others, such as dogs or cows, do not and arecalled “non-rational” (alogos). What can therational soul do that the non-rational cannot? Arguably, the mostimportant difference is the power of assent (sunkatathesis).Assent is a faculty found only in the rational soul – inparticular, only in the ruling part or commanding faculty(hêgemonikon) of the rational soul (Aetius, 53H;Iamblichus, 53K) – which enables us to adopt a critical stancetowards our own impressions and pass judgment on them (Origen, 53A).Rational creatures give assent to the impression that p whenthey deem p to be true; otherwise, they suspend assent onp. (“Dissenting”, or taking p to befalse, seems to be more precisely analyzed by the Stoics as suspendingassent on p and then giving assent to not-p.)Rational creatures are morally and epistemically responsible for ouracts of assent, but not for the kinds of impressions we form: assentis “in our power” or “up to us” in a way thatreceiving an impression is not (cf. the cylinder and cone analogyabove, 2.8). For the Stoics, there is no exaggeration in the claim that what kindof person we are – whether we are virtuous or not, orknowledgeable or not – depends entirely on our acts of assent.The Stoic conception of assent is therefore of far-reachingimportance, both within their own system and for a properunderstanding of later philosophical debates (cataloged in Nawar 2020;see also Frede 2011).
What kind of body is the soul? As mentioned above (2.3), the Stoics identify the soul as pneuma at a certain degreeof tensility, more rarified than pneuma in the condition oftenor (hexis), which is responsible for the coherence ofsolid objects, and than pneuma in the condition of nature(phusis), which regulates vital activities such as nutritionand growth (Philo, 47P, Q). Pneuma in the condition of soulenables the animal to take in perceptual information from itssurroundings, by forming impressions (phantasiai), and tomove itself from place to place, by forming impulses (hormai)(Origen, 53A).
Hensley, I., 2018, ‘On the Separability and Inseparabilityof the Stoic Principles’, Journal of the History ofPhilosophy, 56(2): 187–214.
This page was last edited on 6 September 2022, at 20:04 (UTC).
Stoick the Vast, a fictional Viking character (chieftain and Haddock's father) in How To Train Your Dragon books and films
An adherent of Stoicism; one whose moral quality is associated with that school of philosophy
HMS Stoic (P231), an S class submarine of the Royal Navy in World War II
