"Lost In History": 50 Pictures That Shed A New Light On Our Past
Woman Is Upset That Neighbors’ Shed Is Too Big, Calls Inspector, Regrets It When They Maliciously Comply
Employee Maliciously Complies To Work Only His 8 1/2 Hours, Makes The Company Lose $85k Per Year
If 30 Famous Characters Were Kittens, Made By AI Dreams
Zori the degu Zori the degu Community Member •pointsposts comments upvotesFollowUnfollow
Error occurred when generating embed. Please check link and try again.
Hey Pandas, Post The Best Photographs You Took In February
30 Informative And Fun Food Charts For Anyone Trying To Eat Smarter
Couple's Plan To Outwit Another Passenger Before Takeoff Backfires As The Stranger Ends Up With A Whole Free Row In Return
Woman Wears Red Dress To Cousin's Wedding To Show That She Slept With The Groom First, But The Bride Outsmarts Her
There's a post after this that said something like: "okay who reported me?"
I'm seriously bothered by how the French are called cowards because of that one surrender in WW2 as far as I know, because if you look at their history, they fucking OWNED at wars.
Somehow, I think she is beyond embarrassment......but she certainly can carry a note or two. ;D
Get the latest inspiring stories via our awesome iOS app! Download Bored Panda app!
Employee Laughs In Boss' Face For Saying It's "Unethical" To Make Plans After Work, Takes The Case To The Director
Each Of My Mandalas Is Designed For A Particular Baby, And Here Are My Latest 38 Photographs From The Series: “The Kids Of The Sun”
106 Funny Wikipedia Edits Internet Vandals Snuck Into Wiki Articles
True, but it doesn't make reading the screen shots of their shenanigans any less funny.
Woman Buys Ex-Hoarder's Home With All Of Their Belongings, Spends 4 Years Cleaning When Relatives Start Demanding Heirlooms They Didn't Want
Now That...is a clear case of 'original thinking', lol. :D
Artists Tried To Imagine Celebrities In Professions Amusingly Appropriate To Their Names, Here Are 46 Of The Best Attempts
Paper Animals Designed By This Couple Require A Lot Of Work And Attention To Detail, Here Are Their Most Recent Creations (31 New Pics)
social media features, and analyze our traffic. You can read more about it and change your preferences here.
I Create Silly And Wholesome Illustrations With Short Quotes About Life, And They Feature My Rescue Cat Muffin (70 Pics)
"Lost In History": 50 Pictures That Might Change Your Perspective On The 20th Century (New Pics)
Woman Shows How "Harry Potter" Characters Were Supposed To Look According To Book Descriptions (35 Pics)
This is about as accurate of a description of the Caliph wanna-be I have seen yet.
Woman Flabbergasted At Thrift Store's Prices, Calls Them Out By Sharing 14 Examples
"Can't Approve Overtime? Ok": Employee Leaves Work During An Emergency Because Manager Wouldn't Approve His Overtime
Ugh. Reading this one made my brain hurt. Mission accomplished, Wikipedia prankster.
"He's A Douchebag": 50 People Share What Schoolmates-Turned-Celebrities Were Like Before Fame
I Discovered A Several-Hundred-Year-Old Abandoned Farmhouse In France (18 Pics)
Her name always bothers me: Solange means "as long as" in German.
I don't get this one? Is that not him? Looks like him to me.
The Best And Worst Transformations Seen During School Reunions, As Shared By These 30 Internet Users
Ethan Dreemurr Hồ Ethan Dreemurr Hồ Community Member •pointsposts comments upvotesFollowUnfollow
What Is The New Shadow: Tolkien’s Lord Of The Rings Sequel Story Explained
Šarūnė is a List Curator here at Bored Panda with a BA in Communication. Before BP, she traveled quite a bit and now could tell you some interesting stories about Alaskan black bears or how to survive +35°C while hiking in the Portuguese mountains. Later, she worked as a freelance copywriter for a travel agency until one day, she just became a bored panda. Now, Šarūnė can easily create a list of "30 Reasons Why Dogs Are Better Than Cats".
I Used AI To See What These 30 Popular Cartoon Characters Would Look Like In Real Life, And Here's The Result (New Pics)
This Online Group Is Dedicated To Things That Are Inexplicably Satisfying, Here Are 50 Of The Best Ones (New Pics)
To complete the subscription process, please click the link in the email we just sent you.
"You Are So Beaut-OHGOD!": 40 Hilarious Before-And-After Pictures, As Shared By These Women With A Sense Of Humor (New Pics)
5 Things You Didn’t Know About Dexter’s Michael C. Hall
So Help Me Todd Season 2 Needs to Treat Allison Better
Creating an account means you agree with Bored Panda's Terms of Service
50 Times People Were So Surprised With How Perfectly Things Lined Up, They Just Had To Document It
‘Old Photos In Real Life’: 35 Pics That Show How Much Time Affects Everything (New Pics)
European Is Shocked To Learn How American Suburbs Work, Goes Online To Ask Some Accurate Questions
Someone Asks "What Makes You Not Want To Have Kids?" And 30 People Deliver Sincere Answers
I read a biography about Janis, but it was never mentioned that she speed walked everywhere and was afraid of toilets. So good to know that she Speed walked and was afraid of toilets.
Created by potrace 1.15, written by Peter Selinger 2001-2017Svg Vector Icons : http://www.onlinewebfonts.com/iconReport
Bride Doesn't Include Wedding Dinner Price In Her Wedding Invites, Is Surprised To See Many Guests Canceling On Her After They Find Out
Hey Pandas, What's The Biggest Red Flag You've Ever Seen From Someone You Were Dating?
30 People Who Quit Their Jobs With Style (New Pics)
Dad Overhears A Conversation Between His New Wife And His Son, Cancels The Mother’s Day Celebration He’d Planned
Hey Pandas, Show Us A Photo Of Your Old Piece Of Tech Gear (Closed)
By submitting email you agree to get Bored Panda newsletter. We respect your privacy.
All About Photo Is Pleased To Present "Africa" By Laurent Baheux (20 Pics)
every actor and actress are fake activist! if they didn't have all that money they wouldn't be activist
I Create Comics About Everyday Life Situations That People Can Relate To (69 Pics)
Where I come from, people actually use this. "Ooh me nads!" --> an expression often used when a male's 'reproductive area' has been hurt.
Whiel some of these are quite funny, I think it should be stressed that they do not speak for the quality of Wikipedia in general. Wikipedia, by its nature as an encyclopedia is a secondary source, not to compete with primary sources, particularly not with those of scientific nature. Due to the collaborative effort it may well compete with journalistic sources, particularly if you are skeptical about what you read! I think it does a very good job in providing easy-to-understand background if you do not want to go the full way to read the primary sources, and it can be used to scrutinize media.
Please provide your email address and we will send your password shortly.
JEFF THE KILLER JEFF THE KILLER Community Member •pointsposts comments upvotesFollowUnfollow
"False Frugalities": 45 Examples Of People Trying To Save But Actually Losing Money
Whoever wrote this fails to realize that a 'time keeper' is the most important person in any band. Without a drummer, its like a gang of musicians just doing their own thing.
The directors and the producers had to probably think a lot before casting her...
30 Of The Most Spine-Chilling Things Kids Have Ever Said, As Shared In This Viral Twitter Thread
50 Frightening Pics That Make Us Want To Stay As Far Away From The Ocean As Possible (New Pics)
Guy Puts In His "Notice Of Immediate Resignation" After Boss Disregards Their Verbal Agreement, Warns Others To Always Write Things Down
88 Winning Pictures From The 2022 Travel Photographer Of The Year Awards
“I Felt So Shaken Up”: Woman Leaves Family Trip After Eavesdropping On Husband’s Conversation With Mother-In-Law
It can certainly be updated to Theresa May without any controversy. She is totally anti-democracy.
30 Y.O. Woman Takes DNA Test For Fun Only To Discover Her Long-Term Boyfriend Is Her Full Sibling
His phone wasn't working so he used a wik- Email woulda been easier!
"I Just Said Thank You And Left": Man’s Nice Gesture Is Praised After Pizza Hut Driver Got A $20 Tip On A $938 Order
50 Times Signs Were So Funny, People Had To Share Them On This Facebook Page
Hey Pandas, When Did Something Bad Have An Amazing Result? (Closed)
Luckily, these changes don't stay for long and are spotted by moderators before they even see the light of day. To illustrate how crazy some of these hijackings (or at least attempts) have been, Bored Panda has collected this list of funny Wikipedia edits caught on screenshots.
Ooops! Your image is too large, maximum file size is 8 MB.
We will not publish or share your email address in any way.
Storage Company Charges Client For Something That Never Existed, So She Pretends Like It Does And Now They Have To Find It
Your account is not active. We have sent an email to the address you provided with an activation link. Check your inbox, and click on the link to activate your account.
It’s Time For The Best Parenting Tweets Of The Month, And Here Are 35 That Might Crack You Up
Get the latest inspiring stories via our awesome iOS app!
With so much fake news floating around these days, it's difficult to know just who and what to believe. While Wikipedia is usually a reliable source of factual information, from time to time people hack Wiki and slip some alternative facts in there too. And since it's a free encyclopedia, created entirely by collaborators, it turns out that some of them have quite a knack for humor. From Charlie Sheen being half man, half cocaine to American Olympic swimmer Katie Ledecky being a humanoid evolution spawned in the bowels of Poseidon, you never can be too sure if what you're reading is 100% truth. So common sense comes in handy if you are preparing a paper according to Wikipedia's facts.
The Bored Panda iOS app is live! Fight boredom with iPhones and iPads here.
What am I going to do with my life now?:)
My 30 Hilarious Pig Comics That Offer A Glimpse Into The Quirks Of Asian Family Life
I am appalled that Lena Dunham's name was even MENTIONED in the same paragraph as such cute critters!!!
30 Of The Best ‘It Doesn’t Work Like That’ Tales Shared By Representatives Of Different Professions
50 Times People Had A Beautiful Tattoo Idea And It Got Executed Perfectly
No offence, sounds like u contributed to Wikipedia- meaning, I didn't understand half of that paragraph
so is he from maycomb county alabama where people have a tendency to start combing their hair in the middle of a conversation they're called maycombers
Every Michelle Yeoh Oscar Snub Before Everything Everywhere All At Once
“AITA? I Went On Vacation With My Friend And Her Family, They Kicked Me Out So I Got My Own Room And Stayed On”
Appointed by Barack Obama but became Trump's sock puppet.... Something's a little fishy
What happened to Tennessee? "Look hear, before you go over thar"
“I’m Not Coddling Her Anymore”: After Years Of Walking On Eggshells Around Her Childless Sister, This Mother Stands Up For Her Son
If this guy's some sort of con man, then that's probably the most fitting description I have ever read...😎😂
"An Entitled Mother Insists That I 'Share' My Nintendo Switch With Her Child On My Flight"
Clueless Director Calls For A Meeting Over Mass Resignation After Company Cancels WFH, Employee Explains It In A Way He Would Understand
"Never Come Back To My Restaurant": Chef Bans Rude Restaurant Patrons And Gives $1,350 Bill To 22 Y.O. Employee They Disrespected
Hey Pandas, What's Something You Do That People From Other Countries Find Weird?
Hey Pandas, What's A Historical Event That More People Should Be Aware Of?
Borrowed from Latin rīdiculus (“laughable, ridiculous”); Equivalent to ridicule +‎ -ous.
Greek: γελοίος (el) m (geloíos), αξιογέλαστος (el) m (axiogélastos)Ancient: γελοῖος (geloîos)
ridiculous in Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, G. & C. Merriam, 1913
ridiculous in The Century Dictionary, New York, N.Y.: The Century Co., 1911
(informal) astonishing, extreme, unbelievableIn a ridiculous feat of engineering, the team can calculate the difference in arrival time to within one-tenth of a nanosecond.Gaines is a classic motor player with a low center of gravity and ridiculous strength.
This page was last edited on 25 February 2023, at 10:29.
Polish: absurdalny (pl) m, niedorzeczny (pl) m, śmieszny (pl) m
deserving of ridicule; foolish, absurdSynonyms: silly, willy nilly, frivolous, goofy, funny, humorous, absurd, odd, surreal, unreasonable; see also Thesaurus:absurdAntonyms: straightforward, serious, somber, solemnThat hairstyle looks ridiculous.It's ridiculous to charge so much for a little souvenir.You make ridiculous statements a lot, like saying that UFOs are real.
1 English1.1 Alternative forms1.2 Etymology1.3 Pronunciation1.4 Adjective1.4.1 Derived terms1.4.2 Related terms1.4.3 Translations1.5 Further reading
Chinese:Mandarin: (laughable) 可笑 (zh) (kěxiào), (absurd) 荒謬／荒谬 (zh) (huāngmiù), (beyond belief) 荒唐 (zh) (huāngtáng)
Synonyms: silly, willy nilly, frivolous, goofy, funny, humorous, absurd, odd, surreal, unreasonable; see also Thesaurus:absurd

