Soundtrack albums																																							Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam																															Sonny with a Chance																															Camp Rock
Tours																																							Demi Lovato: Live in Concert																															A Special Night With Demi Lovato																															The Neon Lights Tour																															Demi World Tour																															Future Now Tour																															Tell Me You Love Me World Tour																															Holy Fvck Tour
Merchandise																																							Demi Lovato: Zombarazzie Adventure																															Demi Lovato: Path to Fame																															Devonne by Demi																															Secret Color																															Staying Strong: A Journal																															Staying Strong: 365 Days a Year
Charity work																																							The Lovato Treatment Scholarship Program																															Do Something																															Teens for Jeans																															Ryan Seacrest Foundation
Singles																																							Don't Forget																															Here We Go Again																															Skyscraper																															Heart Attack																															Cool For The Summer																															Sorry Not Sorry
Filmography																																														Roles																																							Sonny Munroe																															Mitchie Torres																															Rosie Gonzalez																															Smurfette																															Lenore																															Maia																															Dani																																																TV work																																							From Dusk Till Dawn																															Glee																															Sonny With a Chance																															Barney & Friends																															The X Factor																															As the Bell Rings																																																Film work																																							Camp Rock																															Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam																															Princess Protection Program																															Smurfs: The Lost Village																															Charming																																																Documentaries																																							Stay Strong																															Simply Complicated																															Dancing With The Devil
Film work																																							Camp Rock																															Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam																															Princess Protection Program																															Smurfs: The Lost Village																															Charming
Roles																																							Sonny Munroe																															Mitchie Torres																															Rosie Gonzalez																															Smurfette																															Lenore																															Maia																															Dani
The story is re-imagines of the tales of Cinderella, Snow White, and Sleeping Beauty after they discover they are all engaged to the same Prince Charming. Under the spell of a wicked Queen, Prince Charming, led by the heroine Lenore, must go on an epic journey to find his true, true love.
Covers																																							You Oughta Know																															Hello																															Ain't No Mountain High Enough																															Ain't No Way																															Take Me To Church																															Jumper
Family																																							Patrick Lovato																															Dallas Lovato																															Dianna De La Garza																															Madison De La Garza																															Eddie De La Garza
Studio Albums																																							Don't Forget																															Here We Go Again																															Unbroken																															Demi																															Confident																															Tell Me You Love Me																															Dancing With The Devil... The Art Of Starting Over																															Holy Fvck
On November 2015, it was announced that Lovato will be responsible for the executive production of the movie's soundtrack. Australian recording artist and songwriter Sia (who is also a member of the voice cast) wrote two songs 'Balladino' and 'Magical', performed by Furler and Lovato respectively. Also, Fall Out Boy frontman Patrick Stump penned a song named 'Trophy Boy', which will be sung by Lavigne, Tisdale, and G.E.M. .
Unreleased songs																																							Shadow																															Shut Up and Love Me																															Bad Chick																															Proof																															Too Much Love																															Somebody New
Explore																																														Main Page																																	Discuss																																	All Pages																																	Community																																	Interactive Maps																																	Recent Blog Posts
About																																														Demi Lovato																																							Career																															Personal Life																															Trivia																															Gallery																															Style																																																Family																																							Patrick Lovato																															Dallas Lovato																															Dianna De La Garza																															Madison De La Garza																															Eddie De La Garza																																																Pets																																							Bailey																															Batman																															Bella																															Buddy																															Cinderella																															Oliver																															Spawn																																																Magazines																																							Glamour																															Latina																															Allure																															Complex																															Cosmopolitan																																																Charity work																																							The Lovato Treatment Scholarship Program																															Do Something																															Teens for Jeans																															Ryan Seacrest Foundation																																																Merchandise																																							Demi Lovato: Zombarazzie Adventure																															Demi Lovato: Path to Fame																															Devonne by Demi																															Secret Color																															Staying Strong: A Journal																															Staying Strong: 365 Days a Year
Discography																																														Studio Albums																																							Don't Forget																															Here We Go Again																															Unbroken																															Demi																															Confident																															Tell Me You Love Me																															Dancing With The Devil... The Art Of Starting Over																															Holy Fvck																																																Singles																																							Don't Forget																															Here We Go Again																															Skyscraper																															Heart Attack																															Cool For The Summer																															Sorry Not Sorry																																																Soundtrack albums																																							Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam																															Sonny with a Chance																															Camp Rock																																																Tours																																							Demi Lovato: Live in Concert																															A Special Night With Demi Lovato																															The Neon Lights Tour																															Demi World Tour																															Future Now Tour																															Tell Me You Love Me World Tour																															Holy Fvck Tour																																																Covers																																							You Oughta Know																															Hello																															Ain't No Mountain High Enough																															Ain't No Way																															Take Me To Church																															Jumper																																																Unreleased songs																																							Shadow																															Shut Up and Love Me																															Bad Chick																															Proof																															Too Much Love																															Somebody New
TV work																																							From Dusk Till Dawn																															Glee																															Sonny With a Chance																															Barney & Friends																															The X Factor																															As the Bell Rings
Explore Wikidata by looking at a featured showcase item for author Douglas Adams (Q42).
Learn how you can retrieve and use data from Wikidata.
2022-12-28: Lexeme L800000, for the Nynorsk (Q25164) word 'fotballturnering', meaning 'football tournament', is created.
Talk and ask questions on the Project chat, Telegram groups, or the live IRC chatconnect.
2022-11-09: The Wikidata development team talk about what they've been working on in the office hours at 17:00 UTC on Telegram.
2022-12-31: Lexeme L900000, for the Bokmål (Q25167) word 'urolog', meaning 'urologist', is created.
Work with other volunteers on a subject that interests you: join a WikiProject.
Check out Wikidata:Tools for some of our best tools and gadgets for using and exploring Wikidata.
As the world combats the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,Wikidata has been extremely useful in collecting and modelling useful information related to COVID-19, from relevant research articles and clinical trials, to epidemiological statistics of various regions, to lexemes for words and phrases commonly associated with the pandemic, and much more. A lot of work from WikiProject COVID-19 goes into creating and maintaining these items, bolstering Wikidata's role as a helpful open resource in the pandemic.
This page was last edited on 22 January 2023, at 14:51.
the free knowledge base with 102,150,210 data items that anyone can edit.
Wikidata acts as central storage for the structured data of its Wikimedia sister projects including Wikipedia, Wikivoyage, Wiktionary, Wikisource, and others.
Wikipedia – Encyclopedia    Wiktionary – Dictionary and thesaurus    Wikibooks – Textbooks, manuals, and cookbooks    Wikinews – News    Wikiquote – Collection of quotations    Wikisource – Library    Wikiversity – Learning resources    Wikivoyage – Travel guides    Wikispecies – Directory of species    Wikimedia Commons – Media repository    Incubator – New language versions    Meta-Wiki – Wikimedia project coordination    MediaWiki – Software documentation
2023-01-26: Lexeme L1000000, for the Nynorsk (Q25164) word 'etymologi', meaning 'etymology', is created.
1616, Thomas Middleton, The WitchThey denied me often flour, barm and milk, / Goose-grease and tar, when I ne'er hurt their charmings, / Their brewlocks, nor their batches, nor forespoke / Any of their breedings.
In the abstract, Stuhlbarg’s twinkly-eyed sidekick suggests Joe Pesci in Lethal Weapon 2 by way of late-period Robin Williams with an alien twist, but Stuhlbarg makes a character that easily could have come across as precious into a surprisingly palatable, even charming man.
2012 May 24,Nathan Rabin,“Film: Reviews: Men In Black 3”, inThe Onion AV Club‎[1]:In the abstract, Stuhlbarg’s twinkly-eyed sidekick suggests Joe Pesci in Lethal Weapon 2 by way of late-period Robin Williams with an alien twist, but Stuhlbarg makes a character that easily could have come across as precious into a surprisingly palatable, even charming man.
The casting of a magical charm.1616, Thomas Middleton, The WitchThey denied me often flour, barm and milk, / Goose-grease and tar, when I ne'er hurt their charmings, / Their brewlocks, nor their batches, nor forespoke / Any of their breedings.
This page was last edited on 16 January 2023, at 22:05.
Delightful in a playful way which avoids responsibility or seriousness, as if attracting through a magical charm.Antonyms: silly, charmless
"What a charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. Darcy! There is nothing like dancing after all. I consider it as one of the first refinements of polished society."
2012 May 24,Nathan Rabin,“Film: Reviews: Men In Black 3”, inThe Onion AV Club‎[1]:
1 English1.1 Etymology1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Adjective1.3.1 Derived terms1.3.2 Translations1.4 Verb1.5 Noun1.5.1 Derived terms1.6 Anagrams
Pleasant, charismatic.Synonyms: charismatic, smart, wittyAntonyms: dull, charmless1813,Jane Austen,Pride and Prejudice, Chapter 6:"What a charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. Darcy! There is nothing like dancing after all. I consider it as one of the first refinements of polished society."2012 May 24,Nathan Rabin,“Film: Reviews: Men In Black 3”, inThe Onion AV Club‎[1]:In the abstract, Stuhlbarg’s twinkly-eyed sidekick suggests Joe Pesci in Lethal Weapon 2 by way of late-period Robin Williams with an alien twist, but Stuhlbarg makes a character that easily could have come across as precious into a surprisingly palatable, even charming man.
1813,Jane Austen,Pride and Prejudice, Chapter 6:"What a charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. Darcy! There is nothing like dancing after all. I consider it as one of the first refinements of polished society."
charming (comparative charminger or more charming, superlative (nonstandard) charmest or charmingest or most charming)
