Bizarre had guest star performers during its run including Steve Allen, Frances Bay, Redd Foxx, Luba Goy (who was concurrently with the Royal Canadian Air Farce, at that time primarily a radio troupe), Victoria Jackson, Murray Langston (as The Unknown Comic), Howie Mandel, Second City alumnus Dave Thomas, Willie Tyler & Lester, Marc Weiner, Henny Youngman and others.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Former 'Family Feud' host Richard Dawson dies". CNN. Retrieved 2018-11-15.
The "adult" version was also shown regionally on ITV in the United Kingdom, usually airing after 11 PM and with some of the more extreme language bleeped out conventionally.
Bizarre is a Canadian sketch comedy television series that aired from 1980 to 1986. The show was hosted by John Byner and produced by CTV at the CFTO's Glen Warren Studios in the Toronto suburb of Scarborough, Ontario for first-run airing in Canada on CTV and in the United States on the Showtime premium cable network.
DVDs of the unedited version, titled The Best of Bizarre Uncensored, were released in late 2005 from Canadian video label Visual Entertainment and are available to buy from Canadian and US retailers.Nine individual volumes have been released as of July 2007.
Two versions of the show were produced: episodes that aired on the Showtime cable network in the United States contained nudity and coarse language. The versions that aired on CTV (and later in syndication) had the nudity removed and the language bleeped by a horn-honking sound. Although the "adult" version is most closely associated with Showtime, it did go out on a few independent TV stations during the 1980s, playing as late-night fare, although the "clean" version is the one that was more commonly found in syndication. Current Canadian broadcast content regulations, which are more lenient than those of the 1980s, might permit the broadcast of the uncensored Showtime versions, but they have not been offered for broadcast syndication.
The "adult" version has not aired on television since the Showtime airings and original syndication ceased in the late 1980s. The syndicated episodes have been rebroadcast since then in Canada (at least as recently as 2003), where they were mostly scheduled to fulfill "Canadian Content" requirements.
^ Bushkin, Henry; Lewis, Andy (October 9, 2013). "How Johnny Carson Nearly Quit 'Tonight' and Scored TV's Richest Deal Ever". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved September 4, 2014.
The series utilized a rotating ensemble of supporting actors who backed Byner up in his sketches. Besides Einstein, this group included Philip Akin, Harvey Atkin, Billy Barty, Cynthia Belliveau, Jack Duffy, Jayne Eastwood, Barbara Hamilton, John Hemphill, Barry Flatman, Keith Knight, Don Lake, Kathleen Laskey, Kate Lynch, Pat Morita, Debra McGrath, Mike Myers, Earl Pennington, Melissa Steinberg, Billy Van, Steve Weston, and Wayne and Shuster alumnus Tom Harvey.
Sketches containing nudity were censored for Canadian television and syndication by the inclusion of reverse angle scenes originally filmed from behind nude actors (generally women baring their breasts) or else alternate scenes that had been filmed with the models wearing a bra. Rare scenes involving a woman being naked below the waist, however, just had the skits end very abruptly.
A regular feature of the show was Super Dave Osborne (a spoof of daredevils such as Evel Knievel), portrayed by Bob Einstein, in which Super Dave would perform elaborate mock stunts meant to enthrall viewers; a reporter (usually Mike Walden) would assist in framing the sketch. Inevitably, the stunt would fail spectacularly, resulting in severe injury to Super Dave. These sketches would usually finish with a view of the scene, in which Super Dave was buried, encased, launched etc., as appropriate for the sketch. Meanwhile, feigning agony, Super Dave would discuss sundry details – information about the next show, why the stunt failed, or what he'd do to the reporter once he recovered from his injuries.
Full Color Football: The History of the American Football League
The "adult" version has not aired on television since the Showtime airings and original syndication ceased in the late 1980s. The syndicated episodes have been rebroadcast since.
^ Facebook page of The Museum of Classic Chicago Television, October 25, 2015.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Bizarre" TV series – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Facebook page of The Museum of Classic Chicago Television, October 25, 2015.
Find sources: "Bizarre" TV series – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
One notable Super Dave sketch was a stunt where he attempted to avoid being harmed while standing under a pile driver, by repeating the nonsense phrase "balloon ball".The stunt failed in typical Super Dave style, leaving him as a helmeted head atop two shoes.This particular sketch was popular enough that during the following season, Showtime ads for Bizarre featured a cartoon logo of Super Dave's helmeted head and shoes.
This page was last edited on 9 January 2023, at 10:56 (UTC).
Bushkin, Henry; Lewis, Andy (October 9, 2013). "How Johnny Carson Nearly Quit 'Tonight' and Scored TV's Richest Deal Ever". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved September 4, 2014.
Full Color Football: The History of the American Football League (2009)
Bizarre was originally developed for ABC. In 1979, ABC was looking into re-entering the late night television field amid reports of Johnny Carson potentially leaving NBC's The Tonight Show due to a contract dispute. ABC made overtures to Carson and to Richard Dawson, then working for ABC as the host of their daytime game show Family Feud and also serving as Carson's regular guest host.[1] Carson eventually renewed with NBC.[2]
The series featured slapstick sketches, monologues, TV parodies, and performances by guest stand-up comics. Byner's interactions with members of the studio audience, or with show producer Bob Einstein (who often came in to halt a sketch midway through), provided an early example of removing the fourth wall. Much of the humour on the show was considered risqué during the original run of the series.
"How Johnny Carson Nearly Quit 'Tonight' and Scored TV's Richest Deal Ever"
While the episodes appear to be uncensored regarding language and nudity, most are missing their original end credits, which included plugs for the Royal York Hotel in Toronto and Tilden Rent-a-Car. The only episodes to retain their original end credits are ones where live-action sketches are still taking place while the credits roll, and most of those episodes have the sponsorship plugs removed, with the exception of episode 47 (on Volume Five), due to Super Dave Osborne commenting on the plugs. A generic "DVD credits" roll appears on each disc to give credit to the people who worked on the show.
Dawson taped the pilot for Bizarre at Television City Studios in Hollywood. The special aired on ABC March 20, 1979.[3] Ultimately, neither Dawson nor ABC decided to continue with the project (ABC instead went with Fridays and Nightline). Production moved to Canada (allowing the show to qualify for Canadian content credits, despite maintaining a mostly American cast) and impressionist John Byner was installed as host. The premiere of Bizarre used many of the same sketches as the Dawson pilot.
The Circus: Inside the Greatest Political Show on Earth (since 2016)
The Comedy Network aired Bizarre from 1997-2003.TV Land Canada, later known as Comedy Gold, aired Bizarre from New Year's Eve 2008 to August 2011.
The Super Dave sketches led to a spin-off series (Super Dave) with a more family-friendly style.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Former 'Family Feud' host Richard Dawson dies". CNN. Retrieved 2018-11-15.
Bizarre (rapper) (born 1976), an American rapper and member of hip hop group D12
Bizarre Foods with Andrew Zimmern, a television series airing on Travel Channel
This page was last edited on 26 July 2022, at 15:26 (UTC).
Characters																																														Protagonists																																							Jonathan Joestar																															Joseph Joestar																															Jotaro Kujo																															Josuke Higashikata																															Giorno Giovanna																															Jolyne Cujoh																															Johnny Joestar																															Josuke Higashikata (JJL)																															Jodio Joestar																																																Antagonists																																							Dio Brando																															Kars																															Yoshikage Kira																															Diavolo																															Enrico Pucci																															Funny Valentine																															Locacaca Organization																																																Allies																																							Robert E. O. Speedwagon																															Caesar A. Zeppeli																															Jean Pierre Polnareff																															Koichi Hirose																															Okuyasu Nijimura																															Bruno Bucciarati																															Ermes Costello																															Gyro Zeppeli																															Yasuho Hirose																															Dragona Joestar																																																Stands																																							Summary:																															Types																															List of Stands																															Unnamed Stands																															Novel Only Stands																																																Minor Characters																																	Unnamed Characters
The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel - Northern War
Novels																																							GioGio's Bizarre Adventure 2																															4th Another Day																															Jorge Joestar																															Purple Haze Feedback																															Over Heaven																															The Genesis of Universe
Jotaro Kujo was a seasoned Stand user and had saved the worldmultiple times with the help of his Stand, Star Platinum. However,he had a new challenge to face - drug abuse.
hello and Welcome to the first ever JJBA wiki ART THREAD. forthose who dont know me, my name is Babysharkboss2 or Jax and amtrans/bi. but this is not about me, this is about YOU. YOU ( and me) can post your art HERE. because for the first time it is truly aplace for artists. although of course …
Video Games																																							JoJo's Bizarre Adventure (SFC)																															Heritage for the Future (Arcade/DC/PS1)																															GioGio's Bizarre Adventure (PS2)																															Phantom Blood (PS2)																															All Star Battle (PS3)																															Eyes of Heaven (PS3/PS4)																															Last Survivor (Arcade)
Dungeon ni Deai wo Motomeru no wa Machigatteiru Darō ka IV: Fuka Shō - Yakusai-hen
One Piece • Hunter × Hunter • My Hero Academia • Black Clover • Jujutsu Kaisen • Mission: Yozakura Family • Undead Unluck • Mashle: Magic and Muscles • Me & Roboco • Burn the Witch • Sakamoto Days • The Elusive Samurai • Witch Watch • Blue Box • Akane-banashi • RuriDragon • Tokyo Demon Bride Story • Ginka & Glüna • The Ichinose Family's Deadly Sins • Cipher Academy • Ichigoki's Under Control!! • Fabricant 100
Anime																																							Episodes																															Phantom Blood & Battle Tendency (S1)																															Stardust Crusaders (S2)																															Diamond is Unbreakable (S3)																															Golden Wind (S4)																															Stone Ocean (S5)																															Stardust Crusaders (OVA)																															Blu-Ray/DVD Releases
Explore																																														Main Page																																	Discuss																																	All Pages																																	Community																																	Interactive Maps																																	Recent Blog Posts
Don't Toy with Me, Miss Nagatoro 2nd Attack Mini Anime
(ジョジョの奇妙な冒険 クレイジーの悪霊的失恋,JoJo no Kimyō na Bōken Kureijī Daiyamondo no Akuryō-teki Shitsuren))
Community																																														Policies																																							User Policy																															Administrators																															Page Layouts																															Manual of Style																															Image Guidelines																															Name Variants																															Trivia Guidelines																															Vandalism																															Appeal a Block																																																Forum																																							News and Announcements																															Questions and Answers																															Fanmade																															General Discussion																															Anime/Game Discussion																															Manga Discussion																															Articles Discussion																															Sandbox																															Old Forum Archives
One-Shots																																							Thus Spoke Kishibe Rohan																															Under Execution Under Jailbreak																															Dead Man's Questions																															Dolce and His Master																															Rohan at the Louvre																															Rohan Kishibe Goes to Gucci																															Jolyne, Fly High with GUCCI
JoJo's Bizarre Adventure, often shortened to JoJo or JJBA, is a shōnen and seinen manga. It follows the journeys of the Joestar family members across generations.Our goal is to create a reference for all official material related to this ongoing series.Anyone can edit, so any help in doing so is greatly appreciated!
The Fruit of Evolution: Before I Knew It, My Life Had It Made Season 2
Policies																																							User Policy																															Administrators																															Page Layouts																															Manual of Style																															Image Guidelines																															Name Variants																															Trivia Guidelines																															Vandalism																															Appeal a Block
Feel free to assess our List of articles that need support, not forgetting our skim-able Manual of Style!
Shueisha																																							Hirohiko Araki																															Lucky Land Communications																															Weekly Shonen Jump																															Ultra Jump																															VIZ Media
Forum																																							News and Announcements																															Questions and Answers																															Fanmade																															General Discussion																															Anime/Game Discussion																															Manga Discussion																															Articles Discussion																															Sandbox																															Old Forum Archives
Artbooks																																							JoJo 6251																															JOJO A-GO!GO!																															JOJOVELLER																															JOJOmenon																															HIROHIKO ARAKI WORKS
Help us with adding quotes and color schemes for characters using the templates in Useful Templates.
Maō Gakuin no Futekigōsha: Shijō Saikyō no Maō no Shiso, Tensei shite Shison-tachi no Gakkō e Kayō II
All • Action • Adventure • Comedy • Drama • Fantasy • Horror • Mecha • Mystery • Romance • Sci-fi • Slice of Life • Sports • Supernatural • Memes • Funimation
Media																																														Anime																																							Episodes																															Phantom Blood & Battle Tendency (S1)																															Stardust Crusaders (S2)																															Diamond is Unbreakable (S3)																															Golden Wind (S4)																															Stone Ocean (S5)																															Stardust Crusaders (OVA)																															Blu-Ray/DVD Releases																																																Video Games																																							JoJo's Bizarre Adventure (SFC)																															Heritage for the Future (Arcade/DC/PS1)																															GioGio's Bizarre Adventure (PS2)																															Phantom Blood (PS2)																															All Star Battle (PS3)																															Eyes of Heaven (PS3/PS4)																															Last Survivor (Arcade)																																																Novels																																							GioGio's Bizarre Adventure 2																															4th Another Day																															Jorge Joestar																															Purple Haze Feedback																															Over Heaven																															The Genesis of Universe																																																Music																																	Merchandise																																	References																																							Interview Archive																															Cultural Impact																															Influences on JoJo
Allies																																							Robert E. O. Speedwagon																															Caesar A. Zeppeli																															Jean Pierre Polnareff																															Koichi Hirose																															Okuyasu Nijimura																															Bruno Bucciarati																															Ermes Costello																															Gyro Zeppeli																															Yasuho Hirose																															Dragona Joestar
Stands																																							Summary:																															Types																															List of Stands																															Unnamed Stands																															Novel Only Stands
Welcome to JoJo's Bizarre Wiki,a fan Wiki dedicated to JoJo's Bizarre Adventurewritten and illustrated by Hirohiko Araki.
Manga																																														Chapter List																																							List of Volumes																															English Volumes																															French Volumes																															JoJonium																															Bunko Edition																															Author's Note																																																Parts																																							Phantom Blood																															Battle Tendency																															Stardust Crusaders																															Diamond is Unbreakable																															Vento Aureo																															Stone Ocean																															Steel Ball Run																															JoJolion																															The JOJOLands																																																One-Shots																																							Thus Spoke Kishibe Rohan																															Under Execution Under Jailbreak																															Dead Man's Questions																															Dolce and His Master																															Rohan at the Louvre																															Rohan Kishibe Goes to Gucci																															Jolyne, Fly High with GUCCI																																																Artbooks																																							JoJo 6251																															JOJO A-GO!GO!																															JOJOVELLER																															JOJOmenon																															HIROHIKO ARAKI WORKS																																																Shueisha																																							Hirohiko Araki																															Lucky Land Communications																															Weekly Shonen Jump																															Ultra Jump																															VIZ Media																																																Story Arcs
Protagonists																																							Jonathan Joestar																															Joseph Joestar																															Jotaro Kujo																															Josuke Higashikata																															Giorno Giovanna																															Jolyne Cujoh																															Johnny Joestar																															Josuke Higashikata (JJL)																															Jodio Joestar
The Magical Revolution of the Reincarnated Princess and the Genius Young Lady
Itai no wa Iya nano de Bōgyoryoku ni Kyokufuri Shitai to Omoimasu. Season 2
Ningen Fushin: Adventurers Who Don`t Believe in Humanity Will Save the World
Detective Conan: Haibara Ai Monogatari - Kurogane no Mystery Train
Parts																																							Phantom Blood																															Battle Tendency																															Stardust Crusaders																															Diamond is Unbreakable																															Vento Aureo																															Stone Ocean																															Steel Ball Run																															JoJolion																															The JOJOLands
Chapter List																																							List of Volumes																															English Volumes																															French Volumes																															JoJonium																															Bunko Edition																															Author's Note
Fifth season and sixth installment of the JoJo's Bizarre Adventure TV Anime.
Proofread articles by fixing any typos or grammatical errors that you find!
Jotaro received a call from a worried mother whose son was adrug addict. The mother pleaded with Jotaro to help her son, who…
Antagonists																																							Dio Brando																															Kars																															Yoshikage Kira																															Diavolo																															Enrico Pucci																															Funny Valentine																															Locacaca Organization
If you would like to become an affiliate, please contact the administrators
Reborn to Master the Blade: From Hero-King to Extraordinary Squire ♀
