This page was last edited on 23 February 2023, at 09:01 (UTC).
To save Newton's law of universal gravitation, Immanuel Kant reasoned that the mind is the precondition of experience and so, as the bridge from the noumena, which are how the world's things exist in themselves, to the phenomena, which are humans' recognized experiences.And so mind itself contains the structure that determines space, time, and substance, how mind's own categorization of noumena renders space Euclidean, time constant, and objects' motions exhibiting the very determinism predicted by Newtonian physics.Kant apparently presumed that the human mind, rather than a phenomenon itself that had evolved, had been predetermined and set forth upon the formation of humankind. In any event, the mind also was the veil of appearance that scientific methods could never lift.And yet the mind could ponder itself and discover such truths, although not on a theoretical level, but only by means of ethics. Kant's metaphysics, then, transcendental idealism, secured science from doubt—in that it was a case of "synthetic a priori" knowledge ("universal, necessary and informative")—and yet discarded hope of scientific realism.
Wikipedia articles that may have off-topic sections from May 2021
In the philosophy of mind, instrumentalism is the view that propositional attitudes like beliefs are not actually concepts on which we can base scientific investigations of mind and brain, but that acting as if other beings have beliefs is a successful strategy.
Deutsch, David, 1953- (1997). The fabric of reality : the science of parallel universes-- and its implications (First American ed.). New York, New York. ISBN 0-7139-9061-9. OCLC 36393434.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Samir Okasha, Philosophy of Science: A Very Short Introduction (New York: Oxford University Press, 2002), p. 62: "Strictly we should distinguish two sorts of anti-realism.According to the first sort, talk of unobservable entities is not to be understood literally at all.So when a scientist pus forward a theory about electrons, for example, we should not take him to be asserting the existence of entities called 'electrons'.Rather, his talk of electrons is metaphorical.This form of anti-realism was popular in the first half of the 20th century, but few people advocate it today.It was motivated largely by a doctrine in the philosophy of language, according to which it is not possible to make meaningful assertions about things that cannot in principle be observed, a doctrine that few contemporary philosophers accept.The second sort of anti-realism accepts that talk of unobservable entities should be taken at face value: if a theory says that electrons are negatively charged, it is true if electrons do exist and are negatively charged, but false otherwise.But we will never know which, says the anti-realist.So the correct attitude towards the claims that scientists make about unobservable reality is one of total agnosticism.They are either true or false, but we are incapable of finding out which.Most modern anti-realism is of this second sort".
Meinard Kuhlmann, "Physicists debate whether the world is made of particles or fields—or something else entirely, Scientific American, 2013 Aug;309(2).
^ Torretti 1999 p. 98: "I shall dwell at some length on Kant's conception of the sources and scope of Newton's conceptual frame, for it was the first full-blown philosophy of physics and remains to this day the most significant".
^ a b c Roberto Torretti, The Philosophy of Physics (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999), pp. 396–97, including quote: "First, quantum field theories have been the working theories at the frontline of physics for over 30 years.Second, these theories appear to do away with the familiar conception of physical systems as aggregates of substantive individual particles.This conception was already undermined by Bose–Einstein and Fermi–Dirac statistics (§6.1.4), according to which the so-called particles cannot be assigned a definite trajectory in ordinary space.But quantum field theories go a long step further and—or so it would seem—conceive 'particles' as excitation modes of the field.This, I presume, motivated Howard Stein's saying that 'the quantum theory of fields is the contemporary locus of metaphysical research' (1970, p. 285).Finally, the very fact that physicists conspicuously and fruitfully resort to unperspicacious theories can teach us something about the aim and reach of science.Here is how physicists work, dirty-handed, in their everyday practice, a far cry from what is taught at the Sunday school of the 'scientific worldview' ".
^ Karl R Popper, Conjectures and Refutations: The Growth of Scientific Knowledge (London: Routledge, 2003 [1963]), ISBN 0-415-28594-1, quote: "Instrumentalism can be formulated as the thesis that scientific theories—the theories of the so-called 'pure' sciences—are nothing but computational rules (or inference rules); of the same character, fundamentally, as the computation rules of the so-called 'applied' sciences. (One might even formulate it as the thesis that "pure" science is a misnomer, and that all science is 'applied'.)Now my reply to instrumentalism consists in showing that there are profound differences between "pure" theories and technological computation rules, and that instrumentalism can give a perfect description of these rules but is quite unable to account for the difference between them and the theories".
Since the mind has virtually no power to know anything beyond direct sensory experience, Ernst Mach's early version of logical positivism (empirio-criticism) verged on idealism.It was alleged to even be a surreptitious solipsism, whereby all that exists is one's own mind.Mach's positivism also strongly asserted the ultimate unity of the empirical sciences.Mach's positivism asserted phenomenalism as to new basis of scientific theory, all scientific terms to refer to either actual or potential sensations, thus eliminating hypotheses while permitting such seemingly disparate scientific theories as physical and psychological to share terms and forms.Phenomenalism was insuperably difficult to implement, yet heavily influenced a new generation of philosophers of science, who emerged in the 1920s while terming themselves logical positivists while pursuing a program termed verificationism.Logical positivists aimed not to instruct or restrict scientists, but to enlighten and structure philosophical discourse to render scientific philosophy that would verify philosophical statements as well as scientific theories, and align all human knowledge into a scientific worldview, freeing humankind from so many of its problems due to confused or unclear language.
van Fraassen, Bas C., 1980, The Scientific Image, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
^ van Fraassen, Bas C., 1980, The Scientific Image, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
In philosophy of science and in epistemology, instrumentalism is a methodological view that ideas are useful instruments, and that the worth of an idea is based on how effective it is in explaining and predicting phenomena.According to instrumentalists, a successful scientific theory reveals nothing known either true or false about nature's unobservable objects, properties or processes.[1] Scientific theory is merely a tool whereby humans predict observations in a particular domain of nature by formulating laws, which state or summarize regularities, while theories themselves do not reveal supposedly hidden aspects of nature that somehow explain these laws.[2]Instrumentalism is a perspective originally introduced by Pierre Duhem in 1906.[2]
Newton's theory of motion, whereby any object instantly interacts with all other objects across the universe, motivated the founder of British empiricism, John Locke, to speculate that matter is capable of thought.[6]The next leading British empiricist, George Berkeley, argued that an object's putative primary qualities as recognized by scientists, such as shape, extension, and impenetrability, are inconceivable without the putative secondary qualities of color, hardness, warmth, and so on. He also posed the question how or why an object could be properly conceived to exist independently of any perception of it.[7]Berkeley did not object to everyday talk about the reality of objects, but instead took issue with philosophers' talk, who spoke as if they knew something beyond sensory impressions that ordinary folk did not.[8]
Roberto Torretti, The Philosophy of Physics (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999), pp. 396–97, including quote: "First, quantum field theories have been the working theories at the frontline of physics for over 30 years.Second, these theories appear to do away with the familiar conception of physical systems as aggregates of substantive individual particles.This conception was already undermined by Bose–Einstein and Fermi–Dirac statistics (§6.1.4), according to which the so-called particles cannot be assigned a definite trajectory in ordinary space.But quantum field theories go a long step further and—or so it would seem—conceive 'particles' as excitation modes of the field.This, I presume, motivated Howard Stein's saying that 'the quantum theory of fields is the contemporary locus of metaphysical research' (1970, p. 285).Finally, the very fact that physicists conspicuously and fruitfully resort to unperspicacious theories can teach us something about the aim and reach of science.Here is how physicists work, dirty-handed, in their everyday practice, a far cry from what is taught at the Sunday school of the 'scientific worldview' ".
One scientific realist, Karl Popper, rejected all variants of positivism via its focus on sensations rather than realism, and developed critical rationalism instead. Popper alleged that instrumentalism reduces basic science to what is merely applied science.[11] The British physicist David Deutsch, in his much later 1997 book The Fabric of Reality, followed Popper's critique of instrumentalism and argued that a scientific theory stripped of its explanatory content would be of strictly limited utility.[12]
^ *Anjan Chakravartty, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Chakravartty, Anjan (April 27, 2011). "Scientific Realism". Retrieved August 13, 2019 – via plato.stanford.edu. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help), §4 "Antirealism: Foils for scientific realism: §4.1: "Empiricism", in Edward N. Zalta, ed, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Summer 2013 edn: "Traditionally, instrumentalists maintain that terms for unobservables, by themselves, have no meaning; construed literally, statements involving them are not even candidates for truth or falsity.The most influential advocates of instrumentalism were the logical empiricists (or logical positivists), including Carnap and Hempel, famously associated with the Vienna Circle group of philosophers and scientists as well as important contributors elsewhere.In order to rationalize the ubiquitous use of terms which might otherwise be taken to refer to unobservables in scientific discourse, they adopted a non-literal semantics according to which these terms acquire meaning by being associated with terms for observables (for example, 'electron' might mean 'white streak in a cloud chamber'), or with demonstrable laboratory procedures (a view called 'operationalism').Insuperable difficulties with this semantics led ultimately (in large measure) to the demise of logical empiricism and the growth of realism.The contrast here is not merely in semantics and epistemology: a number of logical empiricists also held the neo-Kantian view that ontological questions 'external' to the frameworks for knowledge represented by theories are also meaningless (the choice of a framework is made solely on pragmatic grounds), thereby rejecting the metaphysical dimension of realism (as in Carnap 1950)".Samir Okasha, Philosophy of Science: A Very Short Introduction (New York: Oxford University Press, 2002), p. 62: "Strictly we should distinguish two sorts of anti-realism.According to the first sort, talk of unobservable entities is not to be understood literally at all.So when a scientist pus forward a theory about electrons, for example, we should not take him to be asserting the existence of entities called 'electrons'.Rather, his talk of electrons is metaphorical.This form of anti-realism was popular in the first half of the 20th century, but few people advocate it today.It was motivated largely by a doctrine in the philosophy of language, according to which it is not possible to make meaningful assertions about things that cannot in principle be observed, a doctrine that few contemporary philosophers accept.The second sort of anti-realism accepts that talk of unobservable entities should be taken at face value: if a theory says that electrons are negatively charged, it is true if electrons do exist and are negatively charged, but false otherwise.But we will never know which, says the anti-realist.So the correct attitude towards the claims that scientists make about unobservable reality is one of total agnosticism.They are either true or false, but we are incapable of finding out which.Most modern anti-realism is of this second sort".
^ a b Meinard Kuhlmann, "Physicists debate whether the world is made of particles or fields—or something else entirely, Scientific American, 2013 Aug;309(2).
^ Chakravartty, Anjan (August 13, 2017).Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Retrieved August 13, 2019 – via Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
Torretti 1999 p. 98: "I shall dwell at some length on Kant's conception of the sources and scope of Newton's conceptual frame, for it was the first full-blown philosophy of physics and remains to this day the most significant".
*Anjan Chakravartty, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Chakravartty, Anjan (April 27, 2011). "Scientific Realism". Retrieved August 13, 2019 – via plato.stanford.edu. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help), §4 "Antirealism: Foils for scientific realism: §4.1: "Empiricism", in Edward N. Zalta, ed, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Summer 2013 edn: "Traditionally, instrumentalists maintain that terms for unobservables, by themselves, have no meaning; construed literally, statements involving them are not even candidates for truth or falsity.The most influential advocates of instrumentalism were the logical empiricists (or logical positivists), including Carnap and Hempel, famously associated with the Vienna Circle group of philosophers and scientists as well as important contributors elsewhere.In order to rationalize the ubiquitous use of terms which might otherwise be taken to refer to unobservables in scientific discourse, they adopted a non-literal semantics according to which these terms acquire meaning by being associated with terms for observables (for example, 'electron' might mean 'white streak in a cloud chamber'), or with demonstrable laboratory procedures (a view called 'operationalism').Insuperable difficulties with this semantics led ultimately (in large measure) to the demise of logical empiricism and the growth of realism.The contrast here is not merely in semantics and epistemology: a number of logical empiricists also held the neo-Kantian view that ontological questions 'external' to the frameworks for knowledge represented by theories are also meaningless (the choice of a framework is made solely on pragmatic grounds), thereby rejecting the metaphysical dimension of realism (as in Carnap 1950)".Samir Okasha, Philosophy of Science: A Very Short Introduction (New York: Oxford University Press, 2002), p. 62: "Strictly we should distinguish two sorts of anti-realism.According to the first sort, talk of unobservable entities is not to be understood literally at all.So when a scientist pus forward a theory about electrons, for example, we should not take him to be asserting the existence of entities called 'electrons'.Rather, his talk of electrons is metaphorical.This form of anti-realism was popular in the first half of the 20th century, but few people advocate it today.It was motivated largely by a doctrine in the philosophy of language, according to which it is not possible to make meaningful assertions about things that cannot in principle be observed, a doctrine that few contemporary philosophers accept.The second sort of anti-realism accepts that talk of unobservable entities should be taken at face value: if a theory says that electrons are negatively charged, it is true if electrons do exist and are negatively charged, but false otherwise.But we will never know which, says the anti-realist.So the correct attitude towards the claims that scientists make about unobservable reality is one of total agnosticism.They are either true or false, but we are incapable of finding out which.Most modern anti-realism is of this second sort".
The last great British empiricist, David Hume, posed a number of challenges to Francis Bacon's inductivism, which had been the prevailing, or at least the professed view concerning the attainment of scientific knowledge.Regarding himself as having placed his own theory of knowledge on par with Newton's theory of motion, Hume supposed that he had championed inductivism over scientific realism.Upon reading Hume's work, Immanuel Kant was "awakened from dogmatic slumber", and thus sought to neutralise any threat to science posed by Humean empiricism.Kant would develop the first stark philosophy of physics.[10]
P Kyle Stanford, Exceeding Our Grasp: Science, History, and the Problem of Unconceived Alternatives (New York: Oxford University Press, 2006), p. 198.
"Physicists debate whether the world is made of particles or fields—or something else entirely
Karl R Popper, Conjectures and Refutations: The Growth of Scientific Knowledge (London: Routledge, 2003 [1963]), ISBN 0-415-28594-1, quote: "Instrumentalism can be formulated as the thesis that scientific theories—the theories of the so-called 'pure' sciences—are nothing but computational rules (or inference rules); of the same character, fundamentally, as the computation rules of the so-called 'applied' sciences. (One might even formulate it as the thesis that "pure" science is a misnomer, and that all science is 'applied'.)Now my reply to instrumentalism consists in showing that there are profound differences between "pure" theories and technological computation rules, and that instrumentalism can give a perfect description of these rules but is quite unable to account for the difference between them and the theories".
^ a b Gouinlock, James, "What is the Legacy of Instrumentalism? Rorty's Interpretation of Dewey." In Herman J. Saatkamp, ed., Rorty and Pragmatism. Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University Press, 1995.
^ a b c Roberto Torretti, The Philosophy of Physics (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999), pp. 242–43: "Like Whewell and Mach, Duhem was a practicing scientist who devoted an important part of his adult life to the history and philosophy of physics....His philosophy is contained in La théorie physique: son objet, sa structure [The Aim and Structure of Physical Theory] (1906), which may well be, to this day, the best overall book on the subject.Its main theses, although quite novel when first put forward, have in the meantime become commonplace, so I shall review them summarily without detailed argument, just to associate them with his name.But first I ought to say that neither in the first nor in the second (1914) edition of his book did Duhem take into account—or even so much as mention—the deep changes that were then taking place in physics.Still, the subsequent success and current entrenchment of Duhem's ideas are due above all to their remarkable agreement with—and the light they throw on—the practice of mathematical physics in the twentieth century.In the first part of La théorie physique, Duhem contrasts two opinions concerning the aim of physical theory.For some authors, it ought to furnish 'the explanation of a set of experimentally established laws', while for others it is 'an abstract system whose aim is to summarize and logically classify a set of experimental laws, without pretending to explain these laws' (Duhem 1914, p. 3).Duhem resolutely sides with the latter.His rejection of the former rests on his understanding of 'explanation' ('explication' in French), which he expresses as follows: 'To explain, explicare, is to divest reality from the appearances which enfold it like veils, in order to see the reality face to face' (pp 3–4).Authors in the first group expect from physics the true vision of things-in-themselves that religious myth and philosophical speculation have hitherto been unable to supply.Their explanation makes no sense unless (i) there is, 'beneath the sense appearances revealed to us by our perceptions, [...] a reality different from these appearances' and (ii) we know 'the nature of the elements which constitute' that reality (p 7).Thus, physical theory cannot explain—in the stated sense—the laws established by experiment unless it depends on metaphysics and thus remains subject to the interminable disputes of metaphysicians.Worse still, the teachings of no metaphysical school are sufficiently detailed and precise to account for all of the elements of physical theory (p 18).Duhem instead assigns to physical theories a more modest but autonomous and readily attainable aim: 'A physical theory is not an explanation.It is a system of mathematical propositions, derived from a small number of principles, whose purpose is to represent a set of experimental laws as simply, as completely, and as exactly as possible (Duhem 1914, p. 24)".
Rejecting scientific realism's ambitions to uncover metaphysical truth about nature,[2] instrumentalism is usually categorized as an antirealism, although its mere lack of commitment to scientific theory's realism can be termed nonrealism.Instrumentalism merely bypasses debate concerning whether, for example, a particle spoken about in particle physics is a discrete entity enjoying individual existence, or is an excitation mode of a region of a field, or is something else altogether.[3][4][5]Instrumentalism holds that theoretical terms need only be useful to predict the phenomena, the observed outcomes.[3]
Instrumentalism is closely related to pragmatism, the position that practical consequences are an essential basis for determining meaning, truth or value.
From the 1930s until Thomas Kuhn's 1962 The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, there were roughly two prevailing views about the nature of science.The popular view was scientific realism, which usually involved a belief that science was progressively unveiling a truer view, and building a better understanding, of nature.The professional approach was logical empiricism, wherein a scientific theory was held to be a logical structure whose terms all ultimately refer to some form of observation, while an objective process neutrally arbitrates theory choice, compelling scientists to decide which scientific theory was superior.Physicists knew better, but, busy developing the Standard Model, were so steeped in developing quantum field theory, that their talk, largely metaphorical, perhaps even metaphysical, was unintelligible to the public, while the steep mathematics warded off philosophers of physics.[4]By the 1980s, physicists regarded not particles, but fields as the more fundamental, and no longer even hoped to discover what entities and processes might be truly fundamental to nature, perhaps not even the field.[4][5]Kuhn had not claimed to have developed a novel thesis, but instead hoped to synthesize more usefully recent developments in the philosophy and history of science.
Gouinlock, James, "What is the Legacy of Instrumentalism? Rorty's Interpretation of Dewey." In Herman J. Saatkamp, ed., Rorty and Pragmatism. Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University Press, 1995.
unrelated or insufficiently related to the topic of the article
Please help improve this section or discuss this issue on the talk page.
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.1British empiricism																											1.2Transcendental idealism																											1.3Logical empiricism																											1.4Historical turn																											1.5Scientific realism																											1.6Constructive empiricism as a form of instrumentalism
^ Deutsch, David, 1953- (1997). The fabric of reality : the science of parallel universes-- and its implications (First American ed.). New York, New York. ISBN 0-7139-9061-9. OCLC 36393434.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
And since science aims to reveal not private but public truths, verificationists switched from phenomenalism to physicalism, whereby scientific theory refers to objects observable in space and at least in principle already recognizable by physicists.Finding strict empiricism untenable, verificationism underwent "liberalization of empiricism". Rudolf Carnap even suggested that empiricism's basis was pragmatic.Recognizing that verification—proving a theory false or true—was unattainable, they discarded that demand and focused on confirmation theory.Carnap sought simply to quantify a universal law's degree of confirmation—its probable truth—but, despite his great mathematical and logical skill, discovered equations never operable to yield over zero degree of confirmation. Carl Hempel found the paradox of confirmation.By the 1950s, the verificationists had established philosophy of science as subdiscipline within academia's philosophy departments.By 1962, verificationists had asked and endeavored to answer seemingly all the great questions about scientific theory.Their discoveries showed that the idealized scientific worldview was naively mistaken.By then the leader of the legendary venture, Hempel raised the white flag that signaled verificationism's demise.Suddenly striking Western society, then, was Kuhn's landmark thesis, introduced by none other than Carnap, verificationism's greatest firebrand.Instrumentalism exhibited by scientists often does not even discern unobservable from observable entities.[3]
Chakravartty, Anjan (August 13, 2017).Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Retrieved August 13, 2019 – via Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
Bas van Fraassen's (1980)[13] project of constructive empiricism focuses on belief in the domain of the observable, so for this reason it is described as a form of instrumentalism.[14]
Roberto Torretti, The Philosophy of Physics (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999), pp. 242–43: "Like Whewell and Mach, Duhem was a practicing scientist who devoted an important part of his adult life to the history and philosophy of physics....His philosophy is contained in La théorie physique: son objet, sa structure [The Aim and Structure of Physical Theory] (1906), which may well be, to this day, the best overall book on the subject.Its main theses, although quite novel when first put forward, have in the meantime become commonplace, so I shall review them summarily without detailed argument, just to associate them with his name.But first I ought to say that neither in the first nor in the second (1914) edition of his book did Duhem take into account—or even so much as mention—the deep changes that were then taking place in physics.Still, the subsequent success and current entrenchment of Duhem's ideas are due above all to their remarkable agreement with—and the light they throw on—the practice of mathematical physics in the twentieth century.In the first part of La théorie physique, Duhem contrasts two opinions concerning the aim of physical theory.For some authors, it ought to furnish 'the explanation of a set of experimentally established laws', while for others it is 'an abstract system whose aim is to summarize and logically classify a set of experimental laws, without pretending to explain these laws' (Duhem 1914, p. 3).Duhem resolutely sides with the latter.His rejection of the former rests on his understanding of 'explanation' ('explication' in French), which he expresses as follows: 'To explain, explicare, is to divest reality from the appearances which enfold it like veils, in order to see the reality face to face' (pp 3–4).Authors in the first group expect from physics the true vision of things-in-themselves that religious myth and philosophical speculation have hitherto been unable to supply.Their explanation makes no sense unless (i) there is, 'beneath the sense appearances revealed to us by our perceptions, [...] a reality different from these appearances' and (ii) we know 'the nature of the elements which constitute' that reality (p 7).Thus, physical theory cannot explain—in the stated sense—the laws established by experiment unless it depends on metaphysics and thus remains subject to the interminable disputes of metaphysicians.Worse still, the teachings of no metaphysical school are sufficiently detailed and precise to account for all of the elements of physical theory (p 18).Duhem instead assigns to physical theories a more modest but autonomous and readily attainable aim: 'A physical theory is not an explanation.It is a system of mathematical propositions, derived from a small number of principles, whose purpose is to represent a set of experimental laws as simply, as completely, and as exactly as possible (Duhem 1914, p. 24)".
^ a b c P Kyle Stanford, Exceeding Our Grasp: Science, History, and the Problem of Unconceived Alternatives (New York: Oxford University Press, 2006), p. 198.
Torretti, Roberto, The Philosophy of Physics (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999), Berkeley, pp. 98, 101–4.
For Berkeley, a scientific theory does not state causes or explanations, but simply identifies perceived types of objects and traces their typical regularities.[8]Berkeley thus anticipated the basis of what Auguste Comte in the 1830s called positivism,[8] although Comtean positivism added other principles concerning the scope, method, and uses of science that Berkeley would have disavowed.Berkeley also noted the usefulness of a scientific theory having terms that merely serve to aid calculations without their having to refer to anything in particular, so long as they proved useful in practice.[8]Berkeley thus predated the insight that logical positivists—who originated in the late 1920s, but who, by the 1950s, had softened into logical empiricists—would be compelled to accept: theoretical terms in science do not always translate into observational terms.[9]
^ a b c Fitness, Julie; Curtis, Marie (2005-07-08). "Emotional Intelligence and the Trait Meta-Mood Scale: Relationships with Empathy, Attributional Complexity, Self-control, and Responses to Interpersonal Conflict". e-Journal of Applied Psychology. 1 (1): 50–62. doi:10.7790/ejap.v1i1.9. ISSN 1832-7931.
Variance in meta-mood reflective states among individuals helps determine the different mechanisms individuals utilize to recognize, monitor, and regulate their feelings and emotions. The means by which individuals recognize their current mood, distinguish between different feelings, and adjust their emotions is crucial for the understanding of adaptive strategies they use to cope with interpersonal conflict and stress in their life.[2]
Canby, Nicholas K.; Cameron, Ian M.; Calhoun, Amrit T.; Buchanan, Gregory M. (2014-11-18). "A Brief Mindfulness Intervention for Healthy College Students and Its Effects on Psychological Distress, Self-Control, Meta-Mood, and Subjective Vitality". Mindfulness. 6 (5): 1071–1081. doi:10.1007/s12671-014-0356-5. ISSN 1868-8527. S2CID 144901037.
Thompson, Brian L.; Waltz, Jennifer; Croyle, Kristin; Pepper, Alison C. (2007). "Trait meta-mood and affect as predictors of somatic symptoms and life satisfaction". Personality and Individual Differences. 43 (7): 1786–1795. doi:10.1016/j.paid.2007.05.017. ISSN 0191-8869.
Extremera, Natalio; Salguero, Jose Martín; Fernández-Berrocal, Pablo (2010-11-18). "Trait Meta-Mood and Subjective Happiness: A 7-week Prospective Study". Journal of Happiness Studies. 12 (3): 509–517. doi:10.1007/s10902-010-9233-7. ISSN 1389-4978. S2CID 144410357.
Mayer, John D.; Gaschke, Yvonne N. (1988). "The experience and meta-experience of mood". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 55 (1): 102–111. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.55.1.102. ISSN 0022-3514. PMID 3418484.
Meta-mood is also a facet of emotional intelligence. Alexithymia, or the inability to identify and describe one's own or others' emotions, is generally viewed as antagonistic to meta-mood, as individuals who have symptoms of alexithymia often have trouble describing and analyzing their emotions. People who are unreflective and emotionally stable have fewer meta-mood experiences and commonly do not need them.[3] On the other hand, individuals who are generally self-aware and have high emotionality have highly developed meta-mood experiences. Studies have shown that individuals who are able to improve negative moods through meta-emotions are seen to possess healthier personalities than individuals who are not able to have such experiences.[3]
^ Salguero, José M.; Fernández-Berrocal, Pablo; Balluerka, Nekane; Aritzeta, Aitor (1 October 2010). "Measuring Perceived Emotional Intelligence in the Adolescent Population: Psychometric Properties of the Trait Meta-Mood Scale". Social Behavior and Personality. 38 (9): 1197–1209. doi:10.2224/sbp.2010.38.9.1197. Retrieved 27 September 2011.
This page was last edited on 26 January 2023, at 04:42 (UTC).
^ a b c Rey, Lourdes; Extremera, Natalio; Durán, Ma Auxiliadora (2012). "Core self-evaluations, meta-mood experience, and happiness: Tests of direct and moderating effects". Personality and Individual Differences. 53 (3): 207–212. doi:10.1016/j.paid.2012.03.009. ISSN 0191-8869.
Mayer, John D.; Stevens, Alexander A. (1994). "An Emerging Understanding of the Reflective (Meta-) Experience of Mood". Journal of Research in Personality. 28 (3): 351–373. doi:10.1006/jrpe.1994.1025. ISSN 0092-6566.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Extremera, Natalio; Durán, Auxiliadora; Rey, Lourdes (2009). "The moderating effect of trait meta-mood and perceived stress on life satisfaction". Personality and Individual Differences. 47 (2): 116–121. doi:10.1016/j.paid.2009.02.007. ISSN 0191-8869.
Salguero, José M.; Fernández-Berrocal, Pablo; Balluerka, Nekane; Aritzeta, Aitor (1 October 2010). "Measuring Perceived Emotional Intelligence in the Adolescent Population: Psychometric Properties of the Trait Meta-Mood Scale". Social Behavior and Personality. 38 (9): 1197–1209. doi:10.2224/sbp.2010.38.9.1197. Retrieved 27 September 2011.
^ a b c d e f .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Extremera, Natalio; Durán, Auxiliadora; Rey, Lourdes (2009). "The moderating effect of trait meta-mood and perceived stress on life satisfaction". Personality and Individual Differences. 47 (2): 116–121. doi:10.1016/j.paid.2009.02.007. ISSN 0191-8869.
^ a b c Canby, Nicholas K.; Cameron, Ian M.; Calhoun, Amrit T.; Buchanan, Gregory M. (2014-11-18). "A Brief Mindfulness Intervention for Healthy College Students and Its Effects on Psychological Distress, Self-Control, Meta-Mood, and Subjective Vitality". Mindfulness. 6 (5): 1071–1081. doi:10.1007/s12671-014-0356-5. ISSN 1868-8527. S2CID 144901037.
^ a b Thompson, Brian L.; Waltz, Jennifer; Croyle, Kristin; Pepper, Alison C. (2007). "Trait meta-mood and affect as predictors of somatic symptoms and life satisfaction". Personality and Individual Differences. 43 (7): 1786–1795. doi:10.1016/j.paid.2007.05.017. ISSN 0191-8869.
"Measuring Perceived Emotional Intelligence in the Adolescent Population: Psychometric Properties of the Trait Meta-Mood Scale"
Fitness, Julie; Curtis, Marie (2005-07-08). "Emotional Intelligence and the Trait Meta-Mood Scale: Relationships with Empathy, Attributional Complexity, Self-control, and Responses to Interpersonal Conflict". e-Journal of Applied Psychology. 1 (1): 50–62. doi:10.7790/ejap.v1i1.9. ISSN 1832-7931.
Coping strategies individuals use are central determinants of overall psychological well-being and mental health.[7] Previous research has shown that meta-mood is linked to lower levels of depression and anxiety, and higher levels self-esteem. The perceived ability to distinguish and repair distressing moods or preserve positive moods predicts superior overall well-being. Emotional repair is also found to have direct links to the maintenance of subjective happiness.[8] Meta-mood experiences, such as mood clarity and emotional repair, are high predictors of life satisfaction. Individuals who are prone to being open about their emotions and who recognize their negative and positive responses towards a variety of environmental stressors have a greater probability of experiencing higher levels of life satisfaction than individuals who withhold their emotions.[2] Individuals who are aware of their emotional states and are able to regulate their cognitive and emotional responses, are able to turn their attention towards coping strategies in difficult situations and minimize the psychological impact of stressful events. Ultimately, individuals prone to meta-mood experiences are able to acknowledge and respond to external environmental demands more easily and recover from troubled situations at a quicker pace.[2] However, individuals low on emotional intelligence often exhibit avoidance-oriented and emotion-oriented coping styles.[6] In addition, individuals who are not able to regulate and repair negative mood states have higher reports of illness.[5]
^ Goleman, Daniel. Emotional Intelligence. New York: Bantam Books, 1995
The Trait Meta-Mood Scale (TMMS) is used to measure emotional beliefs and attitudes people have towards their own emotional experiences.[9] The TMMS scale measures three cognitive components of emotional intelligence: attention to feelings, clarity of feelings, and mood repair. Scores on the TMMS are utilized to analyse stable individual differences in the manner through which individuals respond to their emotional states.[6] Individuals who score high on the TMMS scale have less melancholic thoughts, lower levels of anxiety and depression, and lower rates of borderline personality disorders. In a 7-week study examining the link between meta-mood and subjective happiness, higher scores on the TMMS were associated with fewer negative psychological reactions to interpersonal conflicts, measured through cortisol and blood pressure changes.[10]
Rey, Lourdes; Extremera, Natalio; Durán, Ma Auxiliadora (2012). "Core self-evaluations, meta-mood experience, and happiness: Tests of direct and moderating effects". Personality and Individual Differences. 53 (3): 207–212. doi:10.1016/j.paid.2012.03.009. ISSN 0191-8869.
^ Extremera, Natalio; Salguero, Jose Martín; Fernández-Berrocal, Pablo (2010-11-18). "Trait Meta-Mood and Subjective Happiness: A 7-week Prospective Study". Journal of Happiness Studies. 12 (3): 509–517. doi:10.1007/s10902-010-9233-7. ISSN 1389-4978. S2CID 144410357.
Meta-mood is a term used by psychologists to refer to an individual's awareness of their emotions.[1] The term was first utilized by John D. Mayer and Peter Salovey who believed the experience of mood involved "direct" and "indirect" components.[2] While the direct level refers to the simple appearance of mood - happiness, fear, anger, sadness, and surprise (often referred to as the six basic emotions, introduced by Paul Ekman),[3] the indirect level, or the meta-mood experience, does not solely consist of the emotions experienced by an individual in the moment. Rather, it is a reflective state which involves additional thoughts and feelings about the mood itself.[2] "I shouldn’t feel this way" or "I am thinking of ways to improve my mood" are examples of reflective thoughts during a meta-mood experience.[4]
^ a b c d Mayer, John D.; Gaschke, Yvonne N. (1988). "The experience and meta-experience of mood". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 55 (1): 102–111. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.55.1.102. ISSN 0022-3514. PMID 3418484.
Comprehending and measuring the degree to which individuals are able to respond to and understand their emotions is an important precondition if one were to predict future behaviors, emotional disorders, and psychological maladjustments.[2] Meta-mood experiences have possible implications for a variety of treatments and preventative measures within the field of clinical psychology and psychotherapy. Mood repair is key in tackling the harmful effects of anxiety, depression, and other psychological conditions. As such, a variety of studies concerning meta-mood experiences have accentuated the importance of positive psychology and stress management programs for assisting individuals in coping with distressing situations in daily life.[8] In their study, Lourdes Rey et al. have argued that "it seems reasonable to assume that individuals might be able to be trained to acquire mood repair abilities, given the high similarity between mood repair and other traditional techniques like positive refocusing or learned optimism styles".[8] Training individuals to be aware of their emotions, to be able to differentiate among different feelings, and consequently change their mood, is useful in psychotherapy because patients with meta-mood experiences are better equipped to handle difficult situations. Studies have shown that mindfulness intervention in colleges increases meta-mood experiences of students, and therefore leads to an improvement in student well-being.[7] Mindfulness meditation consists of attentional training and focuses on developing insight into one's emotional experience.[7] In addition, when patients believe that their mood and meta-mood experiences are understood, they are more willing to open up about their character, their fears, and their core beliefs.
The measurement of trait meta-mood involves three main components: attention to feelings (the individual awareness of one's mood), clarity of feelings (the individual ability to distinguish between moods), and mood repair (the ability to regulate mood from a negative to positive state).[5] Of all three components, mood repair is most important in achieving a healthy emotional mindset. Mood regulation takes place on both conscious and unconscious levels.[4] Mayer et al. contends that "a negative mood that is evaluated as out of control, unacceptable, and long-lasting is devastating; but were the evaluations reversed so as to view the mood as under control and soon to change, the overall feeling would be far less destructive to one’s equanimity".[3] Self-control and self-regulation are crucial components of emotional intelligence and are associated with positive cognitive responses to social interactions.[6]
^ a b Mayer, John D.; Stevens, Alexander A. (1994). "An Emerging Understanding of the Reflective (Meta-) Experience of Mood". Journal of Research in Personality. 28 (3): 351–373. doi:10.1006/jrpe.1994.1025. ISSN 0092-6566.
Matza, David. (1964). Delinquency and Drift. Reprint edition: 1990.Transaction Press. ISBN 0-88738-804-3
^ cite book |last1=Cloward |first1=Richard |last2=Ohlin |first2=Lloyd |title=Delinquency and Opportunity: A Theory of Delinquent Gangs |date=1960 |publisher=Free Press |location=New York
Crow, Thomas. (1997). "Substance over style - artist Phil Cohen's Rethinking the Youth Question". ArtForum XXXVI,Oct. pp15–16. [1]
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Subcultural theory" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
cite book |last1=Cloward |first1=Richard |last2=Ohlin |first2=Lloyd |title=Delinquency and Opportunity: A Theory of Delinquent Gangs |date=1960 |publisher=Free Press |location=New York
Kaminski, Marek M. (2004) Games Prisoners Play.Princeton: Princeton University Press. ISBN 0-691-11721-7 http://webfiles.uci.edu/mkaminsk/www/book.html
David Matza (1964) argued that, rather than being committed to delinquency, young people drifted between conventional and unconventional behavior, thus due to - often - their unconventional childhood tribulations.[citation needed]
Frazier, Edward Franklin. (1932). The Free Negro Family, Arno Press.
This page was last edited on 21 November 2022, at 01:04 (UTC).
Frazier, E. Franklin. (1957). Race and Culture Contacts in the Modern World. New York: Alfred Knopf.
Miller, Walter (September 1959). "Implications of Urban Lower-Class Culture For Social Work". Social Service Review. 33 (3): 219–236. doi:10.1086/640711. S2CID 143651863.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Fischer, Claude (1995). "The Subcultural Theory of Urbanism: A Twentieth Year Assessment". American Journal of Sociology. 101 (3): 543–577. doi:10.1086/230753. S2CID 145048002.
Miller (1958, 1959) agreed with Cohen that there was a delinquency subculture, but argued that it arose entirely from the lower class way of life.[citation needed]
In the earliest stages of the Chicago School and their investigation of human ecology, one of the key tropes was the concept of disorganization which contributed to the emergence of an underclass.
Thrasher, F.M. (1927). The Gang. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Thrasher, F.M. (1933). "Juvenile Delinquency and Crime Prevention". Journal of Educational Sociology. 6 (8): 500–509. doi:10.2307/2961696. JSTOR 2961696.
Frazier, Edward Franklin. (1949). The Negro in the United States. New York: Macmillan.
Shaw, Clifford (1930). The Jackroller: A Delinquent Boy's Own Story. Reprint edition: 1966. Chicago:The University of Chicago Press.
Richard Cloward and Lloyd Ohlin made reference to R. K. Merton's Strain Theory, while taking a further step in how the Subculture was 'Parallel' in their opportunities: the Criminal subculture had the same rules and level.[1]
Frederic M. Thrasher (1927: 46) studied gangs in a systematic way, analyzing gang activity and behavior. He defined gangs by the process they go through to form a group:
Cohen, Albert & Short, James, (1958), "Research in Delinquent Subcultures", Journal of Social Issues, pp20–37.
Frazier, E. Franklin. (1957). The Black Bourgeoisie. Free Press paperback edition: 1997. ISBN 0-684-83241-0
In criminology, subcultural theory emerged from the work of the Chicago School on gangs and developed through the symbolic interactionism school into a set of theories arguing that certain groups or subcultures in society have values and attitudes that are conducive to crime and violence. The primary focus is on juvenile delinquency because theorists believe that if this pattern of offending can be understood and controlled, it will break the transition from teenage offender into habitual criminal. Some of the theories are functionalist, assuming that criminal activity is motivated by economic needs, while others posit a social class rationale for deviance.
Cohen, Albert K. (1955). Delinquent Boys: The Culture of the Gang, Glencoe. IL: Free Press.
Frazier, Edward Franklin (1931) The Negro Family in Chicago. Revised and abridged edition: 1967. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Find sources: "Subcultural theory" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Miller, Walter (1958). "Lower Class Culture as a Generating Milieu of Gang Delinquency". Journal of Social Issues. 14 (3): 5–20. doi:10.1111/j.1540-4560.1958.tb01413.x.
Albert K. Cohen (1955)did not look at the economically oriented career criminal, but looked at the delinquency subculture, focusing on gang delinquency among working class youth in slum areas which developed a distinctive culture as a response to their perceived lack of economic and social opportunity within U.S. society.
Phil Cohen (1972) studied the youth of East London in the early 1970s. He examined the immediate and the wider context to determine how two different youth subcultures reacted to the changes occurring in their community. He suggested that the Mod reaction was to the new ideology of affluence. They wanted to show that they had money and knew how to spend it. In contrast, skinheads looked back to the more traditional working class community. Each generation tries to find employment or adapts to unemployment. But the 1920s had very different economic circumstances to later decades. Cohen argued that youth develop a cultural style as a means of coping with their particular circumstances and of resisting the dominant values of society. This casts working class youth as the standard bearers of class struggle. There is little in real terms that youth can do to change society, but resistance offers subjective satisfaction which can be shown through style: the clothes, haircuts, music and language of the different youth cultures. Cohen argued that these styles are not meaningless, but are deeply layered in meaning. This is an application of Marxist Subcultural Theory which synthesised the structuralism of Marxism with the Labelling Theory. The approach matched that of the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies at Birmingham University (see Crow: 1997). This approach places emphasis on the contents of youth culture and on the differences produced by class background. The assumption is that a capitalist society attempts to achieve hegemony by using the cultural values of society for their own benefit. The domination of the adults is enforced through the system of mortgages, credit cards, and family commitments, and they are seduced into accepting the relative security of capitalism. But the youth are relatively free of long-term commitment or responsibility for a family and, with many unemployed, the youth are the weakest point in the structure of hegemony.
Cohen, P. (1972). Sub-cultural Conflict and Working Class Community. Working Papers in Cultural Studies. No.2. Birmingham: University of Birmingham.
