In development was a confrontation between Mordin and Grunt similar to confrontations mentioned in the article. However, this was cut[1].
Characters																																							Mass Effect Characters																															Mass Effect 2 Characters																															Mass Effect 3 Characters																															Mass Effect: Andromeda Characters																															Squad
Forums																																							Projects Forum																															Policy Forum																															Community Forum																															Watercooler Forum (legacy)																															Help Desk Forum (legacy)
Original Trilogy																																														Guides																																							Mass Effect Guide																															Mass Effect 2 Guide																															Mass Effect 3 Guide																																																Commander Shepard																																							Interrupt																															Interrupt (Mass Effect 3)																															Morality																															Reputation																															Research																															Romance																																																Gameplay																																							Adversaries																															Missions																															Assignments																															Weapons																															Talents																															Powers																															Equipment																															Achievements																																																Multiplayer																																							Characters																															Customization																															Equipment																															Gear																															Maps																															Challenges																																																Media																																							Books																															Comics																															Original Soundtrack																															Films																															N7 HQ																															Apps
Mass Effect 2 features a Loyalty system, whereby completing a unique mission of personal importance for each member of the squad unlocks that character's fourth power as well as their alternate outfit. Loyalty additionally has an effect on the end game mission. Abilities unlocked through loyalty can also be learned by Commander Shepard using the Advanced Training research upgrade, though only one may be learned at any given time, and can also be accessed when creating a new Shepard or importing a Shepard from the original Mass Effect.
Completing aloyalty mission will cause the relevant squad member to become loyal to you, enabling an alternate outfit, a bonus power, and improving their chances of survival during the suicide mission (provided you make the correct decisions during the mission). To engage a loyalty mission, the relevant character must be brought in your squad, with the exception of Samara, who shows up at the appropriate times (though it is, however, a good idea to bring her along).
It is possible to regain the lost loyalty of a squad member with another Charm or Intimidate conversation option later. However, the team member whom Shepard does not support will no longer respond to romantic overtures, even if their loyalty is later regained. Losing the loyalty of one of the team members will not result in the loss of their alternate outfit or special power, nor the Commander's access to it through the "Advanced Training" research project.
Explore																																														Main Page																																	Discuss																																	All Pages																																	Community																																	Interactive Maps																																	Recent Blog Posts
Media																																							Mass Effect Andromeda: Initiation																															Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising																															Mass Effect Andromeda: Annihilation																															Original Soundtrack																															Mass Effect: Discovery
For some squad members, it is possible to make choices during their personal mission that will prevent their becoming loyal, even though the mission is considered complete. These missions are Tali's, Zaeed's, Thane's, and Samara's loyalty missions.
Pathfinder Ryder																																							Augmentations																															Mods																															Research																															Development																															Narrative Actions																															Profiles																															Romance
Community																																														Manual of Style																																							Community Guidelines																															Files Guideline																															Chat Policy																															Information Sourcing																															Manual of Style																																																Administrators																																	Chat																																	Forums																																							Projects Forum																															Policy Forum																															Community Forum																															Watercooler Forum (legacy)																															Help Desk Forum (legacy)																																																Recent Blog Posts																																	Sandbox
Zaeed's and Kasumi's loyalty missions are automatically available upon recruitment (their respective Dossier missions are just short dialogue sequences without any combat), and can be completed before the mission on Horizon.
Legion and Tali argue because Legion scanned Tali's omni-tool for information on the Flotilla and wants to transmit it back to the geth fleet
You will acquire the 10 loyalty missions in the following order: Jacob, Miranda, Jack, Mordin, Grunt, Garrus, Samara, Tali, Thane, Legion.
Milky Way																																							Attican Traverse																															Earth Systems Alliance Space																															Inner Council Space																															Outer Council Space																															Terminus Systems
In order to placate both squad members, it is necessary to choose a Charm or Intimidate conversation option.If Shepard does not have enough Paragon or Renegade points, the options will be grayed out, forcing a choice between the two squad members. Note that because of the way morality works in Mass Effect 2 the option could be grayed out even if the Paragon or Renegade bar appears "full" - meaning Shepard has not achieved a high enough percentage of the possible morality points that have become available to that point in the game.
If you do not recruit/awaken a squad member, theirloyalty mission will be skipped and the next loyalty mission from the sequence will be available for acquisition instead. You will acquire the skipped loyalty mission after completing an assignment or mission upon recruiting the squad member (see above for exceptions). For example, if you have Samara's and you haven't recruited Tali, then you will get Thane's instead.
Commander Shepard																																							Interrupt																															Interrupt (Mass Effect 3)																															Morality																															Reputation																															Research																															Romance
Guides																																							Mass Effect Guide																															Mass Effect 2 Guide																															Mass Effect 3 Guide
Note: The loyalty system does not carry over to Mass Effect 3, but some aspects of it remain in that game's unique Reputation system. Also, gaining the loyalty of certain characters in Mass Effect 2 can have significant story impact for those characters if they appear in the next game.
This will happen as soon as the Commander returns to the Normandy after finishing the loyalty missions of both clashing parties, and Shepard will automatically be brought in to settle the dispute. Shepard can choose to support one squad member during the disagreement, but the other's loyalty will be lost as a result.
Summary list of bonus powers unlocked after each loyalty mission is completed successfully.
At any time after completing the mission on Horizon, you will be informed by Kelly Chambers that members would like to talk with you. The trigger for all loyalty missions is largely the same: every nextloyalty mission is triggered simply by completing a mission and/or an assignment with a "Mission Complete" screen. The 'small' assignments from the Normandy, Omega, Illium, Tuchanka and the Citadel do not count; also, Overlord, although made up of four assignments, counts as one. However, Grunt's, Samara's, Tali's, Thane's and Legion's missions have an additional trigger: if by that point all but one character has been recruited, and all other squad members'loyalty missions have been completed, then theloyalty mission for the aforementioned characters (whoever is recruited last) will become available directly after them joining the crew (completing a relevant Dossier mission, or, in case of Grunt and Legion, waking the character).
Andromeda																																							Heleus Cluster																															Eos																															Aya																															Voeld																															Havarl																															Kadara																															H-047c																															Elaaden
Jack and Miranda argue about Cerberus' and the Illusive Man's responsibility for the experimentation on Jack
Databases																																							Codex																															Codex (Mass Effect: Andromeda)																															Alliance News Network																															Cerberus Daily News																															Heleus News Service																															News Stories
After completing their respective loyalty missions (without using the evidence, in Tali's case), two pairs of team members will end up in an argument:
Stasis (Liara) - Requires completion of Lair of the Shadow Broker DLC (LE: included with Legendary Edition)
Mass Effect: Andromeda																																														Super Walkthrough																																	Pathfinder Ryder																																							Augmentations																															Mods																															Research																															Development																															Narrative Actions																															Profiles																															Romance																																																Gameplay																																							Armor																															Combat																															Missions																															Resources																															Skills																															Weapons																																																Multiplayer																																							APEX HQ																															APEX Missions																															Boosters																															Equipment																															Strike Teams																																																Media																																							Mass Effect Andromeda: Initiation																															Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising																															Mass Effect Andromeda: Annihilation																															Original Soundtrack																															Mass Effect: Discovery
Universe																																														Databases																																							Codex																															Codex (Mass Effect: Andromeda)																															Alliance News Network																															Cerberus Daily News																															Heleus News Service																															News Stories																																																Characters																																							Mass Effect Characters																															Mass Effect 2 Characters																															Mass Effect 3 Characters																															Mass Effect: Andromeda Characters																															Squad																																																Races																																	Timeline																																	Milky Way																																							Attican Traverse																															Earth Systems Alliance Space																															Inner Council Space																															Outer Council Space																															Terminus Systems																																																Andromeda																																							Heleus Cluster																															Eos																															Aya																															Voeld																															Havarl																															Kadara																															H-047c																															Elaaden																																																Storyline																																							Storyline II																															Storyline III																															Storyline IV
Manual of Style																																							Community Guidelines																															Files Guideline																															Chat Policy																															Information Sourcing																															Manual of Style
This page was last modified on 7 November 2021, at 23:32.
Loyal Subject is an achievement that requires the player to get the King Black Dragon to fully degrade a mole anti-dragon shield in a solo instance. Given his rate of attack, the process should take approximately 20 minutes.
This can be completed if you leave the instance and return.
patch 4 December 2017 (Update):Achievement is now available to free players.
Only the last charge has to be degraded by the KBD, so you can go to Iron dragons and use an Aggression potion to have a group of them attack you to lower the shield's charges, while making sure to leave before it reaches 0. (You can see charges by using the right-click "check charges" option on the shield).
patch 6 September 2021 (Update):Achievements for the Giant Mole, King Black Dragon and Chaos Elemental no longer display membership as a requirement - including in the Bossing Path - as they can be completed in free-to-play.
Achievements for the Giant Mole, King Black Dragon and Chaos Elemental no longer display membership as a requirement - including in the Bossing Path - as they can be completed in free-to-play.
It is worth noting that the shield doesn't degrade if the player is under the effects of Antifire or Super antifire. Thus, sufficient amount of food should be available while degrading the shield. Overloads or other stat-boosting/restoring potions are recommended to recover from the shock breath attack. The shield is degraded any time any of his dragonfire attacks hit you so it is recommended to stand at a ranged distance and ensure Autoretaliate is off. A Beast of Burden will be helpful to hold food, and other damage reducing or healing factors like Aegis aura or Enhanced excalibur may be helpful but are not needed. Using defensive abilities like Anticipation, Resonance, and Preparation will also reduce damage taken.
When the player is traveling between dimensions, the trident attempts to return to the player but stays in the current dimension. For example, if a player throws a Loyalty-enchanted trident while in the nether and goes to the overworld before the trident returns, the trident stays in the nether and does not despawn. As soon as the player returns to the nether, the trident resumes returning to the player.
In Java Edition, throwing a trident into the void effectively destroys the trident;[1] it never returns because there are no blocks or entities for it to hit.‌[until JE Edition Combat Tests] In Bedrock Edition, the trident returns after traveling around 15 blocks in the void. A Loyalty-enchanted trident does not return when thrown by a dispenser. If a Loyalty-enchanted trident is shot into the void by a dispenser, it does not despawn immediately like a normal trident would.
↑ The first sound is only played 1⁄9 of the time, while the others are played 4⁄9 of the time
Minecraft Wiki																																														Main page																																	Community portal																																	Projects																																	Wiki rules																																	Style guide																																	Recent changes																																	Random page																																	Sandbox																																	Admin noticeboard																																	Directors page																																	Wiki Discord
1.0 for return1, 1.0/0.8/1.2/1.2 for return2, and 1.0/0.8/0.8/1.2 for return3
When a trident enchanted with Loyalty is thrown and comes into contact with any block or entity, it returns after a time interval to the player who threw it. Higher enchantments decrease the waiting time to return.
If commands are used to increase the enchantment level beyond 127, Loyalty no longer functions.
Issues relating to "Loyalty" are maintained on the bug tracker. Report issues there.
Useful pages																																														Trading																																	Brewing																																	Enchanting																																	Mobs																																	Blocks																																	Items																																	Crafting																																	Smelting																																	Tutorials																																	Resource packs																																	Redstone circuits
The first sound is only played 1⁄9 of the time, while the others are played 4⁄9 of the time
↑ 1.0 for return1, 1.0/0.8/1.2/1.2 for return2, and 1.0/0.8/0.8/1.2 for return3
Loyalty and Riptide are mutually exclusive. If the two are combined via commands, Riptide still functions normally but the trident can no longer be thrown.
