This page was last edited on 22 January 2017, at 05:01 (UTC).
A lecturer writes a statement on the board, turns to the audience, and starts: "It's obvious...." He pauses, turns back to the board, studies what he has written, scratches his head, pulls out an iPad and fiddles a bit. He then runs back to his office, where he looks through several books. Running back to the hall he resumes: "Yes, it's obvious."
WP:You do need to cite that the sky is blue
In good company: How Obvious Ventures is disrupting venture capital
Nina DrokinaDynamics 365 Practice Lead | PhD in Marketing & Doctor of Economic Sciences | Nina#6340
Obvious Ventures has closed on a funky amount of funding (again) for fund two
Sweden's Hedvig raises $10.4M led by Obvious Ventures to build 'nice insurance'
The company states that it aims to invest in sustainable environmental systems, empower people through education, and healthy living through
Types of companies Obvious Ventures invests in are: food &
Why Obvious Ventures decided to lead startup Torch's Series B round
Incredible Health Raises $15M Series A Led By Andreessen Horowitz to Solve America's Looming Health Care Labor Crisis
Dynamics 365 Practice Lead | PhD in Marketing & Doctor of Economic Sciences | Nina#6340
As of 2019, the company has had two funds, with a total of more than $300 million and has invested in 67 companies.
A venture capital firm investing in early-stage startups that offer innovations and solutions for a more sustainable world. It was founded in2014 and is located in San Francisco, California.
Hedvig banks $45M to expand its millennial-focused insurance service in Europe
Obvious Ventures is a venture capital firm founded by Ev Williams, James Joaquin, Vishal Vasishth in 2014. The firm focuses its investments in early stage and seed stage companies that are are profitable, as well associally and environmentally impactful. Types of companies Obvious Ventures invests in are: food & agriculture, artificial intelligence & machine learning, biopharma & biotechnology, education, energy, FinTech, and manufacturing. Notable company investments made by Obvious Ventures include: Zymergen, Medium, Beyond Meat, and Recursion Pharma.
2Jessica KarpinskiI'm a knowledge seeker with a thirst to understand how the world is connected.
Jessica KarpinskiI'm a knowledge seeker with a thirst to understand how the world is connected.
E897: Obvious Ventures James Joaquin: brings operator expertise to fund #worldpositive startups
Obvious Ventures outlines the "world positive" impact of its startups and shares what's next
It tracks its credo by using the hashtag #worldpositive, which allows for its potential clients to see the types of companies in which Obvious Ventures invests.
9Nina DrokinaDynamics 365 Practice Lead | PhD in Marketing & Doctor of Economic Sciences | Nina#6340
A Venture Capitalist's View on the Promise of Electric Aviation
I'm a knowledge seeker with a thirst to understand how the world is connected.
in 2014. The firm focuses its investments in early stage and seed stage companies that are are profitable, as well associally and environmentally impactful.
The company states that it aims to invest in sustainable environmental systems, empower people through education, and healthy living through healthcare initiatives. It tracks its credo by using the hashtag #worldpositive, which allows for its potential clients to see the types of companies in which Obvious Ventures invests.
PM to push Macron on efforts to stop boat crossingsPublished1 hour ago
Here are six cute animals you've probably never heard of
Watch: China's leader and his two teacup power move. Video
Overnight snow to bring treacherous conditions to UKPublished2 hours ago
PM to push Macron on efforts to stop boat crossings
What you need to know on Eurovision UK entry in 90 seconds. Video
'The shorter your sleep, the shorter your life'Dr. Matthew Walker shares his tips for getting more sleepAttributionSounds
'Huge Shambles 2' and nuclear plant luck 'will run out'
Watch: China's leader and his two teacup power move. VideoWatch: China's leader and his two teacup power move
What you need to know on Eurovision UK entry in 90 seconds. VideoWhat you need to know on Eurovision UK entry in 90 seconds
5'Huge Shambles 2' and nuclear plant luck 'will run out'
The Wiki administrators, who number around 1,300, can usually identify the IP address of someone editing articles and this can be tracked to a rough location, enabling them to spot suspicious patterns of behaviour. Offending accounts can be suspended, without individuals necessarily being identified.
Dr. Matthew Walker shares his tips for getting more sleep
From curly pigs to tree-climbing catsHere are six cute animals you've probably never heard ofAttributionBitesize
Wikipedia row between the Guardian and Conservative Party chairman Grant Shapps
Er... yes. If the IP address is different - you use a different computer or phone than the one you used before and, if you're being really sneaky, move location to do your editing - there's no reason why you can't set up another anonymous account and carry on as before. And there are plenty of services allowing internet users to hide their IP addresses anyway, for example, by using an encrypted virtual private network.
Don't pretend you don't know. It's the not-for-profit multilingual online encyclopaedia co-founded by Jimmy Wales and supported by the Wikimedia Foundation. The English-language version of the Wiki contains nearly five million articles and has an estimated 25 million users.
In the wake of a Wikipedia row between the Guardian and Conservative Party chairman Grant Shapps, what are the editorial rules governing this massively popular online encyclopaedia?
Fancy a film tonight?There's something for everyone on BBC iPlayerAttributioniPlayer
'Money can't buy you a better cheeseburger'Billionaire Bill Gates talks to Amol Rajan about wealth, conspiracies and controversyAttributioniPlayer
What you need to know on Eurovision UK entry in 90 seconds
Billionaire Bill Gates talks to Amol Rajan about wealth, conspiracies and controversy
Wikipedia is self-policing and relies on its community of volunteer editors to improve the quality and accuracy of the pages over time. It's the "wisdom of crowds" principle in action. Writers are encouraged to back up factual statements with verifiable references and authoritative sources as often as possible.
How easy is it to make up stuff about people?
Anyone can - it's open to all and can be modified and edited by anyone. However, Wikipedia's administrators protect some pages from direct editing if they believe they are regularly subjected to "vandalism" - the addition of abusive language or falsehoods.
Wikipedia has rules - lots of rules. One obvious one is not being dishonest. Another is avoiding opinion and sticking to verifiable facts. But it is possible to set up a user account with a pseudonymous username to allow you to edit anonymously. However, using anonymous accounts for blatant misrepresentation and puffery - known as sock puppetry - is often spotted and the offending content challenged or removed by other editors.
