Explore Wikidata by looking at a featured showcase item for author Douglas Adams (Q42).
Learn how you can retrieve and use data from Wikidata.
2022-12-28: Lexeme L800000, for the Nynorsk (Q25164) word 'fotballturnering', meaning 'football tournament', is created.
Talk and ask questions on the Project chat, Telegram groups, or the live IRC chatconnect.
2022-11-09: The Wikidata development team talk about what they've been working on in the office hours at 17:00 UTC on Telegram.
2022-12-31: Lexeme L900000, for the Bokmål (Q25167) word 'urolog', meaning 'urologist', is created.
Work with other volunteers on a subject that interests you: join a WikiProject.
Check out Wikidata:Tools for some of our best tools and gadgets for using and exploring Wikidata.
As the world combats the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,Wikidata has been extremely useful in collecting and modelling useful information related to COVID-19, from relevant research articles and clinical trials, to epidemiological statistics of various regions, to lexemes for words and phrases commonly associated with the pandemic, and much more. A lot of work from WikiProject COVID-19 goes into creating and maintaining these items, bolstering Wikidata's role as a helpful open resource in the pandemic.
This page was last edited on 22 January 2023, at 14:51.
the free knowledge base with 102,150,210 data items that anyone can edit.
Wikidata acts as central storage for the structured data of its Wikimedia sister projects including Wikipedia, Wikivoyage, Wiktionary, Wikisource, and others.
Wikipedia – Encyclopedia    Wiktionary – Dictionary and thesaurus    Wikibooks – Textbooks, manuals, and cookbooks    Wikinews – News    Wikiquote – Collection of quotations    Wikisource – Library    Wikiversity – Learning resources    Wikivoyage – Travel guides    Wikispecies – Directory of species    Wikimedia Commons – Media repository    Incubator – New language versions    Meta-Wiki – Wikimedia project coordination    MediaWiki – Software documentation
2023-01-26: Lexeme L1000000, for the Nynorsk (Q25164) word 'etymologi', meaning 'etymology', is created.
Logs	Fishing Log	Crafting Log	Gathering Log	Challenge Log	Sightseeing Log	Minions	Mounts	Orchestrion Roll	More…
Content Stubs			Image Stubs		Heavensward Stubs		Stormblood Stubs		Shadowbringers Stubs
It's the first time I've seen one made from cat's-eye, so the owner shouldn't be hard to track down. I'd go and look for them myself, but I've got too much to do here.
Quests	Main Scenario Quests	Sidequests	Side Story Quests	Chronicles of a New Era	Tribal Quests	Levequests	More…
Activities	Achievements	Chocobo Companion	Deliveries	Events	Gold Saucer	Housing	Retainers	Wondrous Tails	More…
Almanac	Lore	Geography	NPCs	Notable Characters	Unending Codex	Bestiary	Transportation	Guides
Oh, yes. Cat's-eye charms like this were once used to ward off misfortune. The tradition began with the Church of the First Light and the gem represents their patron deity.
Would you be able to go in my place? The graveyard keeper is quite knowledgeable about charms and whatnot, so it might be worth asking him.
News	General	Final Fantasy XI	Final Fantasy XIV	Marvels Avengers
Podcasts	Aetheryte Radio (FFXIV)			Twitter		Lorecast (FFXIV)	Pet Food Beta (FFXI)			Twitter
Wiki	Final Fantasy VII Remake	Final Fantasy XI	Final Fantasy XIV	Forspoken	Heaven’s Vault	Marvel’s Avengers
Contribute	Content Stubs			Image Stubs		Heavensward Stubs		Stormblood Stubs		Shadowbringers Stubs		Edit Scoreboard	Random page	Recent changes	Special pages	Upload file	Using Infoboxes / Templates
Even though no one follows that old religion anymore, some of its customs remain, especially among the miners.
(of character) unpleasant, unappealing, lacking charm1996, Blur (band), "Charmless Man" (song)I met him in a crowded room / Where people go to drink away their gloom / He sat me down and so began / The story of a charmless man.
This page was last edited on 15 March 2019, at 01:18.
1996, Blur (band), "Charmless Man" (song)I met him in a crowded room / Where people go to drink away their gloom / He sat me down and so began / The story of a charmless man.
