
2019 November 20,Paul Stephen,“Lakes and lines offer scenery to savour”, inRail, page 56:Given these operational constraints and a renewed focus on the environment, plans to electrify the [Windermere] branch resurfaced in 2013 when the Department for Transport consented to a £16 million scheme to erect wires by 2024. Unfortunately, it was one of a trio of projects to then be unceremoniously scrapped by former Secretary of State for Transport Chris Grayling in July 2017, in response to spiralling costs on the Great Western Electrification Programme.
In an unceremonious manner, abruptly, without the due formalities.Encountering difficulties with the parcels’ unhelpful recipient, the deliveryman unceremoniously dumped the packages in the street outside the door.2019 November 20,Paul Stephen,“Lakes and lines offer scenery to savour”, inRail, page 56:Given these operational constraints and a renewed focus on the environment, plans to electrify the [Windermere] branch resurfaced in 2013 when the Department for Transport consented to a £16 million scheme to erect wires by 2024. Unfortunately, it was one of a trio of projects to then be unceremoniously scrapped by former Secretary of State for Transport Chris Grayling in July 2017, in response to spiralling costs on the Great Western Electrification Programme.
Given these operational constraints and a renewed focus on the environment, plans to electrify the [Windermere] branch resurfaced in 2013 when the Department for Transport consented to a £16 million scheme to erect wires by 2024. Unfortunately, it was one of a trio of projects to then be unceremoniously scrapped by former Secretary of State for Transport Chris Grayling in July 2017, in response to spiralling costs on the Great Western Electrification Programme.
This page was last edited on 16 January 2023, at 22:07.
2019 November 20,Paul Stephen,“Lakes and lines offer scenery to savour”, inRail, page 56:
French word of the week: entendreThis week's French word is 'entendre'.Find out its meaning and how it is used!March 6, 2023Read more
French Visual DictionaryA photo guide to everyday words and phrases in French, arranged by topic and including information on culture and customs. Free sample content available!Read more
French Easy Learning GrammarEasy Learning French Grammar is the ideal online resource for both home and school study.Read more
Example sentences from real language to show how the word is used
Collins Robert French Dictionary: Complete and UnabridgedThe perfect dictionary for advanced learners of French.Read more
Ça va ? Asking after othersIf you’re catching up with a French-speaking friend, old or new, you’ll probably want to ask them how they are, and vice versa. Here are a few suggestions to try!Read more
Unlock French with the Paul Noble methodThe Paul Noble Method: no books, no rote memorization, no chance of failure. Start with the Complete French Beginner's course, then follow up with French Next Steps.Read more
Understanding French verb tensesIn this short article, we explain and provide some examples of the most common tenses you'll come across.Read more
