Russian: напы́щенный (ru) (napýščennyj), эпата́жный (ru) (epatážnyj) (startling), цвети́стый (ru) (cvetístyj) (florid), я́ркий (ru) (járkij) (bright)
The royal poinciana (Delonix regia), a showy tropical tree.1919,W[illiam] Somerset Maugham,chapter 45, inThe Moon and Sixpence, [New York, N.Y.]: Grosset & Dunlap Publishers […], OCLC 365836:The schooners moored to the quay are trim and neat, the little town along the bay is white and urbane, and the flamboyants, scarlet against the blue sky, flaunt their colour like a cry of passion.
1913, Abbey of Saint-Ouen, article in Catholic Encyclopedia,The nave and central tower, more flamboyant in design, were finished early in the sixteenth century after the original plan.
1919,W[illiam] Somerset Maugham,chapter 45, inThe Moon and Sixpence, [New York, N.Y.]: Grosset & Dunlap Publishers […], OCLC 365836:The schooners moored to the quay are trim and neat, the little town along the bay is white and urbane, and the flamboyants, scarlet against the blue sky, flaunt their colour like a cry of passion.
The schooners moored to the quay are trim and neat, the little town along the bay is white and urbane, and the flamboyants, scarlet against the blue sky, flaunt their colour like a cry of passion.
1851 April 12,Bernhard-Smith, William John,Notes and Queries, volume s1-III, number 76, London: Bell & Daldy, ISSN 0029-3970, page 292:Ancient swords were frequently “flamboyant,” or with waved edges; more especially those used for purposes of state.The Dukes of Burgundy bore a two-handed sword of this form.Indeed, “flaming swords,” as they were called, were worn down to the times of our Charles II., and perhaps later.
Spanish: acacia f (Venezuela), acacia roja f (Colombia), árbol de fuego m (El Salvador), chivato m (Argentina, Paraguay), flamboyán m (Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico), framboyán m (Cuba), malinche m (Costa Rica, Nicaragua), pajarilla f (Bolivia), tabachín m (Mexico)
Borrowed from French flamboyant (“flaming, wavy”), present participle of flamboyer (“to flame, blaze”).
“flamboyant”, in Trésor de la langue française informatisé [Digitized Treasury of the French Language], 2012.
Spanish: extravagante (es), exuberante (es), vistoso (es), ostentoso (es), churrigueresco
1902, G. K. Chesterton, The Optimism of Byron, in Twelve Types,When we see some of the monstrous and flamboyant blossoms that enrich the equatorial woods, we do not feel that they are conflagrations of nature; silent explosions of her frightful energy. We simply find it hard to believe that they are not wax flowers grown under a glass case.
This page was last edited on 3 February 2023, at 16:39.
Borrowed from French flamboyant (“flaming, wavy”), participle of flamboyer (“to flame”), from Old French flamboier, from flambe (“flame”). The architectural style derives its name from the flame-like shapes in the tracery.
Of a blade: forged in a wavy, undulating pattern, like a flame-bladed sword or a kris.Synonym: serpentine1851 April 12,Bernhard-Smith, William John,Notes and Queries, volume s1-III, number 76, London: Bell & Daldy, ISSN 0029-3970, page 292:Ancient swords were frequently “flamboyant,” or with waved edges; more especially those used for purposes of state.The Dukes of Burgundy bore a two-handed sword of this form.Indeed, “flaming swords,” as they were called, were worn down to the times of our Charles II., and perhaps later.
1 English1.1 Alternative forms1.2 Etymology1.3 Pronunciation1.4 Adjective1.4.1 Derived terms1.4.2 Translations1.5 Noun1.5.1 Translations1.6 Further reading
1851 April 12,Bernhard-Smith, William John,Notes and Queries, volume s1-III, number 76, London: Bell & Daldy, ISSN 0029-3970, page 292:
Bulgarian: ярък (bg) (jarǎk), цветист (bg) (cvetist), пищен (bg) (pišten)
German: extravagant (de), prächtig (de), üppig (de), überladen (de), grell (de), schrill (de), auffallend (de), farbenprächtig (colors)
Russian: дело́никс короле́вский m (delóniks korolévskij), о́гненное де́рево n (ógnennoje dérevo)
(architecture) Referring to the final stage of French Gothic architecture from the 14th to the 16th centuries.1891, Sabine Baring-Gould, In Troubadour-Land: A Ramble in Provence and Languedoc, Chapter XIX: Avignon,S. Pierre is a flamboyant church, the details passing into Renaissance.1911, Bruges, article in Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition,The second is a chapel of two storeys, the lower dating from 1150, while the upper was rebuilt in the 15th century, and there is a rich Flamboyant entrance with a stairway (1533).1913, Abbey of Saint-Ouen, article in Catholic Encyclopedia,The nave and central tower, more flamboyant in design, were finished early in the sixteenth century after the original plan.
1962 May 12, Douglas MacArthur, Duty, honor, country,The unbelievers will say they are but words, but a slogan, but a flamboyant phrase.
1891, Sabine Baring-Gould, In Troubadour-Land: A Ramble in Provence and Languedoc, Chapter XIX: Avignon,S. Pierre is a flamboyant church, the details passing into Renaissance.
flamboyant (strong nominative masculine singular flamboyanter, comparative flamboyanter, superlative am flamboyantesten)
1911, Bruges, article in Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition,The second is a chapel of two storeys, the lower dating from 1150, while the upper was rebuilt in the 15th century, and there is a rich Flamboyant entrance with a stairway (1533).
Ancient swords were frequently “flamboyant,” or with waved edges; more especially those used for purposes of state.The Dukes of Burgundy bore a two-handed sword of this form.Indeed, “flaming swords,” as they were called, were worn down to the times of our Charles II., and perhaps later.
1919,W[illiam] Somerset Maugham,chapter 45, inThe Moon and Sixpence, [New York, N.Y.]: Grosset & Dunlap Publishers […], OCLC 365836:
This page was last edited on 21 May 2022, at 16:10.
Explore																											Recent Photos															Trending																	Events																							The Commons																						Flickr Galleries																						World Map																						Camera Finder																						Flickr Blog
Prints																																							The Print Shop										New																																									Prints & Wall Art																																							Photo Books
