"Characteristics of Matrix Structures, and Their Effects on Project Success"
The study of organizations includes a focus on optimising organizational structure. According to management science, most human organizations fall roughly into four types:[citation needed]
From a process-related perspective, an organization is viewed as an entity being (re-)organized, and the focus is on the organization as a set of tasks or actions.
Knight, Jack (1992). Institutions and social conflict. Cambridge University Press. pp. 1–3. ISBN 978-0-511-52817-0. OCLC 1127523562.
Organizations in society: a model framework and its application to organizations in agriculture
Organizations and institutions can be synonymous, but Jack Knight writes that organizations are a narrow version of institutions or represent a cluster of institutions; the two are distinct in the sense that organizations contain internal institutions (that govern interactions between the members of the organizations).[5]
^ Barnard, Chester I. (1938). The Functions of the Executive. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. OCLC 555075.
From an institutional perspective, an organization is viewed as a purposeful structure within a social context.
In prehistoric times, man was preoccupied with his personal security, maintenance, protection, and survival. Now man spends a major portion of his waking hours working for organizations. His need to identify with a community that provides security, protection, maintenance, and a feeling of belonging continues unchanged from prehistoric times. This need is met by the informal organization and its emergent, or unofficial, leaders.[8]
Social entrepreneurship, the process of pursuing innovative solutions to social problems.
Satir, Virginia (1967). Conjoint family therapy; a guide to theory and technique. Palo Alto, Calif: Science and Behavior Books. OCLC 187068.
Gibb, Cecil A. (1970). Leadership: Selected Readings. Harmondsworth: Penguin Books. ISBN 0140805176. OCLC 174777513.
A hierarchy exemplifies an arrangement with a leader who leads other individual members of the organization. This arrangement is often associated with the basis that there are enough to imagine a real pyramid, if there are not enough stone blocks to hold up the higher ones, gravity would irrevocably bring down the monumental structure.So one can imagine that if the leader does not have the support of his subordinates, the entire structure will collapse. Hierarchies were satirized in The Peter Principle (1969), a book that introduced hierarchiology and the saying that "in a hierarchy, every employee tends to rise to his level of incompetence."
Companies that utilize this organization type reflect a rather one-sided view of what goes on in ecology. It is also the case that a natural ecosystem has a natural border – ecoregions do not, in general, compete with one another in any way, but are very autonomous.
There are a variety of legal types of organizations, including corporations, governments, non-governmental organizations, political organizations, international organizations, armed forces, charities, not-for-profit corporations, partnerships, cooperatives, andeducational institutions, etc.
^ Knight, Jack (1992). Institutions and social conflict. Cambridge University Press. pp. 1–3. ISBN 978-0-511-52817-0. OCLC 1127523562.
Baligh, Henry H. (2006). Organization Structures: Theory and Design, Analysis and Prescription. Springer New York. ISBN 978-0387258478.
Economic approaches to organizations also take the division of labor as a starting point. The division of labor allows for (economies of) specialization. Increasing specialization necessitates coordination. From an economic point of view, markets and organizations are alternative coordination mechanisms for the execution of transactions.[7]
Complexity theory and organizations, the use of complexity theory in the field of strategic management and organizational studies.
^ a b c Knowles, Henry P.; Saxberg, Borje O. (1971). Personality and Leadership Behavior. Reading, Mass: Addison-Wesley Pub. Co. pp. 884–89. OCLC 118832.
^ a b Douma, Sytse; Schreuder, Hein (2013) [1991]. Economic Approaches to Organizations (5th ed.). Harlow: Pearson Education Limited. ISBN 978-0-273-73529-8.
Knowles, Henry P.; Saxberg, Borje O. (1971). Personality and Leadership Behavior. Reading, Mass: Addison-Wesley Pub. Co. pp. 884–89. OCLC 118832.
Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations.
Enterprise architecture, the conceptual model that defines the coalescence of organizational structure and organizational behavior.
March, James G.; Simon, Herbert A. (1958). Organizations. New York: Wiley. ISBN 0-471-56793-0. OCLC 1329335.
The pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline talks about functioning as this type of organization in this external article from The Guardian.By:Bastian Batac De Leon.
Handy, Charles (2005). Understanding Organizations (4th ed.). London: Penguin Books. ISBN 978-0-14-015603-4.
This organizational structure promotes internal competition.Inefficient components of the organization starve, while effective ones get more work. Everybody is paid for what they actually do, and so runs a tiny business that has to show a profit, or they are fired.
Contingency theory, a class of behavioral theories that claim that there is no best way to organize a corporation, to lead a company, or to make decisions.
Leaders emerge from within the structure of the informal organization. Their personal qualities, the demands of the situation, or a combination of these and other factors attract followers who accept their leadership within one or several overlay structures. Instead of the authority of position held by an appointed head or chief, the emergent leader wields influence or power. Influence is the ability of a person to gain cooperation from others by means of persuasion or control over rewards. Power is a stronger form of influence because it reflects a person's ability to enforce action through the control of a means of punishment.[8]
Among the theories that are or have been influential are:
Rogers, Carl R.; Roethlisberger, Fritz Jules (1990). Barriers and gateways to communication. Boston, Mass.: Harvard Business Review. OCLC 154085959.
Schnetler, Rohann; Steyn, Herman; Van Staden, Paul J. (23 February 2015). "Characteristics of Matrix Structures, and Their Effects on Project Success". The South African Journal of Industrial Engineering. 26 (1): 11. doi:10.7166/26-1-1096. ISSN 2224-7890.
Activity theory is the major theoretical influence, acknowledged by de Clodomir Santos de Morais in the development of Organization Workshop method.
^ Lui, Steven S.; Ngo, Hang-Yue (2004). "The Role of Trust and Contractual Safeguards on Cooperation in Non-equity Alliances". Journal of Management. 30 (4): 471–485. doi:10.1016/j.jm.2004.02.002. ISSN 0149-2063. S2CID 144788583.
Peter, Laurence J. and Raymond Hull. The Peter PrinciplePan Books 1970 ISBN 0-330-02519-8
An organization or organisation (Commonwealth English; see spelling differences), is an entity—such as a company, an institution, or an association—comprising one or more people and having a particular purpose.
The word is derived from the Greek word organon, which means tool or instrument, musical instrument, and organ.
Samson, D., Daft, R. (2005). Management: second Pacific Rim edition. Melbourne, Victoria: Thomson
^ Compare:Grande, Odd Torgier (1970). Organizations in society: a model framework and its application to organizations in agriculture. Cornell University. p. 164. Retrieved 8 December 2018. It is also necessary [615513925...] to identify social systems that are not organizations. Many of these are enormously important, but they lack an organization's purposive activity. Among the more conspicuous 'non-organizations' are races and ethnic groups (they have no programs), social classes (their collective identities are not unequivocal and their rosters not exact), cliques and playgroups (they lack a collective identity), interest groups such as 'liberals' or 'old-fashioned conservatives' (they have no rosters).
Compare:Grande, Odd Torgier (1970). Organizations in society: a model framework and its application to organizations in agriculture. Cornell University. p. 164. Retrieved 8 December 2018. It is also necessary [615513925...] to identify social systems that are not organizations. Many of these are enormously important, but they lack an organization's purposive activity. Among the more conspicuous 'non-organizations' are races and ethnic groups (they have no programs), social classes (their collective identities are not unequivocal and their rosters not exact), cliques and playgroups (they lack a collective identity), interest groups such as 'liberals' or 'old-fashioned conservatives' (they have no rosters).
Garbage Can Model, describes a model which disconnects problems, solutions, and decision-makers from each other.
Compare the concept of social groups, which may include non-organizations.[4]
4Leadership											Toggle Leadership subsection																					4.1Formal organizations																											4.2Informal organizations																											4.3The interplay between formal and informal organizations
This page was last edited on 9 February 2023, at 07:58 (UTC).
As an example, a company might have an individual with overall responsibility for products X and Y, and another individual with overall responsibility for engineering, quality control, etc. Therefore, subordinates responsible for quality control of project X will have two reporting lines. The United States aerospace industries were the first to officially use this organizational structure after it emerged in the early 1960s. [6]
2Structures											Toggle Structures subsection																					2.1Committees or juries																											2.2Ecologies																											2.3Matrix organization																											2.4Pyramids or hierarchical
Economic sociology, studies both the social effects and the social causes of various economic phenomena.
Coase, Ronald (1937). "The Nature of the Firm" Economica, 4(16), pp. 386–405.
^ a b Gibb, Cecil A. (1970). Leadership: Selected Readings. Harmondsworth: Penguin Books. ISBN 0140805176. OCLC 174777513.
Mintzberg, Henry (1981). "Organization Design: Fashion or Fit"Harvard Business Review (January February)
These consist of a group of peers who decide as a group, perhaps by voting. The difference between a jury and a committee is that the members of the committee are usually assigned to perform or lead further actions after the group comes to a decision, whereas members of a jury come to a decision. In common law countries, legal juries render decisions of guilt, liability, and quantify damages; juries are also used in athletic contests, book awards, and similar activities. Sometimes a selection committee functions like a jury. In the Middle Ages, juries in continental Europe were used to determine the law according to consensus among local notables.
A hybrid organization is a body that operates in both the public sector and the private sector simultaneously, fulfilling public duties and developing commercial market activities.
Marshak, Thomas (1987). "organization theory," The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics, v. 3, pp. 757–60.
What makes an organization recognized by the government is either filling out Incorporation (business) or recognition in the form of either societal pressure (ex: Advocacy group), causing concerns (ex: Resistance movement) or being considered the spokesperson of a group of people subject to negotiation (ex: the Polisario Front being recognized as the sole representative of the Sahrawi people and forming a partially recognized state.)
In the social sciences, organizations are the object of analysis for a number of disciplines, such as sociology, economics,[7] political science, psychology, management, and organizational communication. The broader analysis of organizations is commonly referred to as organizational structure, organizational studies, organizational behavior, or organization analysis. A number of different perspectives exist, some of which are compatible:
Actor–network theory, an approach to social theory and research, originating in the field of science studies, which treats objects as part of social networks.
Transaction cost theory, the idea that people begin to organize their production in firms when the transaction cost of coordinating production through the market exchange, given imperfect information, is greater than within the firm.
A leader in a formal, hierarchical organization, is appointed to a managerial position and has the right to command and enforce obedience by virtue of the authority of his position. However, he must possess adequate personal attributes to match his authority, because authority is only potentially available to him. In the absence of sufficient personal competence, a manager may be confronted by an emergent leader who can challenge his role in the organization and reduce it to that of a figurehead. However, only the authority of position has the backing of formal sanctions. It follows that whoever wields personal influence and power can legitimize this only by gaining a formal position in the hierarchy, with commensurate authority.[8]
^ Poppo, Laura; Zenger, Todd (2002). "Do formal contracts and relational governance function as substitutes or complements?". Strategic Management Journal. 23 (8): 707–725. doi:10.1002/smj.249. ISSN 1097-0266.
Scott, William Richard (2008). Institutions and Organizations (3rd ed.). London: Sage Publications Ltd. ISBN 978-1-4129-5090-9.
Lui, Steven S.; Ngo, Hang-Yue (2004). "The Role of Trust and Contractual Safeguards on Cooperation in Non-equity Alliances". Journal of Management. 30 (4): 471–485. doi:10.1016/j.jm.2004.02.002. ISSN 0149-2063. S2CID 144788583.
Committees are often the most reliable way to make decisions. Condorcet's jury theorem proved that if the average member votes better than a roll of dice, then adding more members increases the number of majorities that can come to a correct vote (however correctness is defined). The problem is that if the average member is subsequently worse than a roll of dice, the committee's decisions grow worse, not better; therefore, staffing is crucial.
An organization is defined by the elements that are part of it (who belongs to the organization and who does not?), its communication (which elements communicate and how do they communicate?), its autonomy (which changes are executed autonomously by the organization or its elements?), and its rules of action compared to outside events (what causes an organization to act as a collective actor?).
Weber's Ideal of Bureaucracy (refer to Max Weber's chapter on "Bureaucracy" in his book Economy and Society)
This organizational type assigns each worker two bosses in two different hierarchies. One hierarchy is "functional" and assures that each type of expert in the organization is well-trained, and measured by a boss who is a super-expert in the same field. The other direction is "executive" and tries to get projects completed using the experts. Projects might be organized by products, regions, customer types, or some other schemes.
Morgenstern, Julie (1998).Organizing from the Inside Out.Owl Books ISBN 0-8050-5649-1
Hewlett, Roderic. (2006). The Cognitive leader. Rowman & Littlefield Pub Inc.
Douma, Sytse; Schreuder, Hein (2013) [1991]. Economic Approaches to Organizations (5th ed.). Harlow: Pearson Education Limited. ISBN 978-0-273-73529-8.
In contrast to the appointed head or chief of an administrative unit, a leader emerges within the context of the informal organization that underlies the formal structure. The informal organization expresses the personal objectives and goals of the individual membership. Their objectives and goals may or may not coincide with those of the formal organization. The informal organization represents an extension of the social structures that generally characterize human life – the spontaneous emergence of groups and organizations as ends in themselves.[10]
Polisario Front being recognized as the sole representative of the Sahrawi people and forming a partially recognized state.)
Katz, Daniel; Kahn, Robert Louis (1966). The social psychology of organizations. New York: Wiley. OCLC 255184.
Barnard, Chester I. (1938). The Functions of the Executive. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. OCLC 555075.
Poppo, Laura; Zenger, Todd (2002). "Do formal contracts and relational governance function as substitutes or complements?". Strategic Management Journal. 23 (8): 707–725. doi:10.1002/smj.249. ISSN 1097-0266.
Parliamentary procedure, such as Robert's Rules of Order, helps prevent committees from engaging in lengthy discussions without reaching decisions.
As most organizations operate through a mix of formal and informal mechanisms, organization science scholars have paid attention to the type of interplay between formal and informal organizations. On the one hand, some have argued that formal and informal organizations operate as substitutes as one type of organization would decrease the advantages of using the other one. For instance, if parties trust each other the use of a formal contract is unnecessary or even detrimental to the relationship.[11] On the other hand, other scholars have suggested that formal and informal organizations can complement each other. For instance, formal mechanisms of control can pave the way for the development of relational norms.[12]
Organizations may also operate secretly or illegally in the case of secret societies, criminal organizations, and resistance movements. And in some cases may have obstacles from other organizations (ex: MLK's organization).[3]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Example of an voluntary association".
Principal–agent problem, concerns the difficulties in motivating one party (the "agent"), to act in the best interests of another (the "principal") rather than in his or her own interests
Handy, Charles (1990). Inside Organizations: 21 Ideas for Managers. London: BBC Books. ISBN 978-0-563-20830-3.
A voluntary association is an organization consisting of volunteers. Such organizations may be able to operate without legal formalities, depending on jurisdiction, including informal clubs or coordinating bodies with a goal in mind which they may express in the form of an manifesto, mission statement, or in an informal manner reflected in what they do because remember every action done by an organization both legal and illegal reflects a goal in mind.[1][2]
^ Schnetler, Rohann; Steyn, Herman; Van Staden, Paul J. (23 February 2015). "Characteristics of Matrix Structures, and Their Effects on Project Success". The South African Journal of Industrial Engineering. 26 (1): 11. doi:10.7166/26-1-1096. ISSN 2224-7890.
Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references.
Scientific management (mainly following Frederick W. Taylor), a theory of management that analyses and synthesizes workflows.
By coordinated and planned cooperation of the elements, the organization is able to solve tasks that lie beyond the abilities of the single element. The price paid by the elements is the limitation of the degrees of freedom of the elements. Advantages of organizations are enhancement (more of the same), addition (combination of different features), and extension. Disadvantages can be inertness (through coordination) and loss of interaction.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Example of an voluntary association".
Johnson, Richard Arvid (1976). Management, systems, and society : an introduction. Pacific Palisades, Calif.: Goodyear Pub. Co. ISBN 0-87620-540-6. OCLC 2299496.
From a functional perspective, the focus is on how entities like businesses or state authorities are used.
An organization that is established as a means for achieving defined objectives has been referred to as a formal organization. Its design specifies how goals are subdivided and reflected in subdivisions of the organization. Divisions, departments, sections, positions, jobs, and tasks make up this work structure.[9] Thus, the formal organization is expected to behave impersonally in regard to relationships with clients or with its members. According to Weber's definition, entry and subsequent advancement is by merit or seniority. Each employee receives a salary and enjoys a degree of tenure that safeguards him from the arbitrary influence of superiors or of powerful clients. The higher his position in the hierarchy, the greater his presumed expertise in adjudicating problems that may arise in the course of the work carried out at lower levels of the organization. It is this bureaucratic structure that forms the basis for the appointment of heads or chiefs of administrative subdivisions in the organization and endows them with the authority attached to their position.[10]
Sociology can be defined as the science of the institutions of modernity; specific institutions serve a function, akin to the individual organs of a coherent body. In the social and political sciences in general, an "organization" may be more loosely understood as the planned, coordinated, and purposeful action of human beings working through collective action to reach a common goal or construct a tangible product. This action is usually framed by formal membership and form (institutional rules). Sociology distinguishes the term organization into planned formal and unplanned informal (i.e. spontaneously formed) organizations. Sociology analyses organizations in the first line from an institutional perspective. In this sense, the organization is an enduring arrangement of elements. These elements and their actions are determined by rules so that a certain task can be fulfilled through a system of coordinated division of labor.
Critical management studies, a loose but extensive grouping of theoretically informed critiques of management, business, and organization, grounded originally in a critical theory perspective
"history flow: results". IBM Collaborative User Experience Research Group. 2003.
Community – group of interacting people with social cohesion, who may share common values.Community of action – community in which participants endeavor collaboratively to bring about change.Community of interest – community of people who share a common interest or passion. These people exchange ideas and thoughts about the given passion, but may know (or care) little about each other outside of this area. The common interest on Wikipedia is knowledge.Community of purpose – community that serves a functional need, smoothing the path of the member for a limited period surrounding a given activity. For example, researching a topic on Wikipedia.org, buying a car on autobytel.com, or antique collectors on icollector.com or individual.Virtual community – social network of individuals who interact through specific media, potentially crossing geographical and political boundaries in order to pursue mutual interests or goals.Online community – virtual community that exists online and whose members enable its existence through taking part in membership ritual. An online community can take the form of an information system where anyone can post content, such as a Bulletin board system or one where only a restricted number of people can initiate posts, such as Weblogs.Wiki community – users, especially the editors, of a particular wiki.
Encyclopedia – type of reference work or compendium holding a comprehensive summary of information from either all branches of knowledge or a particular branch of knowledge.[4] Encyclopedias are divided into articles or entries, which are usually accessed alphabetically by article name.[5] Encyclopedia entries are longer and more detailed than those in most dictionaries.[5]Online encyclopedia – large database of useful information, accessible via the World Wide Web.
^ Schiff, Stacy (31 July 2006). "Know It All". The New Yorker.
phoebe and HaeB (7 June 2010). ""Pending changes" trial to start on June 14". Wikipedia Signpost.
Reliability of Wikipedia – Wikipedia is open to anonymous and collaborative editing, so assessments of its reliability usually include examinations of how quickly false or misleading information is removed. An early study conducted by IBM researchers in 2003—two years following Wikipedia's establishment—found that "vandalism is usually repaired extremely quickly—so quickly that most users will never see its effects"[13] and concluded that Wikipedia had "surprisingly effective self-healing capabilities".[14]
For full-text search – Wikipedia uses Lucene, with extensive customization contributed by Robert Stojnic.
YAGO (Yet Another Great Ontology) – knowledge base developed at the Max Planck Institute for Computer Science in Saarbrücken. It is automatically extracted from Wikipedia and other sources. It includes knowledge about more than 10 million entities and contains more than 120 million facts about these entities.
Bomis – former dot-com company founded in 1996 by Jimmy Wales and Tim Shell. Its primary business was the sale of advertising on the Bomis.com search portal, and to provide support for the free encyclopedia projects Nupedia and Wikipedia.[31]
Nicholas G. Carr – in his 2005 blog essay titled "The Amorality of Web 2.0," he criticized the quality of volunteer Web 2.0 information projects such as Wikipedia and the blogosphere and argued that they may have a net negative effect on society by displacing more expensive professional alternatives.[43]
DNS proxies – WikiMedia Foundation's DNS proxy servers run PowerDNS. It's a DNS server program that runs under Unix (including Ubuntu). DNS stands for "domain name system".
Online encyclopedia – large database of useful information, accessible via the World Wide Web.
WikiTrust – assesses the credibility of content and author reputation of wiki articles using an automated algorithm. WikiTrust is a plug-in for servers using the MediaWiki platform, such as Wikipedia.
^ Viégas, Fernanda B.; Wattenberg, Martin; Dave, Kushal (2004). Studying Cooperation and Conflict between Authors with history flow Visualizations (PDF). Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems. Vienna. pp. 575–582. ISBN 978-1-58113-702-6.
^ Mossberg, Walt (28 September 2011). "Encyclopædia Britannica Now Fits Into an App". Wall Street Journal. The article mentions WikiNodes, while discussing the Britannica app, noting that "This kind of visual array of related items isn't a new idea. In fact, there is an iPad app called WikiNodes which does something similar for Wikipedia content."
Rossmeier, Vincent (24 March 2009). "Are we dangerously dependent on Wikipedia?". Salon.com.
Wikipedia – multilingual portal (contains links to all language editions of the project)
The Signpost – on-line community-written and community-edited newspaper, covering stories, events and reports related to Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation sister projects.
Outline of knowledge – outline about knowledge, and of the body of all human knowledge
Wikisource – online digital library of free content textual sources on a wiki, operated by the Wikimedia Foundation.
Andrew Lih – veteran Wikipedia contributor,[40] and in 2009 published the book The Wikipedia Revolution: How a Bunch of Nobodies Created the World's Greatest Encyclopedia. Lih has been interviewed in a variety of publications, including Salon.com[41] and The New York Times Freakonomics blog,[42] as an expert on Wikipedia.
Wikinews – free-content news source wiki and a project of the Wikimedia Foundation that works through collaborative journalism.
^ Cohen, Noam (7 June 2009). "The Wars of Words on Wikipedia's Outskirts". The New York Times.
"Draft entry, March 2007". Oxford English Dictionary. Dictionary.oed.com. Archived from the original on 2008-05-10.(subscription required)
^ Doctoroff, Ariel (22 June 2010). "Want To Waste An Hour (Or Three)? Go On A Wikirace". Huffington Post.
Jorge Cauz – president of Encyclopædia Britannica Inc.. In July 2006, in an interview in The New Yorker, he stated that Wikipedia would "decline into a hulking, mediocre mass of uneven, unreliable, and, many times, unreadable articles" and that "Wikipedia is to Britannica as American Idol is to the Juilliard School."[44]
Virtual community – social network of individuals who interact through specific media, potentially crossing geographical and political boundaries in order to pursue mutual interests or goals.Online community – virtual community that exists online and whose members enable its existence through taking part in membership ritual. An online community can take the form of an information system where anyone can post content, such as a Bulletin board system or one where only a restricted number of people can initiate posts, such as Weblogs.Wiki community – users, especially the editors, of a particular wiki.
Founders of WikipediaLarry Sanger – chief organizer (2001–2002) of Wikipedia. He moved on and founded Citizendium.[33][34]Jimmy Wales – historically cited as a co-founder of Wikipedia, though he has disputed the "co-" designation, declaring himself the sole founder. Wales serves on the board of trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation, the non-profit charitable organization he helped establish to operate Wikipedia, holding its board-appointed "community founder seat".
^ Read, Brock (28 May 2008). "6 Degrees of Wikipedia". The Chronicle of Higher Education.
9People in relation to Wikipedia											Toggle People in relation to Wikipedia subsection																					9.1Critics of Wikipedia
Arbitration Committee (ArbCom) – panel of editors elected by the Wikipedia community that imposes binding rulings with regard to disputes between editors of the online encyclopedia.[18] It acts as the court of last resort for disputes among editors.[19]
The Wikipedia Revolution: How a Bunch of Nobodies Created the World's Greatest Encyclopedia –
WikiTaxonomy – hierarchy of classes and instances (an ontology) automatically generated from Wikipedia's category system
Studying Cooperation and Conflict between Authors with history flow Visualizations
^ Sarno, David (30 September 2007). "Wikipedia wars erupt". Los Angeles Times.
Notability in English Wikipedia – metric used to determine topics meriting a dedicated encyclopedia article. It attempts to assess whether a topic has "gained sufficiently significant attention by the world at large and over a period of time"[11] as evidenced by significant coverage in reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic.[12]
Wiki-Watch – free page analysis tool that automatically assesses the reliability of Wikipedia articles in English and German. It produces a five-level evaluation score corresponding to its assessment of reliability.[28]
Johnson, L.; Adams, S. (2011). The Technology Outlook for UK Tertiary Education 2011-201 (PDF). NMC Horizon Report Regional Analyses. Austin, Texas: The New Media Consortium. ISBN 978-0-615-38209-8. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-10-05.
Database – organized collection of data. The data is typically organized to model aspects of reality in a way that supports processes requiring information. For example, modelling the availability of rooms in hotels in a way that supports finding a hotel with vacancies.Online database – database accessible from a network, including from the Internet (such as on a web page).
Kiwix – free and open-source offline web browser created by Emmanuel Engelhart and Renaud Gaudin in 2007. It was first launched to allow offline access to Wikipedia, but has since expanded to include other projects from the Wikimedia foundation as well as public domain texts from the Project Gutenberg.
^ Mengisen, Annika (16 June 2009). "By a Bunch of Nobodies: A Q&A With the Author of The Wikipedia Revolution". Freakonomics Blog. The New York Times Company.
Diffusion of innovations – process by which an innovation is communicated through certain channels over time among the members of a social system.
The Wikipedia Revolution: How a Bunch of Nobodies Created the World's Greatest Encyclopedia
"By a Bunch of Nobodies: A Q&A With the Author of The Wikipedia Revolution"
Outline of Wikipedia collected news and commentary at The Guardian
Jay, Paul (19 April 2007). "I, editor — The Wikipedia experiment". CBC News.
Community of Wikipedia – loosely-knit network of volunteers, sometimes known as "Wikipedians", who make contributions to the online encyclopedia, Wikipedia. A hierarchy exists whereby certain editors are elected to be given greater editorial control by other community members.Arbitration Committee (ArbCom) – panel of editors elected by the Wikipedia community that imposes binding rulings with regard to disputes between editors of the online encyclopedia.[18] It acts as the court of last resort for disputes among editors.[19]The Signpost – on-line community-written and community-edited newspaper, covering stories, events and reports related to Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation sister projects.
Citizendium – is a wiki for providing free knowledge where authors use their real, verified names.
Conservapedia – is an English-language wiki encyclopedia project written from an American conservative point of view.
^ Gumpert, David E. (5 September 2007). "A Case Study in Online Promotion". BusinessWeek.
Doctoroff, Ariel (22 June 2010). "Want To Waste An Hour (Or Three)? Go On A Wikirace". Huffington Post.
Wikidata – free and open knowledge base that can be read and edited by both humans and machines.
^ "Draft entry, March 2007". Oxford English Dictionary. Dictionary.oed.com. Archived from the original on 2008-05-10.(subscription required)
For serving up HTML pages – Squid and Varnish caching proxy servers in front of Apache HTTP Server. Apache processes requests via HTTP, the basic network protocol used to distribute information on the World Wide Web.
Wikibooks – Wiki hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation for the creation of free content textbooks and annotated texts that anyone can edit.
^ "What Conservapedia Is Really About". The Atlantic. 20 November 2007.
DBpedia (from "DB" for "database") – database built from the structured content of Wikipedia, including infoboxes, etc. It is made available for free on the World Wide Web. DBpedia allows users to semantically query relationships and properties associated with Wikipedia resources, including links to other related datasets.
^ Johnson, L.; Adams, S. (2011). The Technology Outlook for UK Tertiary Education 2011-201 (PDF). NMC Horizon Report Regional Analyses. Austin, Texas: The New Media Consortium. ISBN 978-0-615-38209-8. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-10-05.
Scholarpedia – is an English-language online wiki-based encyclopedia with features commonly associated with open-access online academic journals, which aims to have quality content.
Wikispecies – wiki-based online project supported by the Wikimedia Foundation. Its aim is to create a comprehensive free content catalogue of all species and is directed at scientists, rather than at the general public.
PyBal – Wikimedia Foundation's own system for back-end monitoring and failover.
Wikimedia Foundation – the non profit based in San Francisco, California, USA which was established to own and manage the trademarks and the servers for Wikipedia and its sister projects.
Linux Virtual Server (LVS) – Wikipedia uses LVS on commodity servers to load-balance incoming requests. LVS is also used as an internal load balancer to distribute MediaWiki and Lucene back-end requests.
"Andy Schlafly". Eagle Forum University. Archived from the original on 2014-10-06. Retrieved 2008-05-14.
Viégas, Fernanda B.; Wattenberg, Martin; Dave, Kushal (2004). Studying Cooperation and Conflict between Authors with history flow Visualizations (PDF). Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems. Vienna. pp. 575–582. ISBN 978-1-58113-702-6.
Online community – virtual community that exists online and whose members enable its existence through taking part in membership ritual. An online community can take the form of an information system where anyone can post content, such as a Bulletin board system or one where only a restricted number of people can initiate posts, such as Weblogs.Wiki community – users, especially the editors, of a particular wiki.
^ a b Anderson, Nate (21 November 2007). "Larry Sanger says "tipping point" approaching for expert-guided Citizendium wiki". Ars Technica.
Read, Brock (28 May 2008). "6 Degrees of Wikipedia". The Chronicle of Higher Education.
Infogalactic – is intended to have less alleged politically progressive, left-wing, or "politically correct" bias than Wikipedia, and to allow articles or statements that would not be allowed on Wikipedia because of problems with Wikipedia's policies on reliable sources, or due to alleged biases held by Wikipedia editors.
^ a b Eden, Terence (3 April 2011). "Introducing QRpedia".
^ phoebe and HaeB (7 June 2010). ""Pending changes" trial to start on June 14". Wikipedia Signpost.
For serving up image files – Squid and Varnish caching proxy servers in front of Sun Java System Web Server
Sarno, David (30 September 2007). "Wikipedia wars erupt". Los Angeles Times.
HardwareComputers – general purpose devices that can be programmed to carry out sets of arithmetic or logical operations automatically. A computer that is used to host server software is called a "server". It takes many servers to make Wikipedia available to the world. These servers are run by the WikiMedia Foundation.[15]
^ Mann, Selena (14 January 2011), New tool used to evaluate Wikipedia, Canada: IT World
Wikivoyage – free web-based travel guide for travel destinations and travel topics written by volunteer authors.
The preacher and the politician: Jeremiah Wright, Barack Obama, and race in America
Stöcker, Christian (31 August 2010). "Eine Weltmacht im Netz". Der Spiegel (in German).
Mitchell, Scott (July 2008), Easy Wiki Hosting, Scott Hanselman's blog, and Snagging Screens, MSDN Magazine
Proxy servers – act as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from other servers. A client connects to the proxy server, requesting some service, such as a file, connection, web page, or other resource available from a different server and the proxy server evaluates the request as a way to simplify and control its complexity. Proxies were invented to add structure and encapsulation to distributed systems. Today, most proxies are web proxies, facilitating access to content on the World Wide Web. The proxy servers used for Wikipedia are:For serving up HTML pages – Squid and Varnish caching proxy servers in front of Apache HTTP Server. Apache processes requests via HTTP, the basic network protocol used to distribute information on the World Wide Web.For serving up image files – Squid and Varnish caching proxy servers in front of Sun Java System Web ServerDNS proxies – WikiMedia Foundation's DNS proxy servers run PowerDNS. It's a DNS server program that runs under Unix (including Ubuntu). DNS stands for "domain name system".Load balancing –Linux Virtual Server (LVS) – Wikipedia uses LVS on commodity servers to load-balance incoming requests. LVS is also used as an internal load balancer to distribute MediaWiki and Lucene back-end requests.PyBal – Wikimedia Foundation's own system for back-end monitoring and failover.
Setting up Wikipedia on a home computerDownloading Wikipedia's database (all article text)Installing MediaWiki (the software that runs Wikipedia)
Knol – was a Google project that aimed to include user-written articles on a range of topics.
Schiff, Stacy (2 December 2006). "Know-alls". The Age. Fairfax Digital Network.
Mengisen, Annika (16 June 2009). "By a Bunch of Nobodies: A Q&A With the Author of The Wikipedia Revolution". Freakonomics Blog. The New York Times Company.
^ "Andy Schlafly". Eagle Forum University. Archived from the original on 2014-10-06. Retrieved 2008-05-14.
Gay Nigger Association of America – anti-blogging Internet trolling organization. On Wikipedia, members of the group created a page about themselves, while adhering to every rule of Wikipedia in order to use the system against itself.[50]
XOWA – open-source application written primarily in Java by anonymous developers, intended for users who wish to run their own copy of Wikipedia, or any other compatible Wiki offline without an internet connection. XOWA is compatible with Microsoft Windows, OSX, Linux and Android.
Mossberg, Walt (28 September 2011). "Encyclopædia Britannica Now Fits Into an App". Wall Street Journal. The article mentions WikiNodes, while discussing the Britannica app, noting that "This kind of visual array of related items isn't a new idea. In fact, there is an iPad app called WikiNodes which does something similar for Wikipedia content."
Wikibu – assesses the reliability of German Wikipedia articles.[29][30] It was originally designed for use in schools to improve information literacy.[29]
Jimmy Wales – historically cited as a co-founder of Wikipedia, though he has disputed the "co-" designation, declaring himself the sole founder. Wales serves on the board of trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation, the non-profit charitable organization he helped establish to operate Wikipedia, holding its board-appointed "community founder" seat.[citation needed]
^ Alavi, Bettina; Demantowsky, Marko; Paul, Gerhard, eds. (2010). Zeitgeschichte- Medien- Historische Bildung. p. 287. ISBN 978-3-89971-653-5.
Diffusion – process by which a new idea or new product is accepted by the market. The rate of diffusion is the speed that the new idea spreads from one consumer to the next. In economics it is more often named "technological change".
Commons – online repository of free-use images, sound and other media files, hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation.
Community of interest – community of people who share a common interest or passion. These people exchange ideas and thoughts about the given passion, but may know (or care) little about each other outside of this area. The common interest on Wikipedia is knowledge.
Structure of WikipediaList of Wikipedias – Wikipedia is implemented in many languages. As of April 2018, there were 304 Wikipedias, of which 294 are active.[9]Logo of Wikipedia – unfinished globe constructed from jigsaw pieces—some pieces are still missing at the top—inscribed with glyphs from many different writing systems.Articles – written works published in a print or electronic medium. Each Wikipedia is divided into many articles, with each article focusing on a particular topic.
Load balancing –Linux Virtual Server (LVS) – Wikipedia uses LVS on commodity servers to load-balance incoming requests. LVS is also used as an internal load balancer to distribute MediaWiki and Lucene back-end requests.PyBal – Wikimedia Foundation's own system for back-end monitoring and failover.
"List of Wikipedias". {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ "history flow: results". IBM Collaborative User Experience Research Group. 2003.
Hartmann, R. R. K.; James, Gregory; Gregory James (1998). Dictionary of Lexicography. Routledge. p. 48. ISBN 978-0-415-14143-7. Retrieved July 27, 2010.
List of Wikipedias – Wikipedia has spread around the world, being made available to people in their native tongues. As of April 2018, there were 299 Wikipedias.
"Larry Sanger says "tipping point" approaching for expert-guided Citizendium wiki"
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Wikipedia is 20, and its reputation has never been higher". The Economist. January 9, 2021. Archived from the original on 2022-12-31. Retrieved 2021-02-25.
Jimmy Wales – historically cited as a co-founder of Wikipedia, though he has disputed the "co-" designation, declaring himself the sole founder. Wales serves on the board of trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation, the non-profit charitable organization he helped establish to operate Wikipedia, holding its board-appointed "community founder seat".
"Interview With Nick Doody and Matt Kirshen". British Comedy Guide. Retrieved July 31, 2009.
Distributed object storage – distributed objects are software modules that are designed to work together, but reside either in multiple computers connected via a network. One object sends a message to another object in a remote machine to perform some task.Ceph –Swift –
"The Children's Museum of Indianapolis Creates New Learning Opportunities through Wikipedian in Residence"
Wikipedia Signpost – on-line community-written and community-edited newspaper, covering stories, events and reports related to Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation sister projects.
Computer technology that makes Wikipedia work: Servers installed in Ashburn, Virginia (US)HardwareComputers – general purpose devices that can be programmed to carry out sets of arithmetic or logical operations automatically. A computer that is used to host server software is called a "server". It takes many servers to make Wikipedia available to the world. These servers are run by the WikiMedia Foundation.[15]Software – Wikipedia is powered by the following software on WikiMedia Foundation's computers (servers). It takes all of these to make Wikipedia pages available on the World Wide Web:Operating systems used on WikiMedia Foundation's servers:Ubuntu Server – used on all Wikipedia servers except those used for image file storageSolaris – used on Wikipedia's image file storage serversMediaWiki – main web application that makes Wikipedia work. It's a free web-based wiki software application developed by the Wikimedia Foundation (WMF), written in PHP, that is used to run all of WMF's projects, including Wikipedia. Numerous other wikis around the world also use it.Content storage – Wikipedia's content (it's articles and other pages) are stored in MariaDB databases.[16] WikiMedia Foundation's wikis are grouped into clusters, and each cluster is served by several MariaDB servers, in a single-master configuration.Distributed object storage – distributed objects are software modules that are designed to work together, but reside either in multiple computers connected via a network. One object sends a message to another object in a remote machine to perform some task.Ceph –Swift –Proxy servers – act as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from other servers. A client connects to the proxy server, requesting some service, such as a file, connection, web page, or other resource available from a different server and the proxy server evaluates the request as a way to simplify and control its complexity. Proxies were invented to add structure and encapsulation to distributed systems. Today, most proxies are web proxies, facilitating access to content on the World Wide Web. The proxy servers used for Wikipedia are:For serving up HTML pages – Squid and Varnish caching proxy servers in front of Apache HTTP Server. Apache processes requests via HTTP, the basic network protocol used to distribute information on the World Wide Web.For serving up image files – Squid and Varnish caching proxy servers in front of Sun Java System Web ServerDNS proxies – WikiMedia Foundation's DNS proxy servers run PowerDNS. It's a DNS server program that runs under Unix (including Ubuntu). DNS stands for "domain name system".Load balancing –Linux Virtual Server (LVS) – Wikipedia uses LVS on commodity servers to load-balance incoming requests. LVS is also used as an internal load balancer to distribute MediaWiki and Lucene back-end requests.PyBal – Wikimedia Foundation's own system for back-end monitoring and failover.CachingMemcached – Wikipedia uses Memcached for caching of database query and computation results.For full-text search – Wikipedia uses Lucene, with extensive customization contributed by Robert Stojnic.Wikimedia configuration files[17]Setting up Wikipedia on a home computerDownloading Wikipedia's database (all article text)Installing MediaWiki (the software that runs Wikipedia)
^ Wikipedia contributors (18 October 2011). "Wikipedia: Notability". Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. {{cite encyclopedia}}: |author= has generic name (help)
^ Schiff, Stacy (2 December 2006). "Know-alls". The Age. Fairfax Digital Network.
"Wikipedia Adopts MariaDB — Wikimedia blog" (text/html). blog.wikimedia.org. Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. 2013-04-22. Retrieved 2014-07-20.
Wiktionary – multilingual, web-based project to create a free content dictionary, available in 158 languages, run by the Wikimedia Foundation.
Wiki community – users, especially the editors, of a particular wiki.
Wikipedia contributors (18 October 2011). "Wikipedia: Notability". Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. {{cite encyclopedia}}: |author= has generic name (help)
The World and Wikipedia: How We are Editing Reality –
MediaWiki – main web application that makes Wikipedia work. It's a free web-based wiki software application developed by the Wikimedia Foundation (WMF), written in PHP, that is used to run all of WMF's projects, including Wikipedia. Numerous other wikis around the world also use it.
^ Stecker, Frederick (2011), The Podium, the Pulpit, and the Republicans: How Presidential Candidates Use Religious Language in American Political Debate, ABC-CLIO
^ Stuckman, Jeff; Purtilo, James (2009). "Measuring the wikisphere". Proceedings of the 5th International Symposium on Wikis and Open Collaboration: 1. doi:10.1145/1641309.1641326. ISBN 978-1-60558-730-1. S2CID 17770818.
2Implementation of Wikipedia											Toggle Implementation of Wikipedia subsection																					2.1Wikipedia community
^ "The brains behind Uncyclopedia". .net. 3 May 2007. Archived from the original on 1 December 2007.
Mann, Selena (14 January 2011), New tool used to evaluate Wikipedia, Canada: IT World
Tabb, Kathryn. "Authority and Authorship in a 21st-Century Encyclopaedia and a 'Very Mysterious Foundation'" (PDF). ESharp (12: Technology and Humanity). ISSN 1742-4542.
"Want To Waste An Hour (Or Three)? Go On A Wikirace"
7History of Wikipedia											Toggle History of Wikipedia subsection																					7.1Wikipedia-inspired projects
Community of action – community in which participants endeavor collaboratively to bring about change.
^ Tabb, Kathryn. "Authority and Authorship in a 21st-Century Encyclopaedia and a 'Very Mysterious Foundation'" (PDF). ESharp (12: Technology and Humanity). ISSN 1742-4542.
Lih, Andrew (17 March 2009). The Wikipedia Revolution: How a Bunch of Nobodies Created the World's Greatest Encyclopedia. Cambridge, UK: Hyperion. pp. 170–171. ISBN 978-1-4001-1076-6. What were some ways to troll and cause trouble? Create an article about something extremely controversial and offensive, but otherwise adhere to every rule of Wikipedia and use the system against itself. This was the case with creating an article that had an intentionally offensive name, the Gay Niggers Association of America. GNAA was a name that caused immediate alarm in anyone with a semblance of good taste. It was a phenomenon for many years in the online tech communities, as legions of trolls attempted to have an article in Wikipedia about the mischievous group. It's not clear a defined group ever existed as GNAA. Supposed GNAA "members" were simply troublemakers online who unified under a common moniker in an effort to disrupt Wikipedia for amusement.
Wikiracing – game using the online encyclopedia Wikipedia which focuses on traversing links from one page to another.[38] The average number of links separating any two Wikipedia pages is 3.67.[39]
Content storage – Wikipedia's content (it's articles and other pages) are stored in MariaDB databases.[16] WikiMedia Foundation's wikis are grouped into clusters, and each cluster is served by several MariaDB servers, in a single-master configuration.
^ Rossmeier, Vincent (24 March 2009). "Are we dangerously dependent on Wikipedia?". Salon.com.
^ "wiki", Encyclopædia Britannica, vol. 1, London: Encyclopædia Britannica.Inc., 2007, retrieved 2008-04-10
Wikiquote – freely available collection of quotations from prominent people, books, films and proverbs, with appropriate attributions.
Ubuntu Server – used on all Wikipedia servers except those used for image file storage
Gumpert, David E. (5 September 2007). "A Case Study in Online Promotion". BusinessWeek.
Articles – written works published in a print or electronic medium. Each Wikipedia is divided into many articles, with each article focusing on a particular topic.
Stuckman, Jeff; Purtilo, James (2009). "Measuring the wikisphere". Proceedings of the 5th International Symposium on Wikis and Open Collaboration: 1. doi:10.1145/1641309.1641326. ISBN 978-1-60558-730-1. S2CID 17770818.
"Wikipedia:Pending changes/Request for Comment February 2011". Wikimedia Foundation. 10 June 2011.
Computers – general purpose devices that can be programmed to carry out sets of arithmetic or logical operations automatically. A computer that is used to host server software is called a "server". It takes many servers to make Wikipedia available to the world. These servers are run by the WikiMedia Foundation.[15]
History of Wikipedia – Wikipedia was formally launched on 15 January 2001 by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger, using the concept and technology of a wiki pioneered by Ward Cunningham. Initially, Wikipedia was created to complement Nupedia, an online encyclopedia project edited solely by experts, by providing additional draft articles and ideas for it. Wikipedia quickly overtook Nupedia, becoming a global project in multiple languages and inspiring a wide range of additional reference projects.
^ "List of Wikipedias". {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Content management on Wikipedia – processes for the collection, managing, and publishing of information on WikipediaDeletionism and inclusionism in Wikipedia – opposing philosophies of editors of Wikipedia concerning the appropriate scope of the encyclopedia, and the appropriate point for a topic to be included as an encyclopedia article or be "deleted".[10]Notability in English Wikipedia – metric used to determine topics meriting a dedicated encyclopedia article. It attempts to assess whether a topic has "gained sufficiently significant attention by the world at large and over a period of time"[11] as evidenced by significant coverage in reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic.[12]Reliability of Wikipedia – Wikipedia is open to anonymous and collaborative editing, so assessments of its reliability usually include examinations of how quickly false or misleading information is removed. An early study conducted by IBM researchers in 2003—two years following Wikipedia's establishment—found that "vandalism is usually repaired extremely quickly—so quickly that most users will never see its effects"[13] and concluded that Wikipedia had "surprisingly effective self-healing capabilities".[14]Vandalism on Wikipedia – the act of editing the project in a malicious manner that is intentionally disruptive. Vandalism includes the addition, removal, or other modification of the text or other material that is either humorous, nonsensical, a hoax, spam or promotion of a subject, or that is of an offensive, humiliating, or otherwise degrading in nature. There are various measures taken by Wikipedia to prevent or reduce the amount of vandalism.
Operating systems used on WikiMedia Foundation's servers:Ubuntu Server – used on all Wikipedia servers except those used for image file storageSolaris – used on Wikipedia's image file storage servers
Kiwix – free program used to view Wikipedia offline (no Internet connection). This is done by reading the content of the project stored in a file of the ZIM format, which contains the compressed contents of Wikipedia. Kiwix is designed for computers without Internet access, and in particular, computers in schools in the Third World, where Internet service is scant.
"wiki", Encyclopædia Britannica, vol. 1, London: Encyclopædia Britannica.Inc., 2007, retrieved 2008-04-10
"Uncyclopedia Babel". Uncyclopedia. Archived from the original (Wiki) on 2013-07-22. Retrieved 2008-04-20.
^ "Frequently asked questions". Wikimedia Foundation. Retrieved 2023-01-23.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"What Conservapedia Is Really About". The Atlantic. 20 November 2007.
^ "Interview With Nick Doody and Matt Kirshen". British Comedy Guide. Retrieved July 31, 2009.
Weingarten, Gene (12 September 2010). "The book on Gene: It's less than you expect". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on 2010-11-11.
Memcached – Wikipedia uses Memcached for caching of database query and computation results.
"Encyclopedia". Archived from the original on 2007-08-03. Glossary of Library Terms. Riverside City College, Digital Library/Learning Resource Center. Retrieved on: November 17.2007.
Reference work – compendium of information, usually of a specific type, compiled in a book for ease of reference. That is, the information is intended to be quickly found when needed. Reference works are usually referred to for particular pieces of information, rather than read beginning to end. The writing style used in these works is informative; the authors avoid use of the first person, and emphasize facts.Encyclopedia – type of reference work or compendium holding a comprehensive summary of information from either all branches of knowledge or a particular branch of knowledge.[4] Encyclopedias are divided into articles or entries, which are usually accessed alphabetically by article name.[5] Encyclopedia entries are longer and more detailed than those in most dictionaries.[5]Online encyclopedia – large database of useful information, accessible via the World Wide Web.
Vandalism on Wikipedia – the act of editing the project in a malicious manner that is intentionally disruptive. Vandalism includes the addition, removal, or other modification of the text or other material that is either humorous, nonsensical, a hoax, spam or promotion of a subject, or that is of an offensive, humiliating, or otherwise degrading in nature. There are various measures taken by Wikipedia to prevent or reduce the amount of vandalism.
Logo of Wikipedia – unfinished globe constructed from jigsaw pieces—some pieces are still missing at the top—inscribed with glyphs from many different writing systems.
^ "Uncyclopedia Babel". Uncyclopedia. Archived from the original (Wiki) on 2013-07-22. Retrieved 2008-04-20.
^ a b Jay, Paul (19 April 2007). "I, editor — The Wikipedia experiment". CBC News.
Software – Wikipedia is powered by the following software on WikiMedia Foundation's computers (servers). It takes all of these to make Wikipedia pages available on the World Wide Web:Operating systems used on WikiMedia Foundation's servers:Ubuntu Server – used on all Wikipedia servers except those used for image file storageSolaris – used on Wikipedia's image file storage serversMediaWiki – main web application that makes Wikipedia work. It's a free web-based wiki software application developed by the Wikimedia Foundation (WMF), written in PHP, that is used to run all of WMF's projects, including Wikipedia. Numerous other wikis around the world also use it.Content storage – Wikipedia's content (it's articles and other pages) are stored in MariaDB databases.[16] WikiMedia Foundation's wikis are grouped into clusters, and each cluster is served by several MariaDB servers, in a single-master configuration.Distributed object storage – distributed objects are software modules that are designed to work together, but reside either in multiple computers connected via a network. One object sends a message to another object in a remote machine to perform some task.Ceph –Swift –Proxy servers – act as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from other servers. A client connects to the proxy server, requesting some service, such as a file, connection, web page, or other resource available from a different server and the proxy server evaluates the request as a way to simplify and control its complexity. Proxies were invented to add structure and encapsulation to distributed systems. Today, most proxies are web proxies, facilitating access to content on the World Wide Web. The proxy servers used for Wikipedia are:For serving up HTML pages – Squid and Varnish caching proxy servers in front of Apache HTTP Server. Apache processes requests via HTTP, the basic network protocol used to distribute information on the World Wide Web.For serving up image files – Squid and Varnish caching proxy servers in front of Sun Java System Web ServerDNS proxies – WikiMedia Foundation's DNS proxy servers run PowerDNS. It's a DNS server program that runs under Unix (including Ubuntu). DNS stands for "domain name system".Load balancing –Linux Virtual Server (LVS) – Wikipedia uses LVS on commodity servers to load-balance incoming requests. LVS is also used as an internal load balancer to distribute MediaWiki and Lucene back-end requests.PyBal – Wikimedia Foundation's own system for back-end monitoring and failover.CachingMemcached – Wikipedia uses Memcached for caching of database query and computation results.For full-text search – Wikipedia uses Lucene, with extensive customization contributed by Robert Stojnic.Wikimedia configuration files[17]
Alavi, Bettina; Demantowsky, Marko; Paul, Gerhard, eds. (2010). Zeitgeschichte- Medien- Historische Bildung. p. 287. ISBN 978-3-89971-653-5.
^ Weingarten, Gene (12 September 2010). "The book on Gene: It's less than you expect". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on 2010-11-11.
^ "Encyclopedia". Archived from the original on 2007-08-03. Glossary of Library Terms. Riverside City College, Digital Library/Learning Resource Center. Retrieved on: November 17.2007.
Stecker, Frederick (2011), The Podium, the Pulpit, and the Republicans: How Presidential Candidates Use Religious Language in American Political Debate, ABC-CLIO
Conservapedia[45][46][47] English-language wiki project started in 2006 by homeschool teacher and attorney Andy Schlafly, son of conservative activist Phyllis Schlafly,[48][49] to counter what he called the liberal bias of Wikipedia.
WikiNodes – app for the Apple iPad for browsing Wikipedia using a radial treeapproach to visualize how articles and subsections of articles are interrelated. It is a visual array of related items (articles or sections of an article), which spread on the screen, as a spiderweb of icons.[27]
Online database – database accessible from a network, including from the Internet (such as on a web page).
Nupedia – the predecessor of Wikipedia. Nupedia was an English-language Web-based encyclopedia that lasted from March 2000[32] until September 2003. Its articles were written by experts and licensed as free content. It was founded by Jimmy Wales and underwritten by Bomis, with Larry Sanger as editor-in-chief.
Flagged Revisions – software extension to the MediaWiki wiki software that allows moderation of edits to Wiki pages. It was developed by the Wikimedia Foundation for use on Wikipedia and similar wikis hosted on its servers. On June 14, 2010, English Wikipedia began a 2-month trial of a similar feature known as pending changes.[36] In May 2011, this feature was removed indefinitely from all articles, after a discussion among English Wikipedia editors.[37]
Cohen, Noam (7 June 2009). "The Wars of Words on Wikipedia's Outskirts". The New York Times.
This page was last edited on 9 March 2023, at 03:53 (UTC).
Anderson, Nate (21 November 2007). "Larry Sanger says "tipping point" approaching for expert-guided Citizendium wiki". Ars Technica.
Wikipedia mobile phone portal Archived 2005-01-31 at the Wayback Machine
Deletionism and inclusionism in Wikipedia – opposing philosophies of editors of Wikipedia concerning the appropriate scope of the encyclopedia, and the appropriate point for a topic to be included as an encyclopedia article or be "deleted".[10]
"Frequently asked questions". Wikimedia Foundation. Retrieved 2023-01-23.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Mitchell, Scott (July 2008), Easy Wiki Hosting, Scott Hanselman's blog, and Snagging Screens, MSDN Magazine
^ a b Hartmann, R. R. K.; James, Gregory; Gregory James (1998). Dictionary of Lexicography. Routledge. p. 48. ISBN 978-0-415-14143-7. Retrieved July 27, 2010.
Murat Bardakçı – on Turkish television, he declared that Wikipedia should be banned.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Wikipedia is 20, and its reputation has never been higher". The Economist. January 9, 2021. Archived from the original on 2022-12-31. Retrieved 2021-02-25.
"The brains behind Uncyclopedia". .net. 3 May 2007. Archived from the original on 1 December 2007.
^ "Wikipedia:Pending changes/Request for Comment February 2011". Wikimedia Foundation. 10 June 2011.
CachingMemcached – Wikipedia uses Memcached for caching of database query and computation results.
Schiff, Stacy (31 July 2006). "Know It All". The New Yorker.
^ Stöcker, Christian (31 August 2010). "Eine Weltmacht im Netz". Der Spiegel (in German).
"Wikipedia is 20, and its reputation has never been higher"
4.3Third-party software related to Wikipedia																								4.3.1Mobile apps																											4.3.2Reliability analysis programs
QRpedia – mobile Web-based system which uses QR codes to deliver Wikipedia articles to users, in their preferred language.[24][25][26] The QRpedia server uses Wikipedia's API[24] to determine whether there is a version of the specified Wikipedia article in the language used by the device, and if so, returns it in a mobile-friendly format. If there is no version of the article available in the preferred language, then the QRpedia server performs a search for the article title on the relevant language's Wikipedia, and returns the results.
Wikiversity – Wikimedia Foundation project which supports learning communities, their learning materials, and resulting activities.
Anon (19 August 2011). "The Children's Museum of Indianapolis Creates New Learning Opportunities through Wikipedian in Residence". The Children's Museum of Indianapolis. Archived from the original on 29 March 2012.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and a topical guide to Wikipedia:
Community of purpose – community that serves a functional need, smoothing the path of the member for a limited period surrounding a given activity. For example, researching a topic on Wikipedia.org, buying a car on autobytel.com, or antique collectors on icollector.com or individual.
List of Wikipedias – Wikipedia is implemented in many languages. As of April 2018, there were 304 Wikipedias, of which 294 are active.[9]
"Authority and Authorship in a 21st-Century Encyclopaedia and a 'Very Mysterious Foundation'"
Books LLC – publishes print-on-demand paperback and downloadable compilations of English texts and documents from open knowledge sources such as Wikipedia.[20]
Henryk Batuta hoax – hoax perpetrated on the Polish Wikipedia in the form of an article about Henryk Batuta (born Izaak Apfelbaum), a fictional socialist revolutionary and Polish Communist. The fake biography said Batuta was born in Odessa in 1898 and participated in the Russian Civil War. The article was created on November 8, 2004, and exposed as a hoax 15 months later when on February 1, 2006, it was listed for deletion.
^ Anon (19 August 2011). "The Children's Museum of Indianapolis Creates New Learning Opportunities through Wikipedian in Residence". The Children's Museum of Indianapolis. Archived from the original on 29 March 2012.
Interpedia – an early proposal for a collaborative Internet encyclopedia
^ "Wikipedia Adopts MariaDB — Wikimedia blog" (text/html). blog.wikimedia.org. Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. 2013-04-22. Retrieved 2014-07-20.
Larry Sanger – chief organizer (2001–2002) of Wikipedia. He moved on and founded Citizendium.[33][34]
^ Lih, Andrew (17 March 2009). The Wikipedia Revolution: How a Bunch of Nobodies Created the World's Greatest Encyclopedia. Cambridge, UK: Hyperion. pp. 170–171. ISBN 978-1-4001-1076-6. What were some ways to troll and cause trouble? Create an article about something extremely controversial and offensive, but otherwise adhere to every rule of Wikipedia and use the system against itself. This was the case with creating an article that had an intentionally offensive name, the Gay Niggers Association of America. GNAA was a name that caused immediate alarm in anyone with a semblance of good taste. It was a phenomenon for many years in the online tech communities, as legions of trolls attempted to have an article in Wikipedia about the mischievous group. It's not clear a defined group ever existed as GNAA. Supposed GNAA "members" were simply troublemakers online who unified under a common moniker in an effort to disrupt Wikipedia for amusement.
Organizing model, a broad conception of organizations such as trade unions
This page was last edited on 11 February 2020, at 21:50 (UTC).
Professional organizing, an industry build around creating organizational systems for individuals and businesses
Community organizing, in which communities come together to act in their shared self-interest
Organizing vision, a term developed by E. Burton Swanson and Neil Ramiller that defines how a vision is formed, a vision of how to organize structures and processes in regard to an information systems innovation
Organizing principle, a core assumption from which everything else by proximity can derive a classification or a value
Organizing (management), a process of coordinating task goals and activities to resources
Organizing Institute, a unit within the Organizing and Field Services Department of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)
Union organizing, the process of establishing trade unionsOrganizing Institute, a unit within the Organizing and Field Services Department of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)Organizing model, a broad conception of organizations such as trade unions
