"Patrick McGrath finds Dublin is gothic territory in Neil Jordan's novel", The Guardian, Saturday 15 January 2011 Retrieved 17 Nov 2013
Patrick McGrath in The Guardian praises Jordan's depiction of Dublin characters and places, particularly Kevin's parents "These familial scenes are deftly, warmly done, and here the novel breathes with life" but he is less impressed by the more gothic aspects of the story "The problem with Mistaken is a doom-laden cloud of insinuation that hovers over the story and saps its vitality... In terms of its manipulation of gothic tropes, Mistaken fails to arouse the deep unease and sudden, horrified recognition we require of the genre" he concludes "There's a good slim Dublin novel trying to claw its way out of this book. The pages often feel clogged. Effects are strained after rather than happened upon. The best energies of the novel are smothered by gothic innuendo, where clarity and brevity would have served it better'.[4]
^ "Neil Jordan, great Irish novelist" The Irish Times. 2010-12-24. Retrieved 2011-01-04.
2011, UK, John Murray, ISBN 1-84854-419-7, Pub date 23 Jun 2011, Paperback
The Irish Independent is full of praise, concluding "This is the best novel I've read about Dublin in many years -- beautifully written, funny and touching in its remembered details and haunting in its suggestiveness about who we are, might have been or might yet be as we make our befuddled yet hopeful way through life."[6]
"Neil Jordan, great Irish novelist" The Irish Times. 2010-12-24. Retrieved 2011-01-04.
^ "Double Take", Film Director Neil Jordan’s Novel Mistaken, Published: February 3, 2012 Retrieved 18 Nov 2013
"Double Take", Film Director Neil Jordan’s Novel Mistaken, Published: February 3, 2012
Mistaken is a novel by the Irish novelist and filmmaker Neil Jordan published in 2011[1] by John Murray in the UK and Soft Skull Press in the US.[2]It won both the Irish Book Award and Kerry Group Irish Fiction Award.[3]
The Scotsman is also very positive, "Two things make this tale a stand-out read: First, Jordan's restraint; he avoids a plot in which Kevin or Gerald commits a crime, and for which the other will take the punishment (we come close in a scene in New York, when, Kevin, playing the part of Gerald, partakes in a death) which would have skewed the dramatic landscape. The other coup is the novel's structure - it is essentially an intimate revelation, by Kevin to Emily, Gerald's daughter, after the two have become acquainted at Gerald's graveside in the story's opening gambit. Emily learns about the dead father's other life while discovering new and deep affinity with a man she scarcely knows yet has known forever. How they are linked - by more than mere words - is eventually told. The ploy gives the novel perspective, and the words evolve into a spell that makes the story unputdownable."[7]
"Patrick McGrath finds Dublin is gothic territory in Neil Jordan's novel", The Guardian, Saturday 15 January 2011
2011, US, Soft Skull Press, ISBN 1-59376-433-2, Pub date 20 Dec 2011, Paperback
Cían Nihill (2 June 2011). "Neil Jordan wins major literary award for second time". The Irish Times. Retrieved 23 September 2011.
"Double Take", Film Director Neil Jordan’s Novel Mistaken, Published: February 3, 2012 Retrieved 18 Nov 2013
Helen Brown interviews Irish filmaker [sic] and novelist Neil Jordan about his new novel concerning doppelgangers, Mistaken
This page was last edited on 13 November 2022, at 02:17 (UTC).
^ "Patrick McGrath finds Dublin is gothic territory in Neil Jordan's novel", The Guardian, Saturday 15 January 2011 Retrieved 17 Nov 2013
2011, UK, John Murray, ISBN 1-84854-418-9, Pub date 06 Jan 2011, Hardback
Caryn James of The New York Times however praises these same gothic elements: "Vampires, secrets, the mysteries of identity: the obsessions that run through the director Neil Jordan’s films are at the center of his beautifully enigmatic fifth novel...it is the vampire next door whose menacing presence runs most powerfully through the novel". Her only criticisms relate to the ending, "Most of this book is so good, so shimmering with mysteries, that it’s a disappointment when the explanations tumble in. The question of Kevin’s identity is resolved in a banal, practical way, and what happens during his shattering trip to New York seems too lurid and over-the-top for a novel that holds such subtleties. If this were a movie, you might guess that some producer had pressured Jordan to add more drama and a neat clarification — an odd idea, because Jordan's films never underestimate the audience. And almost to the end neither does Mistaken, which shines with a darkly luminous glow".[5]
^ Cían Nihill (2 June 2011). "Neil Jordan wins major literary award for second time". The Irish Times. Retrieved 23 September 2011.
The novel is told from the viewpoint of Kevin Thunder who grows up in 1960s Dublin, next door to Bram Stoker's house. Kevin has an elusive double, Gerald for whom he is often mistaken. Gerald lives in the more refined Palmerston Park and attends Belvedere College. The narrative begins at Gerald's funeral where Kevin meets Gerald's daughter Emily. The remainder of the novel takes the form of an explanation written for Emily on how his life and that of her father intertwined over the years.
2011, UK, John Murray, ISBN 1-84854-420-0, Pub date 06 Jan 2011, Paperback
Mistake (criminal law), or mistake of fact, a defense to criminal charges on the grounds of ignorance of a fact
Mistake in English contract law, a specific type of mistake, pertaining to England
Mistake (contract law), an erroneous belief, at contracting, that certain facts are trueMistake in English contract law, a specific type of mistake, pertaining to England
"Mistakes", by Blue October UK from Preaching Lies to the Righteous, 2001
Mistake Mistake Mistake Mistake, a 2006 album by James Figurine
MST3K (Mystery Science Theater 3000), an American television comedy series
Mistake Peak (Arizona), a mountain in the U.S. state of Arizona
This page was last edited on 20 December 2022, at 20:31 (UTC).
"The Mistake" (House), an episode of the TV series House
"Mistakes" (Brian McFadden song), a 2010 song featuring Delta Goodrem
Mistake of law, a defense to criminal charges on the grounds of ignorance of law
"Mistake", by Big Wreck from the album The Pleasure and the Greed
2Case studies											Toggle Case studies subsection																					2.1Adolf Beck																											2.2Ronald Cotton
Please help to improve this section by introducing more precise citations.
With genetic fingerprinting and DNA evidence now commonplace, many convictions based on eyewitness testimony are being re-examined. According to statistics, over 75% of the cases of DNA exonerations have involved mistaken eyewitness identification.
Mistaken identity is a defense in criminal law which claims the actual innocence of the criminal defendant, and attempts to undermine evidence of guilt by asserting that any eyewitness to the crime incorrectly thought that they saw the defendant, when in fact the person seen by the witness was someone else. The defendant may question both the memory of the witness (suggesting, for example, that the identification is the result of a false memory), and the perception of the witness (suggesting, for example, that the witness had poor eyesight, or that the crime occurred in a poorly lit place).
Thompson has since become a critic of eyewitness testimony because of its proven unreliability. She was filled with remorse after learning that she had contributed to Cotton, an innocent man, being convicted and sent to prison. Upon release for wrongful conviction (proved by DNA analysis), Cotton was awarded $109,150.69 in compensation from the state of North Carolina. Cotton and Thompson have reconciled and become close friends; they conduct speaking tours to promote reform of procedures for eyewitness testimony.
This page was last edited on 11 September 2022, at 14:42 (UTC).
After Cotton was released, Poole was prosecuted and pleaded guilty to raping Thompson.[1] She wrote to him but he never responded. He died in prison in 2000.[2]
A famous case of mistaken identity in the United Kingdom is the case of Adolf Beck, who served several years in prison as a swindler, was released upon completion of his sentence, and then arrested again on the same charges before the actual swindler of similar appearance was apprehended.
The defense does carry a risk: It may be legal in some jurisdictions to falsely assert one's innocence while it is illegal to falsely blame another person for the crime.[citation needed]
In Holmes v. South Carolina, 547 U.S. 319, 126 S. Ct. 1727, 1731, 164 L. Ed. 2d 503 (2006), the US Supreme Court held that a South Carolina statute that prohibited putting on a SODDI defense when the state's case was "strong" violated the Sixth Amendment right to put on a defense.[3]
The SODDI defense ("Some Other Dude Did It" or "Some Other Dude Done It") is often used when there is no question that a crime occurred, such as in murder or assault cases, where the defendant is not asserting self-defense.The SODDI defense in a murder, rape or assault case is often accompanied by a mistaken identity defense and/or an alibi defense.Another common scenario where the SODDI defense is available is where the police find contraband in a car or residence containing multiple people.In this scenario, each person present could assert that one of the other people possessed the contraband.
Researchers like Elizabeth Loftus have challenged eyewitness testimony based on the fact that people's memory can be distorted. In her study she questioned eyewitnesses about a videotape of a car accident. Witnesses were asked "How fast were the cars going when they hit each other?" However, some witnesses were asked the same question with the verb "hit" replaced by the verb "smashed". Those who were asked the question with "smashed" as the verb said the cars were moving faster than those who were asked the same question with the verb "hit." Additionally, when asked if there was broken glass at the scene, those who heard "smashed" were more likely to say there was than those who heard "hit." There was no broken glass in the videotape. Hers is only one example of studies that show memory can be susceptible to distortions.
Another case demonstrating mistaken identity is the case of American Ronald Cotton. In 1984, Jennifer Thompson was raped. During the attack, she studied the attacker's face, determined to identify him if she survived the attack. When presented with a photo lineup, she identified Cotton as her attacker. Twice, she testified against him by saying she had identified him. When presented with Bobby Poole, an inmate who boasted to fellow inmates that he had committed the crimes for which Cotton was convicted, she said she had never seen him before. After Cotton served 10.5 years of his sentence, attorneys arranged for DNA testing of him and Poole. Poole's DNA matched that collected from Thompson's rape kit, proving that he had raped her.
Abraham Lincoln used mistaken identity as a defense for William "Duff" Armstrong in 1858. He referred to a farmer's almanac to prove that a witness could not have seen Armstrong in the moonlight, as claimed, because the position of the moon that night would not have provided sufficient illumination. Armstrong was acquitted.
Because the prosecution in a criminal case must prove the guilt of the accused beyond a reasonable doubt, the defendant must convince the jury that there is reasonable doubt about whether the witness actually saw what they claim to have seen, or recalls having seen. Although scientific studies have shown that mistaken identity is a common phenomenon, jurors give very strong credence to eyewitness testimony, particularly where the eyewitness is resolute in believing that their identification of the defendant was correct.
Jennifer Thompson. "I Was Certain, But I Was Dead Wrong" The Houston Chronicle (June 20, 2000)
Mistaken identity: Keith Lamont Johnson, Detroit man sues over repeated arrests for another man's crimes
