Fire Information for Resource Management System, near real-time active fire locations provided by NASA
This page was last edited on 7 October 2022, at 09:34 (UTC).
^ The Firm Archived 2012-01-02 at the Wayback Machine at Box Office Mojo
David Strathairn as Ray McDeere, Mitch's brother who was in jail for a manslaughter conviction
^ "The Firm". Rotten Tomatoes. Archived from the original on 2010-11-10. Retrieved 2022-06-09.
^ "Grisham v. Grisham: John Grisham issues judgment on ALL his novels" Archived 2009-06-26 at the Wayback Machine Tina Jordan, Entertainment Weekly, February 13, 2004
The Firm is a 1993 American legal thriller film directed by Sydney Pollack and starring Tom Cruise, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Gene Hackman, Ed Harris, Holly Hunter, Hal Holbrook, David Strathairn and Gary Busey. The film is based on the 1991 novel The Firm by author John Grisham. The Firm was one of two films released in 1993 that were adapted from a Grisham novel, the other being The Pelican Brief.
"Grisham v. Grisham: John Grisham issues judgment on ALL his novels"
Galbraith, Jane (27 June 1993). "A look at Hollywood and the movies : 'Firm' Billing : Trust Us – Gene Hackman's in It". Archived from the original on 2016-05-31. Retrieved 2016-04-28 – via LA Times.
FBI agents reveal to Mitch that BL&L's top client is the Morolto crime family of the Chicago Outfit, and most of the firm is involved in a significant tax fraud and money laundering scheme. The deceased associates learned the truth and were killed, as was Lomax. The FBI warns Mitch that his belongings are bugged and pressures him to provide evidence against the firm and the Moroltos. In return for $1.5 million and his brother Ray's release from prison, Mitch agrees to cooperate. The FBI releases Ray and gives Mitch half the money, but plans to return Ray to jail after Mitch hands over the incriminating files. Mitch confesses his one-night stand in the Caymans to Abby, who plans to leave him.
Mitch discovers that the firm's practice of sending padded bills to clients is mail fraud, exposing them to RICO charges. With Tammy's help, he copies the billing records but needs files from Avery's Cayman house. Avery changes his schedule, jeopardizing Mitch's plan, but Abby flies to the Caymans and seduces and drugs Avery to get the files. The firm's phone tap records Abby warning Tammy, leading DeVasher's hitmen to pursue them. After copying the files, Avery tells Abby the firm set up the prostitute who seduced Mitch on the beach. Avery warns Abby to leave and is later killed by DeVasher's hitmen. They stage his death as a bathtub drowning.
Wilford Brimley as Bill DeVasher, officially the head of security at the Firm—unofficially the Firm's main hitman
Also, in the book, Eddie's old secretary, Tammy, seduces and drugs Avery.In the movie, however, it is Abby who seduces Avery.This also changes the character development because in the movie Abby is portrayed as risking herself for Mitch. In the book, Abby is simply an accomplice to Tammy.
The Innocent Man: Murder and Injustice in a Small Town (2006)
"A look at Hollywood and the movies : 'Firm' Billing : Trust Us – Gene Hackman's in It"
The Firm Archived 2012-01-02 at the Wayback Machine at Box Office Mojo
Released on June 30, 1993, the film was a major commercial success, grossing $270.2 million against a budget of $42 million, making it the highest grossing film adapted from a Grisham novel and the highest-grossing R-rated film of 1993, and received positive reviews for the performances (particularly from Cruise and Hunter), although the screenplay received some criticism. Holly Hunter was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance, while Dave Grusin was nominated for Best Original Score.
Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Paul Calderon".
^ Galbraith, Jane (27 June 1993). "A look at Hollywood and the movies : 'Firm' Billing : Trust Us – Gene Hackman's in It". Archived from the original on 2016-05-31. Retrieved 2016-04-28 – via LA Times.
^ Fox, David J. (July 6, 1993). "Movies: 'The Firm,' with $31.5 million for the weekend, leads the way. Total movie receipts for the four-day holiday are an estimated $120 million". The Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on 2012-07-15. Retrieved 2010-10-26.
^ NBC Unveils Fall Primetime Schedule for 2011–12 Season Archived 2021-05-17 at the Wayback Machine NBC press release at TheFutonCritic, May 15, 2011
"Grisham v. Grisham: John Grisham issues judgment on ALL his novels" Archived 2009-06-26 at the Wayback Machine Tina Jordan, Entertainment Weekly, February 13, 2004
Mitch's plans are compromised when a prison guard on the Moroltos' payroll tips off DeVasher about Ray's transfer to FBI custody. Fleeing from DeVasher and his hitman, Mitch confronts DeVasher and knocks him unconscious. Mitch meets with the Moroltos, presenting himself as a loyal attorney who uncovered the firm's illegal over-billing. He asks for permission to turn over their billing invoices to help the FBI prosecute the firm, but assures them that any information he has about their legal affairs is safe under attorney–client privilege. The Moroltos reluctantly agree to guarantee Mitch's safety. Mitch hands over the evidence and is able to continue his legal career. He reconciles with Abby.
The film accords with the book in most respects, but the ending is significantly different. Mitch does not end up in the Caribbean, as in the book; he and Abby simply get into their car and drive back to Boston.
^ Brown, Joe (1993-07-02). "'The Firm' (R)". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on 2014-10-24. Retrieved 2012-01-08.
^ https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-firm-1993 The Firm review] by Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun-Times, June 30, 1993 Archived October 1, 2012, at the Wayback Machine
Fox, David J. (July 20, 1993). "Weekend Box Office : So Far, This Is Summer to Beat". The Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on 2012-07-15. Retrieved 2011-01-10.
Tom Cruise as Mitch McDeere, a promising recent Harvard Law graduate
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Paul Calderon".
Sullivan Walker as Thomas Abanks, the owner of a scuba diving business
Barbara Garrick as Kay Quinn, Lamar Quinn's wife who befriends both Abby and Mitch
The film earned some negative reviews as well, notably from James Berardinelli, who said that "[v]ery little of what made the written version so enjoyable has been successfully translated to the screen, and what we're left with instead is an overly-long [and] pedantic thriller."[12] Grisham enjoyed the film, remarking: "I thought [Tom Cruise] did a good job. He played the innocent young associate very well."[13]
The film was released on VHS in December 1993, with the cassettes were specially made of blue plastic. The DVD was released on May 23, 2000. The special features include only the teaser and theatrical trailers. A Blu-ray edition was released on September 11, 2012.
Roger Ebert gave The Firm three stars out of four, remarking: "The movie is virtually an anthology of good small character performances. [...] The large gallery of characters makes The Firm into a convincing canvas [... but] with a screenplay that developed the story more clearly, this might have been a superior movie, instead of just a good one with some fine performances."[11]
The film earned two Academy Award nominations including Best Supporting Actress for Holly Hunter (losing to Anna Paquin for The Piano, though she did win an Oscar at that year's ceremony for Best Actress in the same film as Paquin) and Best Original Score for Dave Grusin (losing to John Williams for Schindler's List).
^ Fox, David J. (July 20, 1993). "Weekend Box Office : So Far, This Is Summer to Beat". The Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on 2012-07-15. Retrieved 2011-01-10.
Holly Hunter as Tammy Hemphill, Eddie's chain-smoking secretary and lover who aids Mitch in copying and stealing the files in Memphis and the Cayman Islands
Gene Hackman as Avery Tolar, Mitch's mentor at the Firm
Gene Hackman's name did not appear on the film's release poster. Hackman joined the film late, when it was already well into production, because the producers had originally wanted to change the gender of the character and cast Meryl Streep, until author John Grisham objected and Hackman was eventually cast. Tom Cruise's deal with Paramount already stated that only his name could appear above the title. Hackman also wanted his name to appear above the title, but when this was refused he asked for his name to be removed completely from the poster.[3] Hackman's name does appear in the beginning or end credits.
"The Firm". Rotten Tomatoes. Archived from the original on 2010-11-10. Retrieved 2022-06-09.
The film's soundtrack is almost exclusively solo piano by Dave Grusin.
Mitch's confession to Abby about his sexual infidelity was also unique to the film. In the novel, McDeere never tells Abby about his infidelity. In the book, Abby's not knowing about Mitch's infidelity is a major "suspense" piece. Mitch comes home one evening and finds an envelope addressed to Abby, that has "Photos – Do Not Bend" written on it. The photos were surreptitiously given to DeVasher by Art Germain. Mitch thinks it is the pictures he was shown of his infidelity overseas. Abby is in the bedroom when he sees the open package. He enters the bedroom and learns that Abby opened the package, but it was empty. Mitch realizes DeVasher is toying with him, and this incident in the book causes Mitch to cooperate with the FBI.In the film, Mitch's confession prompts Abby to seriously consider leaving him, but she ultimately helps him bring down the firm.
Mitch's decision to work with the Moroltos angers the FBI, but he reminds them that the evidence he has provided is under RICO's jurisdiction and can ensure that the senior members of the firm go to prison for a long time. The film ends with the McDeeres returning to Boston in their old car and Ray enjoying his new life in the Caymans with the money Mitch obtained for him.
Gary Busey as Eddie Lomax, a private investigator and former cell-mate of Ray McDeere
In April 2011 Entertainment One announced that a sequel to The Firm was being produced with Sony Pictures Television and Paramount Pictures. The series picked up the story of Mitch and his family ten years after the events of the novel and film. The first season was 22 episodes long and began production in Canada in July 2011. In May 2011, NBC confirmed that they had acquired the U.S. broadcast rights to the show and that they planned to début it in January 2012.[14] The show was cancelled after its first season.
Avery Tolar was originally Avery Tolleson; the latest version of the novel uses the film's surname. Tolar is portrayed as a sort of reluctant villain in the film, while in the novel he has no such moral conflicts.
"Movies: 'The Firm,' with $31.5 million for the weekend, leads the way. Total movie receipts for the four-day holiday are an estimated $120 million"
In the film, apparently in order to preserve the protagonist's personal integrity, Mitch exposes a systematic overbilling scheme by the firm, thus driving a wedge between the Moroltos (who in essence become complicit with Mitch) and their law firm (in the book, overbilling only received a brief mention). He receives a smaller amount of money from the FBI, which he gives to Ray, allowing him to disappear.Rather than capitalizing on his circumstances by stealing money from the firm, as in the book, the movie's McDeere ends up battered and bruised, but with his integrity and professional ethics intact. Mitch also makes the FBI have to work in order to bring down the firm by having to argue that each instance of excessive billing is a federal offense (by virtue of the excessive bills being sent through the mail).The volume and frequency meet the criteria for RICO, thereby enabling the FBI to effectively put the firm out of business by seizing its property and equipment and freezing its bank accounts. From here the Moroltos would then need to find another law firm willing to take them on as clients, and if they couldn't, charges for non-lodgment of tax returns could be brought.Since Mitch is exposing only illegal activity, he is able to retain his law license.
After passing the bar exam, Mitch works grueling hours and strains his marriage. With Avery's guidance, Mitch discovers the firm's primary work involves aiding wealthy clients to hide money in offshore shell corporations and other questionable tax-avoidance schemes. On a work trip to the Cayman Islands, Mitch overhears a client saying that the firm's Chicago associates break legs. At Avery's vacation home, he finds documents linked to four deceased associates. Meanwhile, a prostitute arranged by the firm's security chief, Bill DeVasher, seduces Mitch, and the photos are used to blackmail him into silence. Mitch hires private investigator Eddie Lomax to investigate the associates' deaths, but Lomax is murdered by hitmen, witnessed by his secretary Tammy.
Jerry Hardin as Royce McKnight, managing partner at the Firm
8In other media											Toggle In other media subsection																					8.1TV sequel
Karina Lombard as Young Woman on Beach who seduces Mitch
The film was released while Grisham was at the height of his popularity. That week, Grisham and Michael Crichton evenly divided the top six paperback spots on The New York Times Best Seller list.[4] It opened on June 30, 1993 in 2,393 theatres, and landed at #1 at the box office, grossing $25.4 million over the 4th of July weekend. It remained in the #1 spot at the box office for 3 weeks. After 12 weeks in theatres, the film was a huge success, making over $158 million domestically and $111 million internationally ($270 million worldwide).[5][6] Additionally, it was the largest grossing R-rated movie of 1993 and of any film based on a Grisham novel.[7]
Brown, Joe (1993-07-02). "'The Firm' (R)". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on 2014-10-24. Retrieved 2012-01-08.
Mitch McDeere, a top Harvard Law School graduate, takes a tempting job offer from boutique law firm Bendini, Lambert & Locke in Memphis, Tennessee. He and his wife Abby relocate there, and he prepares to pass the Tennessee bar exam. Senior partner Avery Tolar shows Mitch the firm's strict culture of loyalty, confidentiality, and high fees. Although the money and benefits, such as a new house, a Mercedes-Benz, and paid-off student loans, tempt Mitch, Abby is wary of the firm's meddling in employees' personal lives.
https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-firm-1993 The Firm review] by Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun-Times, June 30, 1993 Archived October 1, 2012, at the Wayback Machine
This page was last edited on 3 March 2023, at 09:21 (UTC).
This is also the final film for Steven Hill and John Beal.
The Firm review Archived 2021-05-17 at the Wayback Machine by James Berardinelli, ReelViews.net, 1993
Ed Harris as FBI Agent Wayne Tarrance, the agent in charge of the investigation into the Firm; Mitch's primary contact with the FBI
Greystoke: The Legend of Tarzan, Lord of the Apes (1984)
^ "The Firm". Metacritic. Fandom, Inc. Retrieved June 15, 2022.
Hal Holbrook as Oliver Lambert, senior partner at the Firm
"Weekend Box Office : So Far, This Is Summer to Beat"
The Innocent Man: Murder and Injustice in a Small Town
Terry Kinney as Lamar Quinn, Mitch's friend who works at the Firm
^ The Firm review Archived 2021-05-17 at the Wayback Machine by James Berardinelli, ReelViews.net, 1993
Principal photography took place from November 9, 1992 to March 20, 1993 and though it was primarily filmed in Memphis, Tennessee, some scenes were filmed in Marion, Arkansas and the Cayman Islands.
NBC Unveils Fall Primetime Schedule for 2011–12 Season Archived 2021-05-17 at the Wayback Machine NBC press release at TheFutonCritic, May 15, 2011
A more fundamental difference from the book is the motives and manner in which Mitch solves his predicament. In the book, Mitch acknowledges to himself that he is breaking the attorney–client privilege by copying information and giving it to the FBI. In most US states this privilege only applies to crimes that have already been committed. The privilege does not apply if a lawyer knows that his client either is committing or will commit a crime.However, it is important to note that the attorney-client privilege is one of an evidentiary nature relating specifically to information sought during pretrial discovery or at trial.This is distinguished from an attorney's duty of confidentiality, which prohibits (with exceptions including, for example, if a client is engaged in conduct that will certainly lead to physical harm against another) disclosure of communications made between the attorney and client.Additionally, Mitch must disclose information about his legitimate clients as well.Accepting that he will likely not be allowed to practice law anywhere again, he swindles $10 million from the firm, along with receiving $1 million of a promised $2 million from the FBI for his cooperation. After an extended manhunt involving the police, the firm's lawyers, and hired thugs from the Morolto family, Mitch escapes with Abby (and his brother Ray) to the Cayman Islands.Before fleeing, he leaves behind detailed records of the firm's illegal activities, as well as a recorded deposition.Mitch's information gives federal prosecutors enough evidence to indict half of the firm's active lawyers right away, as well as several retired partners.The documents also provide the FBI with circumstantial evidence of the firm's involvement in money laundering and tax fraud, and thus probable cause for a search warrant for the firm's building and files.This additional evidence is enough to smash both the firm and the Morolto family with a massive RICO indictment.
Fox, David J. (July 6, 1993). "Movies: 'The Firm,' with $31.5 million for the weekend, leads the way. Total movie receipts for the four-day holiday are an estimated $120 million". The Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on 2012-07-15. Retrieved 2010-10-26.
^ a b "The Firm (UK)". Official Charts Company. Retrieved 22 September 2020.
The Firm Live at Hammersmith 1984 (1984) (limited release video)
The band played only two UK concerts on this tour: one at Middlesbrough Town Hall, and one at the London Hammersmith Odeon. Inaddition to Firm songs, the band played solo material by Rodgers and Page. This included Paul Rodgers singing "Live in Peace" from his earlier solo album.
Wall, Mick (11 February 2020). "The story of The Firm: the band that saved Jimmy Page". Louder. Retrieved 15 January 2021.
Brian Downing. "The Firm - The Firm | Songs, Reviews, Credits, Awards". AllMusic. Retrieved 15 July 2014.
In the early 1980s, Page and Rodgers were both dealing with the demise of their respective bands, Led Zeppelin and Bad Company.[4] "Jimmy was at a bit of a loose end," recalled Rodgers of the band's formation. "He'd come round and check out my home studio and we ended up writing songs, but without any definite plans. Jimmy was very keen to get on the road, so we put a band together… The first thing I knew was that he had to be writing songs again. I'd already seen one of my friends going down that road in Koss, and it wasn't going to happen again."[5] They initially wanted to form a band with Yes and King Crimson drummer Bill Bruford and bass player Pino Palladino but both were under contract with other acts.[4]
"Jimmy Page | Bio, Pictures, Videos". Rolling Stone. Retrieved 15 July 2014.
^ a b c Wall, Mick (11 February 2020). "The story of The Firm: the band that saved Jimmy Page". Louder. Retrieved 15 January 2021.
^ Brian Downing. "The Firm - The Firm | Songs, Reviews, Credits, Awards". AllMusic. Retrieved 15 July 2014.
Paul Rodgers – lead vocals, rhythm guitar, acoustic guitar, piano
This page was last edited on 15 February 2023, at 18:15 (UTC).
^ a b "The Firm (US)". Music VF. Retrieved 22 September 2020.
"The Firm - The Firm | Songs, Reviews, Credits, Awards"
Page and Rodgers refused to play material by their former bands and instead opted for a selection of Firm songs plus tracks from their solo albums; however, at least one performance of "Midnight Moonlight" featured sections of "White Summer" and "Kashmir", originally recorded by Page's former bands The Yardbirds and Led Zeppelin, respectively. The new songs were heavily infused with a soulful and commercially accessible sound, courtesy of Franklin's fretless bass guitar underpinning an understated song structure. Despite refusing to play old material, the last track from The Firm, "Midnight Moonlight", was originally an unreleased Led Zeppelin song entitled "Swan Song". This caused some critics to claim that Page had begun to run out of ideas.[6] On the other hand, both albums and especially tours were met with largely positive and enthusiastic responses by fans of both lead members' previous bands.
The Firm were a British rock supergroup formed in 1984, featuring singer Paul Rodgers, guitarist Jimmy Page, drummer Chris Slade, and bass player Tony Franklin.[1][2][3] The band released two albums in 1985 and 1986 and eventually saw their greatest chart success with the songs "Radioactive", "All the King's Horses", and "Satisfaction Guaranteed".
^ "Jimmy Page | Bio, Pictures, Videos". Rolling Stone. Retrieved 15 July 2014.
"The Firm (UK)". Official Charts Company. Retrieved 22 September 2020.
Ling, Dave (March 2000). "My Classic Career". Classic Rock #12. p. 90.
Jimmy Page – lead guitar, acoustic guitar, violin bow, backing vocals
"The story of The Firm: the band that saved Jimmy Page"
^ Ling, Dave (March 2000). "My Classic Career". Classic Rock #12. p. 90.
In subsequent interviews, Page and Rodgers both indicated that the band was never meant to last more than two albums.[4] After the band split, Page and Rodgers returned to solo work while Chris Slade joined AC/DC in 1989 and Franklin teamed up with guitarist John Sykes and drummer Carmine Appice in Blue Murder.
