Baba Vanga's predictions 2023?Baba Vanga is credited with predicting many notable world events, but what does she think is in store for 2023?
Vlad the Impaler: 7 gruesome acts by the man who Inspired Dracula
The Battle of the Atlantic: The longest military campaign of WWII
The ship of gold: The '£1 billion' lost treasure of the Merchant RoyalIn 1641 a ship of legendary riches sank off Cornwall and was never seen again.
Nostradamus has been credited with predicting the Great Fire of London, 9/11 and the rise of Adolf Hitler
The weird and wonderful history of the Eurovision Song Contest
The life of Noor Inayat Khan: An unsung hero of WWII
When the Vikings ruled in Britain: A brief history of Danelaw
10 free episodes you can watch on History PLAY in March 2023
In 1641 a ship of legendary riches sank off Cornwall and was never seen again.
25 little known facts about the Curse of Oak Island
HISTORY Play10 free episodes you can watch on History PLAY in March 2023
Admiral Karl Dönitz: Head of the Nazi's U-Boats and Hitler's successor
Baba Vanga is credited with predicting many notable world events, but what does she think is in store for 2023?
UNMISSABLE AWARD WINNING DOCUMENTARIES AND FACTUAL SERIES ALL IN ONE PLACE
Ada Lovelace changed computing one hundred years after her death
The ship of gold: The '£1 billion' lost treasure of the Merchant Royal
5 fiercest Viking warriors: From Harald Hardrada to Ivar the boneless
Did Nostradamus really predict the rise of Adolf Hitler?Nostradamus has been credited with predicting the Great Fire of London, 9/11 and the rise of Adolf Hitler
Precise in observance of legal or religious requirements; strict; overscrupulous; rigid (often used by way of reproach or contempt).
1834,L[etitia] E[lizabeth] L[andon],Francesca Carrara. […], volume II, London: Richard Bentley, […], (successor to Henry Colburn), OCLC 630079698, page 192:The host proposed divers puritanical fancies—nay, once hinted at a head of Cromwell himself; but the hostess overruled all these proposals, and stood firm by the Sun.
This page was last edited on 9 February 2023, at 11:05.
Mrs. Barrymore is of interest to me. She is a heavy, solid person, very limited, intensely respectable, and inclined to be puritanical. You could hardly conceive a less emotional subject. Yet I have told you how, on the first night here, I heard her sobbing bitterly, and since then I have more than once observed traces of tears upon her face. Some deep sorrow gnaws ever at her heart. Sometimes I wonder if she has a guilty memory which haunts her, and sometimes I suspect Barrymore of being a domestic tyrant.
The host proposed divers puritanical fancies—nay, once hinted at a head of Cromwell himself; but the hostess overruled all these proposals, and stood firm by the Sun.
1834,L[etitia] E[lizabeth] L[andon],Francesca Carrara. […], volume II, London: Richard Bentley, […], (successor to Henry Colburn), OCLC 630079698, page 192:
Of or pertaining to the Puritans, or to their doctrines and practice.1834,L[etitia] E[lizabeth] L[andon],Francesca Carrara. […], volume II, London: Richard Bentley, […], (successor to Henry Colburn), OCLC 630079698, page 192:The host proposed divers puritanical fancies—nay, once hinted at a head of Cromwell himself; but the hostess overruled all these proposals, and stood firm by the Sun.
1 English1.1 Alternative forms1.2 Etymology1.3 Pronunciation1.4 Adjective1.4.1 Quotations1.4.2 Translations1.5 Noun1.6 Anagrams
↑ John Abbot Goodwin, The Pilgrim republic: an historical review of the colony of New Plymouth..., Houghton Mifflin Company, 1888, separatists&f=false p. 1
The Puritans were a group of English-speaking Protestants in the 16th and 17th centuries. Puritans thought that the English Reformation had not gone far enough. They also did not agree with some of the things the Church of England did.
Those who left the Church of England altogether were known as Separatists.[2] Many of the Plymouth Colony Pilgrims who established the first successful colony in New England were separatists.[3][4] Some of these churches were later called Congregationalists.[5]
Eugene Aubrey Stratton, Plymouth Colony: Its History and People, 1620-1691, (Salt Lake City: Ancestry Publishing, 1986), p. 413
Many Puritan groups emigrated to New England so that they could start their own societies there and practice Puritanism the way they wanted. Puritan beliefs and writings became very important in New England. One important work was Puritan John Bunyan's "The Pilgrim's Progress".
Because they did not agree with the way the Church of England did things, the Puritans made reforms, or changes, in their own churches and societies. Some of the Reformed churches in Europe made similar changes. The Puritans made preaching very important. They used as little ritual and decoration as possible. Very often, sermons talked about Hell. One famous sermon is "Sinners in the hands of an angry god", by Jonathan Edwards, an important Puritan preacher. The sermon talks about God being angry with people for sinful behavior, and throwing them into the fires of Hell as a punishment.
This page was last changed on 1 July 2021, at 04:33.
A Puritan was any person who tried to become purer through worship and doctrine. The Puritans' way of life and set of beliefs were called Puritanism.The most important parts of Puritanism were piety (obeying religious rules), dressing simply, and living a modest life.
A Puritan's Mind Archived 2008-04-08 at the Wayback Machine, some writings of the Puritans and their admirers
One of the Puritans' most important beliefs was that every person needed to understand the Bible in his own way. (This belief is shared among most Protestants.) Puritans tried to live by the Bible's teachings in every way. They tried to be morally pure in even the smallest ways. They also tried to be spiritually pure in every way. They thought that man existed for the glory of God. They believed that man's most important job in life was to do God's will (what God wanted). By doing God's will, man would be rewarded with happiness in the future.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License and the GFDL; additional terms may apply. See Terms of Use for details.
↑ Eugene Aubrey Stratton, Plymouth Colony: Its History and People, 1620-1691, (Salt Lake City: Ancestry Publishing, 1986), p. 413
↑ See D.L. Horowitz's "Patterns of Ethnic Separatism", originally published in Comparative Studies in Society and History, 1981, vol 23, 165-95
King Henry VIII separated from the Roman Catholic Church in 1534 and established the Protestant Church of England.This Church remained until 1553. Queen Mary returned the Church to Roman Catholicism until 1558 when Elizabeth I of England became Queen.Since she was a Protestant many people were happy, but thought that the Church had not changed enough and was still too much like Catholicism.[1]
See D.L. Horowitz's "Patterns of Ethnic Separatism", originally published in Comparative Studies in Society and History, 1981, vol 23, 165-95
John Abbot Goodwin, The Pilgrim republic: an historical review of the colony of New Plymouth..., Houghton Mifflin Company, 1888, separatists&f=false p. 1
The Puritans believed some of the same things as Calvinists and Scottish Presbyterians. All of these groups were devoted to the Bible and to being morally pure.
