Most pages on Wikipedia are only protected temporarily, to prevent edit wars or to control vandalism.You should be able to edit the page when it is unprotected in a short while. In the meantime, please feel free to discuss the changes you want to make on the talk page of the page in question.However a few types of pages are protected indefinitely:
If you discover a page that appears to have been protected and then forgotten about, you can request to have it unprotected by posting on Wikipedia:Requests for page protection.If a page has only recently been protected, it may be best to wait a few days first, unless some resolution has been reached on the talk page.
The Main pageand all pages and images included onto it, via cascading protection
Images which are tempting targets for vandalism, such as Image:Wiki.png.Some images are also restricted by the image blacklist
Pages which have legally defined wording, such as the general disclaimer and the licensing policy
Depending on its level of protection, editing on the page has been restricted to either autoconfirmed users, extended confirmed users, template editors or administrators. We regret any inconvenience this may cause—we strive to protect pages only when absolutely necessary and to unprotect them as soon as possible. We usually only protect pages that, for whatever reason, show themselves to be particularly prone to vandalism. If you wish to experiment with editing Wikipedia, please try the Wikipedia sandbox.
The expiry of the period of protection is usually shown by a template that has been added to the article, independent of the actual protection mechanism. The template displays a message like "This article is currently protected from editing until October 13, 2015". The expiry time may not be displayed, and is not in general midnight UTC; it can be found in the protection log, a link to which is shown in the template message at the top of the article.
This page was last edited on 28 March 2021, at 21:03 (UTC).
If you think that an edit needs to be made to a protected page, please discuss the change first on its talk page.If the page is only semi-protected, a logged-in user will make the change if necessary.If the page is fully protected, you can use the template {{editprotected}} to attract the attention of a Wikipedia administrator who can make the change if it has consensus.
For more information on who protected the page and for what reason, see:
Templates which are transcluded on many pages, such as {{tl}} and {{ambox}}, which would make a tempting target for denial of service attacks
Pages in the MediaWiki namespace, which contain system messages and text for the user interface
Protectionism, an economic policy of protecting a country's market from competitors.
^ Emily Monosson, Evolution in a Toxic World: How Life Responds to Chemical Threats (2012), p. 18.
Protection mechanism, in computer science. In computer sciences the separation of protection and security is a design choice. William Wulf has identified protection as a mechanism and security as a policy.[6]
Protection of rights, with respect to civil and political rights.
Radiation protection, protection of people and the environment from radiation
^ Madison KC (2003). "Barrier function of the skin: "la raison d'être" of the epidermis" (PDF). J Invest Dermatol. 121 (2): 231–41. doi:10.1046/j.1523-1747.2003.12359.x. PMID 12880413.
Madison KC (2003). "Barrier function of the skin: "la raison d'être" of the epidermis" (PDF). J Invest Dermatol. 121 (2): 231–41. doi:10.1046/j.1523-1747.2003.12359.x. PMID 12880413.
Close protection, physical protection and security from danger of very important persons
Some kind of protection is a characteristic of all life, as living things have evolved at least some protective mechanisms to counter damaging environmental phenomena, such as ultraviolet light.[2] Biological membranes such as bark on trees and skin on animals offer protection from various threats, with skin playing a key role in protecting organisms against pathogens[3] and excessive water loss.[4] Additional structures like scales and hair offer further protection from the elements and from predators, with some animals having features such as spines or camouflage serving exclusively as anti-predator adaptations. Many animals supplement the protection afforded by their physiology by burrowing or otherwise adopting habitats or behaviors that insulate them from potential sources of harm. Humans originally began wearing clothing and building shelters in prehistoric times for protection from the elements.[5] Both humans and animals are also often concerned with the protection of others, with adult animals being particularly inclined to seek to protect their young from elements of nature and from predators.
Jaquetta Hawkes, The Atlas of Early Man: The Rise of Man Across the Globe, From 35,000 B.C to A.D. 500 (1993), p. 21.
The meaning of the word protection, as used in the electrical industry, is no different to that in everyday use. People protect themselves against personal or financial loss by means of insurance and from injury or discomfort by the use of protective clothing. They further protect their property by the installation of security measures such as locks and/or alarm systems.[1]
^ Wulf, W.; E. Cohen; W. Corwin; A. Jones; R. Levin; C. Pierson; F. Pollack (June 1974). "HYDRA: the kernel of a multiprocessor operating system" (PDF). Communications of the ACM. 17 (6): 337–345. doi:10.1145/355616.364017. ISSN 0001-0782. S2CID 8011765. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2007-09-26.
Humanitarian protection, the protection of civilians, in conflict zones and other humanitarian crises
Executive protection, security measures taken to ensure the safety of important persons
"Barrier function of the skin: "la raison d'être" of the epidermis"
Wulf, W.; E. Cohen; W. Corwin; A. Jones; R. Levin; C. Pierson; F. Pollack (June 1974). "HYDRA: the kernel of a multiprocessor operating system" (PDF). Communications of the ACM. 17 (6): 337–345. doi:10.1145/355616.364017. ISSN 0001-0782. S2CID 8011765. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2007-09-26.
Brian Scaddan, 17th Edition IEE Wiring Regulations: Explained and Illustrated (2015), p. 41.
Right of asylum, protection for those seeking asylum from persecution by political groups and to ensure safe passage
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Proksch E, Brandner JM, Jensen JM (2008). "The skin: an indispensable barrier". Exp Dermatol. 17 (12): 1063–72. doi:10.1111/j.1600-0625.2008.00786.x. PMID 19043850. S2CID 31353914.
Consumer protection, laws governing sales and credit practices involving the public.
Fire protection, including passive fire protection measures such as physical firewalls and fireproofing, and active fire protection measures, such as fire sprinkler systems.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Proksch E, Brandner JM, Jensen JM (2008). "The skin: an indispensable barrier". Exp Dermatol. 17 (12): 1063–72. doi:10.1111/j.1600-0625.2008.00786.x. PMID 19043850. S2CID 31353914.
^ Jaquetta Hawkes, The Atlas of Early Man: The Rise of Man Across the Globe, From 35,000 B.C to A.D. 500 (1993), p. 21.
Protection of technological systems is often symbolized by the use of a padlock icon, such as "🔒", or a padlock image.
Protection is any measure taken to guard a thing against damage caused by outside forces. Protection can be provided to physical objects, including organisms, to systems, and to intangible things like civil and political rights. Although the mechanisms for providing protection vary widely, the basic meaning of the term remains the same. This is illustrated by an explanation found in a manual on electrical wiring:
Safe sex practices to afford sexual protection against pregnancy and disease, particularly the use of condoms
Workplace or employment retaliation, protecting individuals in the workplace such as from being fired for opposing, aiding and complaining about workplace practices
^ Brian Scaddan, 17th Edition IEE Wiring Regulations: Explained and Illustrated (2015), p. 41.
In the human sphere of activity, the concept of protection has been extended to nonliving objects, including technological systems such as computers, and to intangible things such as intellectual property, beliefs, and economic systems. Humans seek to protect locations of historical and cultural significance through historic preservation efforts, and are also concerned with protecting the environment from damage caused by human activity, and with protecting the Earth as a whole from potentially harmful objects from space.
1Physical protection											Toggle Physical protection subsection																					1.1Protection of objects																											1.2Protection of persons
Protection racket, a criminal scheme involving exchanging money from "protection" against violence
2Protection of systems											Toggle Protection of systems subsection																					2.1Protection of technological systems																											2.2Protection of ecological systems																											2.3Protection of social systems
Emily Monosson, Evolution in a Toxic World: How Life Responds to Chemical Threats (2012), p. 18.
This page was last edited on 8 March 2023, at 07:56 (UTC).
Non-porous overall suit to provide dermal protection from:Dry powders and solidsBlood-borne pathogens and bio-hazardsChemical splashes and inorganic acid/base aerosolsMild liquid chemical splashes from toxics and corrosivesToxic industrial chemicals and materials
Ronald L. Kathern and Paul L. Ziemer, he First Fifty Years of Radiation Protection, physics.isu.edu
Existing exposure – defined as "...being those that already exist when a decision on control has to be taken".[6] These can be such as from naturally occurring radioactive materials which exist in the environment.
As early as 1902 William Herbert Rollins wrote almost despairingly that his warnings about the dangers involved in careless use of x-rays was not being heeded, either by industry or by his colleagues. By this time Rollins had proved that x-rays could kill experimental animals, could cause a pregnant guinea pig to abort, and that they could kill a fetus.[32][self-published source?] He also stressed that "animals vary in susceptibility to the external action of X-light" and warned that these differences be considered when patients were treated by means of x-rays.
^ [2] Selection, use and maintenance of portable monitoring instruments. UK HSE
[2] Selection, use and maintenance of portable monitoring instruments. UK HSE
Graded-Z shielding is a laminate of several materials with different Z values (atomic numbers) designed to protect against ionizing radiation. Compared to single-material shielding, the same mass of graded-Z shielding has been shown to reduce electron penetration over 60%.[17] It is commonly used in satellite-based particle detectors, offering several benefits:
Distance: Increasing distance reduces dose due to the inverse square law. Distance can be as simple as handling a source with forceps rather than fingers. For example, if a problem arise during fluoroscopic procedure step away from the patient if feasible.
The following table shows the main radiation-related quantities and units.
The ICRP recognises planned, emergency, and existing exposure situations, as described below;[3]
"Radiation Protection and Architecture Utilizing High Temperature Superconducting Magnets". NASA Johnson Space Center. Shayne Westover. 2012. Retrieved 2014-04-28.
There are many solutions to shielding against low-energy radiation exposure like low-energy X-rays. Lead shielding wear such as lead aprons can protect patients and clinicians from the potentially harmful radiation effects of day-to-day medical examinations. It is quite feasible to protect large surface areas of the body from radiation in the lower-energy spectrum because very little shielding material is required to provide the necessary protection. Recent studies show that copper shielding is far more effective than lead and is likely to replace it as the standard material for radiation shielding.[citation needed]
ICRP. "Report 103": Introduction. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
The ICRP uses the following overall principles for all controllable exposure situations.[7]
Emergency exposure – limits given for occupational and public exposure
Provides very pure, dry compressed air to full facepiece mask via a hose
ALARP is an acronym for an important principle in exposure to radiation and other occupational health risks and in the UK stands for "As Low As Reasonably Practicable".[12] The aim is to minimize the risk of radioactive exposure or other hazard while keeping in mind that some exposure may be acceptable in order to further the task at hand. The equivalent term ALARA, "As Low As Reasonably Achievable", is more commonly used outside the UK.
Advances in kilovoltage x-ray beam dosimetry by Hill et al in http://iopscience.iop.org/0031-9155/59/6/R183/article
4Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)—Radiation											Toggle Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)—Radiation subsection																					4.1Internal Contamination Protective Equipment																											4.2External Contamination Protective Equipment																											4.3External penetrating radiation
SCBA type escape respirators have an attached source of breathing air and a hood that provides a barrier against contaminated outside air
Spacecraft, both robotic and crewed, must cope with the high radiation environment of outer space. Radiation emitted by the Sun and other galactic sources, and trapped in radiation "belts" is more dangerous and hundreds of times more intense than radiation sources such as medical X-rays or normal cosmic radiation usually experienced on Earth.[26] When the intensely ionizing particles found in space strike human tissue, it can result in cell damage and may eventually lead to cancer.
^ Hrabak, M.; Padovan, R. S.; Kralik, M.; Ozretic, D.; Potocki, K. (July 2008). "Nikola Tesla and the Discovery of X-rays". RadioGraphics. 28 (4): 1189–92. doi:10.1148/rg.284075206. PMID 18635636.
To monitor the concentration of radioactive particles in ambient air, radioactive particulate monitoring instruments measure the concentration or presence of airborne materials.
^ a b Swensen, Stephen J.; Duncan, James R.; Gibson, Rosemary; Muething, Stephen E.; LeBuhn, Rebecca; Rexford, Jean; Wagner, Carol; Smith, Stephen R.; DeMers, Becky (2014). "An Appeal for Safe and Appropriate Imaging of Children". Journal of Patient Safety. 10 (3): 121–124. doi:10.1097/pts.0000000000000116. PMID 24988212. S2CID 33270800.
Fundamental to radiation protection is the avoidance or reduction of dose using the simple protective measures of time, distance and shielding. The duration of exposure should be limited to that necessary, the distance from the source of radiation should be maximised, and the source or the target shielded wherever possible. To measure personal dose uptake in occupational or emergency exposure, for external radiation personal dosimeters are used, and for internal dose to due to ingestion of radioactive contamination, bioassay techniques are applied.
Cosmic radiation is not a common concern on Earth, as the Earth's atmosphere absorbs it and the magnetosphere acts as a shield, but it poses a significant problem for satellites and astronauts, especially while passing through the Van Allen Belt or while completely outside the protective regions of the Earth's magnetosphere. Frequent fliers may be at a slightly higher risk because of the decreased absorption from thinner atmosphere. Cosmic radiation is extremely high energy, and is very penetrating.
Electromagnetic radiation consists of emissions of electromagnetic waves, the properties of which depend on the wavelength.
^ ICRP. "Report 103": para 253. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Dosimeters can be worn to obtain a whole body dose and there are also specialist types that can be worn on the fingers or clipped to headgear, to measure the localised body irradiation for specific activities.
Swensen, Stephen J.; Duncan, James R.; Gibson, Rosemary; Muething, Stephen E.; LeBuhn, Rebecca; Rexford, Jean; Wagner, Carol; Smith, Stephen R.; DeMers, Becky (2014). "An Appeal for Safe and Appropriate Imaging of Children". Journal of Patient Safety. 10 (3): 121–124. doi:10.1097/pts.0000000000000116. PMID 24988212. S2CID 33270800.
Society for Radiological Protection – The principal UK body concerned with promoting the science and practice of radiation protection. It is the UK national affiliated body to IRPA
Atmost any material can act as a shield from gamma or x-rays if used in sufficient amounts. Different types of ionizing radiation interact in different ways with shielding material. The effectiveness of shielding is dependent on stopping power, which varies with the type and energy of radiation and the shielding material used. Different shielding techniques are therefore used depending on the application and the type and energy of the radiation.
^ "Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in a Radiation Emergency - Radiation Emergency Medical Management". www.remm.nlm.gov. Retrieved 2018-06-21.
For radiation protection and dosimetry assessment the International Commission on Radiation Protection (ICRP) and International Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements (ICRU) publish recommendations and data which is used to calculate the biological effects on the human body of certain levels of radiation, and thereby advise acceptable dose uptake limits.
In some cases, improper shielding can actually make the situation worse, when the radiation interacts with the shielding material and creates secondary radiation that absorbs in the organisms more readily. For example, although high atomic number materials are very effective in shielding photons, using them to shield beta particles may cause higher radiation exposure due to the production of Bremsstrahlung x-rays, and hence low atomic number materials are recommended. Also, using a material with a high neutron activation cross section to shield neutrons will result in the shielding material itself becoming radioactive and hence more dangerous than if it were not present.
Particle radiation consists of a stream of charged or neutral particles, both charged ions and subatomic elementary particles. This includes solar wind, cosmic radiation, and neutron flux in nuclear reactors.
Venturi Sebastiano (2022). "Prevention of nuclear damage caused by iodine and cesium radionuclides to the thyroid, pancreas and other organs". Juvenis Scientia. 8 (2): 5–14. doi:10.32415/jscientia_2022_8_2_5-14. S2CID 250392484.
For ingested radioactive materials in food and drink, specialist laboratory radiometric assay methods are used to measure the concentration of such materials.[9]
Practical radiation measurement using calibrated radiation protection instruments is essential in evaluating the effectiveness of protection measures, and in assessing the radiation dose likely to be received by individuals. The measuring instruments for radiation protection are both "installed" (in a fixed position) and portable (hand-held or transportable).
In the United Kingdom the HSE has issued a user guidance note on selecting the correct radiation measurement instrument for the application concerned.[25] This covers all radiation instrument technologies, and is a useful comparative guide.
Justification: No unnecessary use of radiation is permitted, which means that the advantages must outweigh the disadvantages.
Transportable instruments are generally instruments that would have been permanently installed, but are temporarily placed in an area to provide continuous monitoring where it is likely there will be a hazard. Such instruments are often installed on trolleys to allow easy deployment, and are associated with temporary operational situations.
There are three factors that control the amount, or dose, of radiation received from a source. Radiation exposure can be managed by a combination of these factors:
The risk from a low level internal source is represented by the dose quantity committed dose, which has the same risk as the same amount of external effective dose.
The area radiation monitor will measure the ambient radiation, usually X-Ray, Gamma or neutrons; these are radiations that can have significant radiation levels over a range in excess of tens of metres from their source, and thereby cover a wide area.
"Occupational Radiation Protection in Severe Accident Management" (PDF). The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA).
The public information dose chart of the USA Department of Energy, shown here on the right, applies to USA regulation, which is based on ICRP recommendations. Note that examples in lines 1 to 4 have a scale of dose rate (radiation per unit time), whilst 5 and 6 have a scale of total accumulated dose.
The ICRP recommends a number of limits for dose uptake in table 8 of ICRP report 103. These limits are "situational", for planned, emergency and existing situations. Within these situations, limits are given for certain exposed groups;[10]
Active Shielding, that is, using magnets, high voltages, or artificial magnetospheres to slow down or deflect radiation, has been considered to potentially combat radiation in a feasible way. So far, the cost of equipment, power and weight of active shielding equipment outweigh their benefits. For example, active radiation equipment would need a habitable volume size to house it, and magnetic and electrostatic configurations often are not homogeneous in intensity, allowing high-energy particles to penetrate the magnetic and electric fields from low-intensity parts, like cusps in dipolar magnetic field of Earth. As of 2012, NASA is undergoing research in superconducting magnetic architecture for potential active shielding applications.[28]
Neutron radiation is not as readily absorbed as charged particle radiation, which makes this type highly penetrating. In a process called neutron activation, neutrons are absorbed by nuclei of atoms in a nuclear reaction. This most often creates a secondary radiation hazard, as the absorbing nuclei transmute to the next-heavier isotope, many of which are unstable.
Harvard University Radiation Protection Office Providing radiation guidance to Harvard University and affiliated institutions.
ICRP, International Commission on Radiological Protection. "Dose limits". ICRPedia. ICRP. Retrieved 2 November 2017.
ICRP. "Report 103": para 253. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Optimization: This process is intended for application to those situations that have been deemed to be justified. It means "the likelihood of incurring exposures, the number of people exposed, and the magnitude of their individual doses" should all be kept As Low As Reasonably Achievable (or Reasonably Practicable) known as ALARA or ALARP. It takes into account economic and societal factors.
Time: Reducing the time of an exposure reduces the effective dose proportionally. An example of reducing radiation doses by reducing the time of exposures might be improving operator training to reduce the time they take to handle a radioactive source.
CBLB502, 'Protectan', a radioprotectant drug under development for its ability to protect cells during radiotherapy.
^ Sansare, K.; Khanna, V.; Karjodkar, F. (2011). "Early victims of X-rays: a tribute and current perception". Dentomaxillofacial Radiology. 40 (2): 123–125. doi:10.1259/dmfr/73488299. ISSN 0250-832X. PMC 3520298. PMID 21239576.
^ Pia, Maria Grazia;et al. (2009). "PIXE Simulation with Geant4". IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science. 56 (6): 3614–3649. Bibcode:2009ITNS...56.3614P. doi:10.1109/TNS.2009.2033993. S2CID 41649806.
^ "Image Gently". www.imagegently.org. Alliance for Radiation Safety in Pediatric Imaging (the Image Gently Alliance). Retrieved 2016-02-08.
Planned exposure – defined as "...where radiological protection can be planned in advance, before exposures occur, and where the magnitude and extent of the exposures can be reasonably predicted."[4] These are such as in occupational exposure situations, where it is necessary for personnel to work in a known radiation environment.
^ ICRP. "Report 103": para 274. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ ICRP. "Report 103": Table 8, section 6.5. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) includes all clothing and accessories which can be worn to prevent severe illness and injury as a result of exposure to radioactive material. These include an SR100 (protection for 1hr), SR200 (protection for 2 hours). Because radiation can affect humans through internal and external contamination, various protection strategies have been developed to protect humans from the harmful effects of radiation exposure from a spectrum of sources.[22] A few of these strategies developed to shield from internal, external, and high energy radiation are outlined below.
Monument to the X-ray and Radium Martyrs of All Nations
Shielding reduces the intensity of radiation, increasing with thickness. This is an exponential relationship with gradually diminishing effect as equal slices of shielding material are added. A quantity known as the halving-thicknesses is used to calculate this. For example, a practical shield in a fallout shelter with ten halving-thicknesses of packed dirt, which is roughly 115 cm (3 ft 9 in), reduces gamma rays to 1/1024 of their original intensity (i.e. 2−10).
The occupational hazards from airborne radioactive particles in nuclear and radio-chemical applications are greatly reduced by the extensive use of gloveboxes to contain such material. To protect against breathing in radioactive particles in ambient air, respirators with particulate filters are worn.
Geoff Meggitt (2008), Taming the Rays - A history of Radiation and Protection., Lulu.com, ISBN 978-1-4092-4667-1[self-published source]
Designs vary, but typically involve a gradient from high-Z (usually tantalum) through successively lower-Z elements such as tin, steel, and copper, usually ending with aluminium. Sometimes even lighter materials such as polypropylene or boron carbide are used.[18][19]
Fan, W.C.;et al. (1996). "Shielding considerations for satellite microelectronics". IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science. 43 (6): 2790–2796. Bibcode:1996ITNS...43.2790F. doi:10.1109/23.556868.
Before the biological effects of radiation were known, many physicists and corporations began marketing radioactive substances as patent medicine in the form of glow-in-the-dark pigments. Examples were radium enema treatments, and radium-containing waters to be drunk as tonics. Marie Curie protested against this sort of treatment, warning that the effects of radiation on the human body were not well understood. Curie later died from aplastic anaemia, likely caused by exposure to ionizing radiation. By the 1930s, after a number of cases of bone necrosis and death of radium treatment enthusiasts, radium-containing medicinal products had been largely removed from the market (radioactive quackery).
Installed instruments are fixed in positions which are known to be important in assessing the general radiation hazard in an area. Examples are installed "area" radiation monitors, Gamma interlock monitors, personnel exit monitors, and airborne particulate monitors.
The immediate danger of intense exposure to high-energy gamma radiation is Acute Radiation Syndrome (ARS), a result of irreversible bone marrow damage. The concept of selective shielding is based in the regenerative potential of the hematopoietic stem cells found in bone marrow. The regenerative quality of stem cells make it only necessary to protect enough bone marrow to repopulate the body with unaffected stem cells after the exposure: a similar concept which is applied in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), which is a common treatment for patients with leukemia. This scientific advancement allows for the development of a new class of relatively lightweight protective equipment that shields high concentrations of bone marrow to defer the hematopoietic sub-syndrome of Acute Radiation Syndrome to much higher dosages.
Portable instruments are hand-held or transportable. The hand-held instrument is generally used as a survey meter to check an object or person in detail, or assess an area where no installed instrumentation exists. They can also be used for personnel exit monitoring or personnel contamination checks in the field. These generally measure alpha, beta or gamma, or combinations of these.
"Review on the characteristics of radiation detectors for dosimetry and imaging"
^ Smith, D.M.;et al. (2002). "The RHESSI Spectrometer". Solar Physics. 210 (1): 33–60. Bibcode:2002SoPh..210...33S. doi:10.1023/A:1022400716414. S2CID 122624882.
The ICRP's recommendations flow down to national and regional regulators, which have the opportunity to incorporate them into their own law; this process is shown in the accompanying block diagram. In most countries a national regulatory authority works towards ensuring a secure radiation environment in society by setting dose limitation requirements that are generally based on the recommendations of the ICRP.
"Biological shield". United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Retrieved 13 August 2010.
^ ICRP. "Report 103": Section 6. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
In a typical graded-Z shield, the high-Z layer effectively scatters protons and electrons. It also absorbs gamma rays, which produces X-ray fluorescence. Each subsequent layer absorbs the X-ray fluorescence of the previous material, eventually reducing the energy to a suitable level. Each decrease in energy produces Bremsstrahlung and Auger electrons, which are below the detector's energy threshold. Some designs also include an outer layer of aluminium, which may simply be the skin of the satellite. The effectiveness of a material as a biological shield is related to its cross-section for scattering and absorption, and to a first approximation is proportional to the total mass of material per unit area interposed along the line of sight between the radiation source and the region to be protected. Hence, shielding strength or "thickness" is conventionally measured in units of g/cm2. The radiation that manages to get through falls exponentially with the thickness of the shield. In x-ray facilities, walls surrounding the room with the x-ray generator may contain lead shielding such as lead sheets, or the plaster may contain barium sulfate. Operators view the target through a leaded glass screen, or if they must remain in the same room as the target, wear lead aprons.
^ "Understanding Space Radiation" (PDF). Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center. NASA. October 2002. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2004-10-30. Retrieved 2012-07-25. FS-2002-10-080-JSC
^ ICRP, International Commission on Radiological Protection. "Dose limits". ICRPedia. ICRP. Retrieved 2 November 2017.
^ Geoff Meggitt (2008), Taming the Rays - A history of Radiation and Protection., Lulu.com, ISBN 978-1-4092-4667-1[self-published source]
The UK National Physical Laboratory publishes a good practice guide through its Ionising Radiation Metrology Forum concerning the provision of such equipment and the methodology of calculating the alarm levels to be used.[24]
The dangers of radioactivity and radiation were not immediately recognized. The discovery of x‑rays in 1895 led to widespread experimentation by scientists, physicians, and inventors. Many people began recounting stories of burns, hair loss and worse in technical journals as early as 1896. In February of that year, Professor Daniel and Dr. Dudley of Vanderbilt University performed an experiment involving x-raying Dudley's head that resulted in his hair loss. A report by Dr. H.D. Hawks, a graduate of Columbia College, of his severe hand and chest burns in an x-ray demonstration, was the first of many other reports in Electrical Review.[29]
"Halving-thickness for various materials". The Compass DeRose Guide to Emergency Preparedness - Hardened Shelters.
^ ICRP. "Report 103": Introduction. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Designed for environments that are immediate health risks but contain no substances that can be absorbed by skin
^ Operational Monitoring Good Practice Guide "The Selection of Alarm Levels for Personnel Exit Monitors" Dec 2009 - National Physical Laboratory, Teddington UK [1]
Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed.
Limitation: Each individual must be protected against risks that are too great, through the application of individual radiation dose limits.
This page was last edited on 10 March 2023, at 00:22 (UTC).
Contains filters, cartridges, and canisters to provide increased protection and better filtration
The intake of radioactive material can occur through four pathways:
Many experimenters including Elihu Thomson at Thomas Edison's lab, William J. Morton, and Nikola Tesla also reported burns. Elihu Thomson deliberately exposed a finger to an x-ray tube over a period of time and experienced pain, swelling, and blistering.[30] Other effects, including ultraviolet rays and ozone were sometimes blamed for the damage.[31] Many physicists claimed that there were no effects from x-ray exposure at all.[30]
"Behind the scenes - NASA's Space Radiation Laboratory". NASA. 2003. Archived from the original on 2004-10-30. Retrieved 2012-07-25.
3Radiation protection											Toggle Radiation protection subsection																					3.1Particle radiation																											3.2Electromagnetic radiation
Internal contamination protection equipment protects against the inhalation and ingestion of radioactive material. Internal deposition of radioactive material result in direct exposure of radiation to organs and tissues inside the body. The respiratory protective equipment described below are designed to minimize the possibility of such material being inhaled or ingested as emergency workers are exposed to potentially radioactive environments.
"Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in a Radiation Emergency - Radiation Emergency Medical Management"
^ Seco, Joao; Clasie, Ben; Partridge, Mike (Oct 2014). "Review on the characteristics of radiation detectors for dosimetry and imaging". Physics in Medicine and Biology. 59 (20): R303–R347. Bibcode:2014PMB....59R.303S. doi:10.1088/0031-9155/59/20/R303. PMID 25229250. S2CID 4393848.
ICRP. "Report 103": para 274. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
This is the wording used by the national regulatory authority that coined the term, in turn derived from its enabling legislation: Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974: "Risk management: ALARP at a glance". London: Health and Safety Executive. Retrieved 13 February 2011. 'ALARP' is short for 'as low as reasonably practicable'
Internal dose, due to the inhalation or ingestion of radioactive substances, can result in stochastic or deterministic effects, depending on the amount of radioactive material ingested and other biokinetic factors.
ICRP. "Report 103": para 284. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ This is the wording used by the national regulatory authority that coined the term, in turn derived from its enabling legislation: Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974: "Risk management: ALARP at a glance". London: Health and Safety Executive. Retrieved 13 February 2011. 'ALARP' is short for 'as low as reasonably practicable'
^ a b "Behind the scenes - NASA's Space Radiation Laboratory". NASA. 2003. Archived from the original on 2004-10-30. Retrieved 2012-07-25.
Alpha particles (helium nuclei) are the least penetrating. Even very energetic alpha particles can be stopped by a single sheet of paper.
[3] - "The confusing world of radiation dosimetry" - M.A. Boyd, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. An account of chronological differences between USA and ICRP dosimetry systems.
This compromise is well illustrated in radiology. The application of radiation can aid the patient by providing doctors and other health care professionals with a medical diagnosis, but the exposure of the patient should be reasonably low enough to keep the statistical probability of cancers or sarcomas (stochastic effects) below an acceptable level, and to eliminate deterministic effects (e.g. skin reddening or cataracts). An acceptable level of incidence of stochastic effects is considered to be equal for a worker to the risk in other radiation work generally considered to be safe.
The ICRP recommends, develops and maintains the International System of Radiological Protection, based on evaluation of the large body of scientific studies available to equate risk to received dose levels. The system's health objectives are "to manage and control exposures to ionising radiation so that deterministic effects are prevented, and the risks of stochastic effects are reduced to the extent reasonably achievable".[2]
International Radiation Protection Association – (IRPA). The International body concerned with promoting the science and practice of radiation protection.
^ a b Ronald L. Kathern and Paul L. Ziemer, he First Fifty Years of Radiation Protection, physics.isu.edu
Ionizing radiation is widely used in industry and medicine, and can present a significant health hazard by causing microscopic damage to living tissue. There are two main categories of ionizing radiation health effects. At high exposures, it can cause "tissue" effects, also called "deterministic" effects due to the certainty of them happening, conventionally indicated by the unit gray and resulting in acute radiation syndrome. For low level exposures there can be statistically elevated risks of radiation-induced cancer, called "stochastic effects" due to the uncertainty of them happening, conventionally indicated by the unit sievert.
Journal of Solid State Phenomena Tara Ahmadi, Use of Semi-Dipole Magnetic Field for Spacecraft Radiation Protection.
Worn when entering environments immediately dangerous to life and health (IDLH) or when information is inadequate to rule out IDLH atmosphere
^ Historical Use of Thorium at Hanford Archived 2013-05-12 at the Wayback Machine
inhalation of airborne contaminants such as radon gas and radioactive particles
Find sources: "Radiation protection" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
The NASA Space Radiation Laboratory makes use of a particle accelerator that produces beams of protons or heavy ions. These ions are typical of those accelerated in cosmic sources and by the Sun. The beams of ions move through a 100 m (328-foot) transport tunnel to the 37 m2 (400-square-foot) shielded target hall. There, they hit the target, which may be a biological sample or shielding material.[26] In a 2002 NASA study, it was determined that materials that have high hydrogen contents, such as polyethylene, can reduce primary and secondary radiation to a greater extent than metals, such as aluminum.[27] The problem with this "passive shielding" method is that radiation interactions in the material generate secondary radiation.
^ Advances in kilovoltage x-ray beam dosimetry by Hill et al in http://iopscience.iop.org/0031-9155/59/6/R183/article
Radiation protection, also known as radiological protection, is defined by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) as "The protection of people from harmful effects of exposure to ionizing radiation, and the means for achieving this".[1] Exposure can be from a source of radiation external to the human body or due to internal irradiation caused by the ingestion of radioactive contamination.
^ ICRP. "Report 103": para 284. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ "Radiation Protection and Architecture Utilizing High Temperature Superconducting Magnets". NASA Johnson Space Center. Shayne Westover. 2012. Retrieved 2014-04-28.
The effectiveness of a shielding material in general increases with its atomic number, called Z, except for neutron shielding, which is more readily shielded by the likes of neutron absorbers and moderators such as compounds of boron e.g. boric acid, cadmium, carbon and hydrogen.
Ex-Rad, a United States Department of Defense radioprotectant drug under development.
The links should be followed for a fuller description of each.
Smith, D.M.;et al. (2002). "The RHESSI Spectrometer". Solar Physics. 210 (1): 33–60. Bibcode:2002SoPh..210...33S. doi:10.1023/A:1022400716414. S2CID 122624882.
Personal shielding against more energetic radiation such as gamma radiation is very difficult to achieve as the large mass of shielding material required to properly protect the entire body would make functional movement nearly impossible. For this, partial body shielding of radio-sensitive internal organs is the most viable protection strategy.
Gamma radiation "interlock monitors" are used in applications to prevent inadvertent exposure of workers to an excess dose by preventing personnel access to an area when a high radiation level is present. These interlock the process access directly.
Operational Monitoring Good Practice Guide "The Selection of Alarm Levels for Personnel Exit Monitors" Dec 2009 - National Physical Laboratory, Teddington UK [1]
5Radiation protection instruments											Toggle Radiation protection instruments subsection																					5.1Installed instruments																											5.2Portable instruments																											5.3Instrument types
The usual method for radiation protection is material shielding by spacecraft and equipment structures (usually aluminium), possibly augmented by polyethylene in human spaceflight where the main concern is high-energy protons and cosmic ray ions. On uncrewed spacecraft in high-electron-dose environments such as Jupiter missions, or medium Earth orbit (MEO), additional shielding with materials of a high atomic number can be effective. On long-duration crewed missions, advantage can be taken of the good shielding characteristics of liquid hydrogen fuel and water.
^ Venturi Sebastiano (2022). "Prevention of nuclear damage caused by iodine and cesium radionuclides to the thyroid, pancreas and other organs". Juvenis Scientia. 8 (2): 5–14. doi:10.32415/jscientia_2022_8_2_5-14. S2CID 250392484.
"Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in a Radiation Emergency - Radiation Emergency Medical Management". www.remm.nlm.gov. Retrieved 2018-06-21.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ICRP. Report 103. pp. para 29.
Protects wearer from breathing harmful gases, vapours, fumes, and dust
One technique is to apply selective shielding to protect the high concentration of bone marrow stored in the hips and other radio-sensitive organs in the abdominal area. This allows first responders a safe way to perform necessary missions in radioactive environments.[23]
Hrabak, M.; Padovan, R. S.; Kralik, M.; Ozretic, D.; Potocki, K. (July 2008). "Nikola Tesla and the Discovery of X-rays". RadioGraphics. 28 (4): 1189–92. doi:10.1148/rg.284075206. PMID 18635636.
Seco, Joao; Clasie, Ben; Partridge, Mike (Oct 2014). "Review on the characteristics of radiation detectors for dosimetry and imaging". Physics in Medicine and Biology. 59 (20): R303–R347. Bibcode:2014PMB....59R.303S. doi:10.1088/0031-9155/59/20/R303. PMID 25229250. S2CID 4393848.
Workers exposed to radiation, such as radiographers, nuclear power plant workers, doctors using radiotherapy, those in laboratories using radionuclides, and HAZMAT teams are required to wear dosimeters so a record of occupational exposure can be made. Such devices are generally termed "legal dosimeters" if they have been approved for use in recording personnel dose for regulatory purposes.
Can be designed as an air-purifying escape respirator (APER) or a self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) type respirator
"Image Gently". www.imagegently.org. Alliance for Radiation Safety in Pediatric Imaging (the Image Gently Alliance). Retrieved 2016-02-08.
ICRP. "Report 103": Section 6. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
X-ray and gamma radiation are best absorbed by atoms with heavy nuclei; the heavier the nucleus, the better the absorption. In some special applications, depleted uranium or thorium[21] are used, but lead is much more common; several cm are often required. Barium sulfate is used in some applications too. However, when the cost is important, almost any material can be used, but it must be far thicker. Most nuclear reactors use thick concrete shields to create a bioshield with a thin water-cooled layer of lead on the inside to protect the porous concrete from the coolant inside. The concrete is also made with heavy aggregates, such as Baryte or MagnaDense (Magnetite), to aid in the shielding properties of the concrete. Gamma rays are better absorbed by materials with high atomic numbers and high density, although neither effect is important compared to the total mass per area in the path of the gamma ray.
Porous overall suit—Dermal protection from aerosols, dry particles, and non hazardous liquids.
ICRP. "Report 103": Table 8, section 6.5. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
"Prevention of nuclear damage caused by iodine and cesium radionuclides to the thyroid, pancreas and other organs"
A number of commonly used detection instrument types are listed below, and are used for both fixed and survey monitoring.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Radiation protection" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
This policy is based on the principle that any amount of radiation exposure, no matter how small, can increase the chance of negative biological effects such as cancer. It is also based on the principle that the probability of the occurrence of negative effects of radiation exposure increases with cumulative lifetime dose. These ideas are combined to form the linear no-threshold model which says that there is not a threshold at which there is an increase in the rate of occurrence of stochastic effects with increasing dose. At the same time, radiology and other practices that involve use of ionizing radiation bring benefits, so reducing radiation exposure can reduce the efficacy of a medical practice. The economic cost, for example of adding a barrier against radiation, must also be considered when applying the ALARP principle. Computed Tomography, better known as C.T. Scans or CAT Scans have made an enormous contribution to medicine, however not without some risk. They use ionizing radiation which can cause cancer, especially in children.[13] When caregivers follow proper indications for their use and child safe techniques rather than adult techniques, downstream cancer can be prevented.[13][14]
Pia, Maria Grazia;et al. (2009). "PIXE Simulation with Geant4". IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science. 56 (6): 3614–3649. Bibcode:2009ITNS...56.3614P. doi:10.1109/TNS.2009.2033993. S2CID 41649806.
United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation
Ultraviolet (UV) radiation is ionizing in its shortest wavelengths but is not penetrating, so it can be shielded by thin opaque layers such as sunscreen, clothing, and protective eyewear. Protection from UV is simpler than for the other forms of radiation above, so it is often considered separately.
Designed for environments that are immediate health risks and contain substances that can be absorbed by skin
absorption of vapours such as tritium oxide through the skin
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ICRP. Report 103. pp. para 29.
"Understanding Space Radiation" (PDF). Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center. NASA. October 2002. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2004-10-30. Retrieved 2012-07-25. FS-2002-10-080-JSC
Shielding: Sources of radiation can be shielded with solid or liquid material, which absorbs the energy of the radiation. The term 'biological shield' is used for absorbing material placed around a nuclear reactor, or other source of radiation, to reduce the radiation to a level safe for humans. The shielding materials are concrete and lead shield which is 0.25mm thick for secondary radiation and 0.5mm thick for primary radiation[8]
^ Fan, W.C.;et al. (1996). "Shielding considerations for satellite microelectronics". IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science. 43 (6): 2790–2796. Bibcode:1996ITNS...43.2790F. doi:10.1109/23.556868.
1Principles											Toggle Principles subsection																					1.1Exposure situations																											1.2Regulation of dose uptake																											1.3Factors in external dose uptake																											1.4Internal dose uptake																											1.5Recommended limits on dose uptake																											1.6ALARP & ALARA
^ "Occupational Radiation Protection in Severe Accident Management" (PDF). The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA).
Sansare, K.; Khanna, V.; Karjodkar, F. (2011). "Early victims of X-rays: a tribute and current perception". Dentomaxillofacial Radiology. 40 (2): 123–125. doi:10.1259/dmfr/73488299. ISSN 0250-832X. PMC 3520298. PMID 21239576.
^ "Biological shield". United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Retrieved 13 August 2010.
Historical Use of Thorium at Hanford Archived 2013-05-12 at the Wayback Machine
Emergency exposure – defined as "...unexpected situations that may require urgent protective actions".[5] This would be such as an emergency nuclear event.
Planned exposure – limits given for occupational, medical and public exposure. The occupational exposure limit of effective dose is 20 mSv per year, averaged over defined periods of 5 years, with no single year exceeding 50 mSv. The public exposure limit is 1 mSv in a year.[11]
Compressed air delivered from a stationary source to the face piece
Beta particles (electrons) are more penetrating, but still can be absorbed by a few millimetres of aluminium. However, in cases where high-energy beta particles are emitted, shielding must be accomplished with low atomic weight materials, e.g. plastic, wood, water, or acrylic glass (Plexiglas, Lucite).[20] This is to reduce generation of Bremsstrahlung X-rays. In the case of beta+ radiation (positrons), the gamma radiation from the electron–positron annihilation reaction poses additional concern.
