On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society
Smoler, Fredric (March 1989). "The Secret Of The Soldiers Who Didn't Shoot". American Heritage. Vol. 40, no. 2. Retrieved 24 February 2019.
Woodward, David R. (2009). World War I Almanac. Infobase Publishing. p. 28. ISBN 9781438118963.
^ Engen, Robert. "Killing for Their Country: A New Look At "Killology"". Canadian Military Journal. 9 (2). Archived from the original on 21 July 2011. Retrieved 8 May 2011. As a military historian, I am instinctively skeptical of any work or theory that claims to overturn all existing scholarship – indeed, overturn an entire academic discipline – in one fell swoop...[however] Lieutenant Colonel Grossman's appeals to biology and psychology are flawed, and that the bulwark of his historical evidence – S.L.A. Marshall's assertion that soldiers do not fire their weapons – can be verifiably disproven.
^ Garreau, Joseph E. "From French to English:Surprising Etymology". Department of Languages of the UMASS Lowell. Retrieved 16 December 2015.
^ Woodward, David R. (2009). World War I Almanac. Infobase Publishing. p. 28. ISBN 9781438118963.
Spiller, Roger J. (Winter 1988). "S.L.A. Marshall and the Ratio of Fire". RUSI Journal. pp. 63–71. Archived from the original on 10 December 2005 – via War Chronicle.
Engen, Robert. "Killing for Their Country: A New Look At "Killology"". Canadian Military Journal. 9 (2). Archived from the original on 21 July 2011. Retrieved 8 May 2011. As a military historian, I am instinctively skeptical of any work or theory that claims to overturn all existing scholarship – indeed, overturn an entire academic discipline – in one fell swoop...[however] Lieutenant Colonel Grossman's appeals to biology and psychology are flawed, and that the bulwark of his historical evidence – S.L.A. Marshall's assertion that soldiers do not fire their weapons – can be verifiably disproven.
^ Smoler, Fredric (March 1989). "The Secret Of The Soldiers Who Didn't Shoot". American Heritage. Vol. 40, no. 2. Retrieved 24 February 2019.
^ Engen, Robert Charles (March 2008). Canadians Against Fire: Canada's Soldiers and Marshall's "Ratio of Fire" 1944-1945 (PDF) (Thesis). Kingston, Ontario: Queen's University. p. 142. hdl:1974/1081. Retrieved 24 February 2019.
^ Norton-Taylor, Richard (16 August 2006). "Executed WW1 soldiers to be given pardons". The Guardian. Guardian News & Media Limited. Retrieved 24 February 2019.
Acts of cowardice have long been punishable by military law, which defines a wide range of cowardly offenses, including desertion in face of the enemy and surrendering to the enemy against orders. The punishment for such acts is typically severe, ranging from corporal punishment to the death sentence.
"Call to rethink cases of French WWI 'coward' soldiers". BBC News. BBC. 1 October 2013. Retrieved 24 February 2019.
According to the Online Etymology Dictionary, the word coward came into English from the Old French word coart (modern French couard), which is a combination of the word for "tail" (Modern French queue, Latin cauda) and an agent noun suffix. It would therefore have meant "one with a tail", which may conjure an image of an animal displaying its tail in flight of fear ("turning tail"), or a dog's habit of putting its tail between its legs when it is afraid. Like many other English words of French origin, this word was introduced in the English language by the French-speaking Normans, after the Norman conquest of England in 1066.[4]
In German, the word translates into "Feigling" and "Weichei", the latter of which translates back to "soft egg" in literal.
The English surname Coward (as in Noël Coward), however, has the same origin and meaning as the word "cowherd".
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Cowardly definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary". www.collinsdictionary.com. Retrieved 5 July 2019.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Cowardly definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary". www.collinsdictionary.com. Retrieved 5 July 2019.
"10 U.S. Code § 899 - Art. 99. Misbehavior before the enemy"
Garreau, Joseph E. "From French to English:Surprising Etymology". Department of Languages of the UMASS Lowell. Retrieved 16 December 2015.
^ "cowardice". Dictionary.reference.com. reference.com. Lexico Publishing Group, LLC. Archived from the original on 28 April 2007. Retrieved 24 February 2019. [the] lack of courage to face danger, difficulty, opposition, pain, etc.
Considerable controversy was generated by military historian S.L.A. Marshall, who claimed[when?] that 75 % of U.S. combat troops in World War II never fired at the enemy for the purpose of killing, even while under direct threat.Author Dave Grossman attempted to explain these findings in his book On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society. Marshall's findings were later[when?] challenged as mistaken or even fabricated,[9][10][11] and were not replicated in a more rigorous study of Canadian troops in World War II.[12]
Norton-Taylor, Richard (16 August 2006). "Executed WW1 soldiers to be given pardons". The Guardian. Guardian News & Media Limited. Retrieved 24 February 2019.
The United States military codes of justice define cowardice in combat as a crime punishable by death (note the phrase "shot at dawn").[5]
Canadians Against Fire: Canada's Soldiers and Marshall's "Ratio of Fire" 1944-1945
^ Spiller, Roger J. (Winter 1988). "S.L.A. Marshall and the Ratio of Fire". RUSI Journal. pp. 63–71. Archived from the original on 10 December 2005 – via War Chronicle.
Engen, Robert Charles (March 2008). Canadians Against Fire: Canada's Soldiers and Marshall's "Ratio of Fire" 1944-1945 (PDF) (Thesis). Kingston, Ontario: Queen's University. p. 142. hdl:1974/1081. Retrieved 24 February 2019.
Generally, cowardice was punishable by execution during World War I, and those who were caught were often court-martialed and, in many cases, executed by firing squad. British soldiers executed for cowardice were often not commemorated on war memorials, and their families often did not receive benefits and had to endure social stigma.[6][7] However, many decades later, those soldiers all received posthumous pardons in the UK Armed Forces Act 2006 and have been commemorated with the Shot at Dawn Memorial. Unlike British, Canadian, French, German, and Soviet/Russian forces, the U.S. military tried soldiers for cowardice, but never followed through with execution while German commanders were less inclined to use execution as a form of punishment. [8]
"cowardice". Dictionary.reference.com. reference.com. Lexico Publishing Group, LLC. Archived from the original on 28 April 2007. Retrieved 24 February 2019. [the] lack of courage to face danger, difficulty, opposition, pain, etc.
"10 U.S. Code § 899 - Art. 99. Misbehavior before the enemy". LII / Legal Information Institute. Retrieved 19 August 2020.
This page was last edited on 7 March 2023, at 08:08 (UTC).
^ "10 U.S. Code § 899 - Art. 99. Misbehavior before the enemy". LII / Legal Information Institute. Retrieved 19 August 2020.
^ "Call to rethink cases of French WWI 'coward' soldiers". BBC News. BBC. 1 October 2013. Retrieved 24 February 2019.
Others (books #39-43)																																							The Hidden Valley of Oz																															Merry Go Round in Oz																															The Emerald Wand of Oz																															Trouble Under Oz																															Sky Pyrates over Oz
By L. Frank Baum (books #1-10)																																							The Wonderful Wizard of Oz																															The Marvelous Land of Oz																															Ozma of Oz																															Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz																															The Road to Oz																															The Emerald City of Oz																															The Patchwork Girl of Oz																															Tik-Tok of Oz																															The Scarecrow of Oz																															Rinkitink in Oz
By Ruth Plumly Thompson (books #26-33)																																							The Purple Prince of Oz																															Ojo in Oz																															Speedy in Oz																															The Wishing Horse of Oz																															Captain Salt in Oz																															Handy Mandy in Oz																															The Silver Princess in Oz																															Ozoplaning with the Wizard of Oz
By John R. Neill (books #34-36)																																							The Wonder City of Oz																															The Scalawagons of Oz																															Lucky Bucky in Oz
Characters																																														Dorothy Gale																																	Scarecrow																																	Cowardly Lion																																	Tin Woodman																																	Glinda																																	Wizard of Oz																																	More...
This is a disambiguation page for the Cowardly Lion who sought courage from the Wizard of Oz and became King of the Forest. He is occasionally referred to simply as Lion given that he much less fearful.
By Jack Snow (books #37-38)																																							The Magical Mimics in Oz																															The Shaggy Man of Oz
By L. Frank Baum (books #11-14)																																							The Lost Princess of Oz																															The Tin Woodman of Oz																															The Magic of Oz																															Glinda of Oz
Community																																														New pictures																																	New articles																																	Current events																																	Recent blog posts
By Ruth Plumly Thompson (books #15-25)																																							The Royal Book of Oz																															Kabumpo in Oz																															The Cowardly Lion of Oz																															Grampa in Oz																															The Lost King of Oz																															The Hungry Tiger of Oz																															The Gnome King of Oz																															The Giant Horse of Oz																															Jack Pumpkinhead of Oz																															The Yellow Knight of Oz
Explore																																														Main Page																																	Discuss																																	All Pages																																	Community																																	Interactive Maps																																	Recent Blog Posts
Books																																														By L. Frank Baum (books #1-10)																																							The Wonderful Wizard of Oz																															The Marvelous Land of Oz																															Ozma of Oz																															Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz																															The Road to Oz																															The Emerald City of Oz																															The Patchwork Girl of Oz																															Tik-Tok of Oz																															The Scarecrow of Oz																															Rinkitink in Oz																																																By L. Frank Baum (books #11-14)																																							The Lost Princess of Oz																															The Tin Woodman of Oz																															The Magic of Oz																															Glinda of Oz																																																By Ruth Plumly Thompson (books #15-25)																																							The Royal Book of Oz																															Kabumpo in Oz																															The Cowardly Lion of Oz																															Grampa in Oz																															The Lost King of Oz																															The Hungry Tiger of Oz																															The Gnome King of Oz																															The Giant Horse of Oz																															Jack Pumpkinhead of Oz																															The Yellow Knight of Oz																																																By Ruth Plumly Thompson (books #26-33)																																							The Purple Prince of Oz																															Ojo in Oz																															Speedy in Oz																															The Wishing Horse of Oz																															Captain Salt in Oz																															Handy Mandy in Oz																															The Silver Princess in Oz																															Ozoplaning with the Wizard of Oz																																																By John R. Neill (books #34-36)																																							The Wonder City of Oz																															The Scalawagons of Oz																															Lucky Bucky in Oz																																																By Jack Snow (books #37-38)																																							The Magical Mimics in Oz																															The Shaggy Man of Oz																																																Others (books #39-43)																																							The Hidden Valley of Oz																															Merry Go Round in Oz																															The Emerald Wand of Oz																															Trouble Under Oz																															Sky Pyrates over Oz
In the 2007 VeggieTales episode The Wonderful Wizard of Ha's, he is renamed the "Hungry Lion" who was played by Pa Grape. His Kansas counterpart from the 1939 film also appeared in this Christian cartoon.
The Cowardly Lion is a character in the fictional Land of Oz created by American author L. Frank Baum.[1] He is depicted as an African lion, but like all animals in Oz, he can speak.
Sotheby's Entertainment & Memorabilia Auction Beverly Hills, CA – May 21, 1997
Lahr also portrayed the Lion's Kansas counterpart, Zeke (one of Aunt Em and Uncle Henry's farmworkers). Screenwriter Noel Langley created this character for the film.[4] Zeke helps Hickory (Tin Man's alter ego) lower a bed into its place on a wagon at the farm. He then moves the hogs into the pig pen and pours feed into their trough. When Dorothy falls off the railing that encircles the pen, Zeke jumps in and rescues her. With Dorothy safe, Zeke sits down beside the pen, breathing heavily and seemingly about to faint. The others realize that he had been afraid of the pigs, and playfully mock him. Zeke wears his hat throughout the entire film because he does not struggle to open the cellar when the tornado approaches the farm. Hunk (Scarecrow's alter ego) closes and locks the cellar with him when Dorothy arrives at the farmhouse. Zeke and Professor Marvel (The Wizard's alter ego) are the only men wearing hats when Dorothy awakens from being unconscious.
In the 1985 spiritual sequel to The Wizard of Oz, the Cowardly Lion is briefly seen at the end of the film. Unlike the 1939 film, this version is a puppet and walks on all fours.[citation needed] He is also shown growling rather than speaking.
CNN Money "Cowardly Lion costume sells for $3.1 Million" November 24, 2014
^ a b c "The History Channel documentary on the Cowardly Lion costume". YouTube.
"Home", a 2002 song from American rock band Breaking Benjamin, references a "cowardly lion" in its lyrics.
In the original Oz books, the Lion's origins were never explicitly stated. However, many works since then have either hinted at or revealed elements of backstory for the Cowardly Lion. Partly due to the large amount of written material about Oz, many of these stories are contradictory to each other or to the "Famous Forty" Oz books, and many fans do not accept them as canonical. The canonical books give no indication the Lion did not originate in Oz, essentially as a normal, if unique, lion.
In 2019, The Cowardly Lion appears in The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part. Alongside Dorothy and her friends, the Cowardly Lion is somehow transported from the Land of Oz to Harmony Town in the Systar System.
In the 2005 ABC television film The Muppets' Wizard of Oz, Fozzie Bear plays the role of the Lion. Fozzie's other role is himself. He shows up at the end of this film in the Muppets' show.
Another costume currently resides in the Comisar Collection, the largest collection of television artifacts in the world.[10][11] Curator James Comisar acquired the costume, after verifying to his satisfaction that it had been worn in the film, and set about restoring it.[12] The major challenge was the weight of the tail caused rips across the back of the costume that needed to be patched, which was done by Cara Varnell, a textile conservation expert at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.[13] The Cowardly Lion's original facial appliances had been glued directly to Bert Lahr's face and did not survive the production,[13] so Comisar asked Lahr's son, Herbert, to model for another face cast, as he had an uncanny resemblance to his father.[13] Herbert Lahr remarked:
The Cowardly Lion appeared in the animated film Legends of Oz: Dorothy's Return (which is based on Dorothy of Oz), voiced by Jim Belushi.
Land of OzEmerald CityMunchkin CountryGillikin CountryWinkie CountryQuadling CountryYellow brick road
The Cowardly Lion makes his first appearance in the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. He is the last of the companions Dorothy befriends on her way to the Emerald City where he ambushes her, Toto, Scarecrow, and Tin Woodman. When he tries to bite Toto, Dorothy slaps him. She calls the Lion a coward and the Lion admits that he is. The Cowardly Lion joins her so that he can ask The Wizard for courage, ashamed that he is not brave enough to play his cultural role of the King of the Beasts.[2] Despite outward evidence that he is unreasonably fearful, The Cowardly Lion displays great bravery along the way. During the journey, he leaps across a chasm on the road of yellow brick multiple times, each time with a companion on his back, and then leaps back to get the next one. When they come into another, wider chasm, the Cowardly Lion holds off two Kalidahs while the Tin Woodman cuts a tall tree to cross it. In spite of his fears, he still goes off to hunt for his food, and he even offers to kill a deer for Dorothy to eat, but the idea makes her uncomfortable.
"The Oprah Winfrey Show episode "America's Fascination with Hollywood Memorabilia"". Facebook.
"King of Forest rules at auction; Somebody put up $826,000 to buy the Cowardly Lion costume from a Twin Cities artist"
In the TV 2017 series Emerald City, the Cowardly Lion analogue is Eamonn and is portrayed by Mido Hamada. He is presented as unquestioningly loyal member of the Wizard's Guard who is personally tasked with finding Dorothy before she reaches Emerald City and doing whatever it takes to prevent the return of the Beast Forever. As the series unfolds, he is revealed to have assisted the Wizard of Oz in killing the Royal Family of Oz when the Wizard first came to power, but initially spared the princess Ozma as she reminded him of his own daughter. When Ozma learns of her past and assumes her role as leader of Oz, she punishes Eammon by condemning him to be trapped in the form of a beast, turning him into a Lion due to the lion mask he wore when killing her family.
The Wizard gives him a dish of unknown liquid, telling him it is "courage" to drink. In the remainder of the book, the Lion becomes almost like a bully and ready to fight. He accompanies Dorothy on her journey to see Glinda, and allows his friends to stand on his back in order to escape the Dainty China Country, where he damages the only church mentioned in an Oz book until Handy Mandy in Oz (1937).
The Cowardly Lion appears in 2012 film Dorothy and the Witches of Oz, played by Barry Ratcliffe. He appears on Earth in the form of Dorothy Gale's lawyer Bryan Jennings.
This page was last edited on 14 February 2023, at 23:58 (UTC).
William Stillman, a noted historian and co-author of several books about the film, featured a full-page photograph of this Cowardly Lion costume in his book, The Wizardry of Oz: The Artistry and the Magic of the M.G.M. 1939 Classic. The accompanying text states, "While Bert Lahr appears to wear the same costume throughout the picture, others were available for dress rehearsals or for the stunt double to bound onto the Yellow Brick Road, leap through a window in the Emerald City, or scale the cliffs outside the Witch’s castle."[17] In 1998, both Comisar and auctioneering company Profiles in History, on behalf of Mack, insisted they had Lahr's costume.[18]
The Cowardly Lion makes a brief cameo in Oz: The Great and Powerful, as a CGI character. He briefly tries to attack Oz (played by James Franco) and his monkey companion Finley (voiced by Zach Braff), but Oz uses his magic to create a velvet fog that intimidates the lion, causing him to immediately retreat.
In 1996, they made an animated cartoon series The Oz Kids. The Cowardly Lion (voiced by unknown) rules the kingdom to the south of Emerald City, Quadling Country and has two cubs, Bela and Boris. His son Boris is afraid of things just like his father.
The movie was made by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, which uses a lion as its mascot. In fact, MGM even considered using their mascot for the role of the Cowardly Lion.
In a 1979 episode of The World's Greatest Super Friends, Wonder Woman temporarily became the Lion after a tornado took her, Superman, and Aquaman to Oz. While passing Mister Mxyzptlk’s dangerous landscape, she had lower legs of an African lion. She did not get returned to normal until she reached the Wizard (Mister Mxyzptlk himself) with Superman and Aquaman.
^ a b c d David Allen Ibsen (January 1, 2007). "Cowardly, but Costly: Wizard of Oz's Cowardly Lion Costume Auctioned-off on eBay". Archived from the original on June 7, 2011. Retrieved June 29, 2011.
The cowardly lion is in fact brave, but hedoubts himself.In many scenes in this classic book and film, the Lion shows bravery in the face of danger, similar to the Scarecrow, who wants a brain whilst he is the smartest one, and the Tin Man, who wants a heart but cries to his detriment when he does anything remotely mean by accident and rusts himself still.
^ Jack Snow, Who's Who in Oz, Chicago, Reilly & Lee, 1954; New York, Peter Bedrick Books, 1988; p. 46. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 0-87226-188-3
The Wizard of Oz: Beyond the Yellow Brick Road (2008)
^ "The Oprah Winfrey Show episode "America's Fascination with Hollywood Memorabilia"". Facebook.
David Allen Ibsen (January 1, 2007). "Cowardly, but Costly: Wizard of Oz's Cowardly Lion Costume Auctioned-off on eBay". Archived from the original on June 7, 2011. Retrieved June 29, 2011.
"Ann Curry interview with James Comisar on The Today Show". tvtour.org. Archived from the original on 2011-11-07. Retrieved 2011-06-29.
L. Frank Baum,The Annotated Wizard of Oz, Michael Patrick Hearn, ed., New York, Crown, 1976; p. 148. ISBN 0-517-50086-8
Wickedawards and nominationsalbumWannabe WickedA Very Wicked HalloweenWicked: Part One (film)
^ John M. Glionna (May 22, 1997). "Lights, Camera, Auction". Los Angeles Times.
^ a b Chuck Haga (December 19, 2006). "King of Forest rules at auction; Somebody put up $826,000 to buy the Cowardly Lion costume from a Twin Cities artist". Star Tribune.
The Wizardry of Oz: The Artistry and the Magic of the M.G.M 1939 Classic, William Stillman and Jay Scarfone
In the 1914 film His Majesty, the Scarecrow of Oz, the Cowardly Lion was played by Fred Woodward.
^ a b c d "TLC's Hunt for Amazing Treasure April 27, 2004 episode". tvtour.org. Archived from the original on March 26, 2012. Retrieved June 29, 2011.
In a 1981 episode of Scooby-Doo and Scrappy-Doo, Scooby is dressed as the Lion after a tornado took him, Shaggy, and Scrappy to "Ahz", a direct spoof of Oz with a different spelling by its enunciation.
2Film portrayals											Toggle Film portrayals subsection																					2.1His Majesty, the Scarecrow of Oz																											2.2The Wizard of Oz (1925)																											2.3The Wizard of Oz (1939)																								2.3.1Cowardly Lion Courage Medal																											2.3.2Cowardly Lion costumes																														2.4The Wiz																											2.5Return to Oz																											2.6The Oz Kids																											2.7Legends of Oz: Dorothy's Return																											2.8Oz: The Great and Powerful
Some historians, such as Henry M. Littlefield in American Quarterly,[19] have suggested that Baum modeled the Cowardly Lion after politician William Jennings Bryan, or politicians in general.
Jack Snow, Who's Who in Oz, Chicago, Reilly & Lee, 1954; New York, Peter Bedrick Books, 1988; p. 46. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 0-87226-188-3
"The Oprah Winfrey Show episode "America's Fascination with Hollywood Memorabilia""
2.3The Wizard of Oz (1939)																								2.3.1Cowardly Lion Courage Medal																											2.3.2Cowardly Lion costumes
The Cowardly Lion appears in the Once Upon a Time 2017 episode "Where Bluebirds Fly". Though he doesn't speak, the Cowardly Lion still has his traits. The Cowardly Lion was a line of defense for the Crimson Heart that is sought out by Stanum and Zelena. After the Cowardly Lion attacks Stanum, he is driven away by Zelena.
"Cowardly, but Costly: Wizard of Oz's Cowardly Lion Costume Auctioned-off on eBay"
^ L. Frank Baum,The Annotated Wizard of Oz, Michael Patrick Hearn, ed., New York, Crown, 1976; p. 148. ISBN 0-517-50086-8
The book Lion of Oz and the Badge of Courage and its accompanying animated feature, Lion of Oz, show the Lion as having grown up in a circus in America. His caretaker, Oscar Diggs, was the man who would become the Wizard of Oz; this man took the Lion on a balloon ride one night, which resulted in the two becoming stranded in Oz.
^ CNN Money "Cowardly Lion costume sells for $3.1 Million" November 24, 2014
In 2017, The Cowardly Lion appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz, voiced again by Jess Harnell.
John M. Glionna (May 22, 1997). "Lights, Camera, Auction". Los Angeles Times.
Although not a direct adaptation to the literature itself, the 2013 Super Sentai series, Zyuden Sentai Kyoryuger features the Deboth Army's members being themed after the characters in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. Raging Knight Dogold is designed with the motif of the Cowardly Lion, whose loss of Utsusemimaru as his host parallels his source of inspiration joining Dorothy to earn courage.
^ Gerald Leinwand, William Jennings Bryan: An Uncertain Trumpet, Lanham, MD, Rowman and Littlefield, 2007; p. 171. ISBN 0-7425-5158-X
From the 2014 Dorothy Must Die novel by Danielle Paige, an adaptation that is a dark sequel to the original Oz series where Dorothy and her friends have been corrupted by her use of magic and the gifts they received from the Wizard, the Lion has become a giant, brutal warrior who walks on his hind legs, draining the fear from others to increase his own strength. In the second novel in the series in 2015, The Wicked Will Rise, protagonist Amy Gumm is able to take the Lion's courage by cutting off his tail, realizing that it has been sewn onto his hindquarters, but Amy spares the Lion despite being tempted to kill him. The Lion is subsequently bound and forced to fight for Dorothy despite his fear, forcing Amy to kill him despite her past actions.
^ M. P. McQueen (May 16, 2007). "Perishable Art: Investing In Works That May Not Last". The Wall Street Journal.
The Dreamer of Oz: The L. Frank Baum Story (1990)
In the 1925 silent film The Wizard of Oz, directed and starring Larry Semon, the Cowardly Lion was played in disguise by Spencer Bell.
Wall Street Journal "Old Pelt for Sale" November 14, 2014
The Cowardly Lion's mane was re-created from human hair imported from Italy at a cost of $22,000, and more than twenty-one artisans worked for two years completing the conservation.[12]
M. P. McQueen (May 16, 2007). "Perishable Art: Investing In Works That May Not Last". The Wall Street Journal.
A skittish and fearful lion cub is seen at Shiz University in Gregory Maguire's novel, Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West. The cub had been the result of cruel experiments by Dr. Dillamond's replacement teacher (in the musical, it was an agent of the Wizard) and was saved by Elphaba and some other students. This is heavily hinted to be a younger form of the Cowardly Lion. The Tin Woodman confirms this in the Broadway musical adaptation Wicked, in the song "March of the Witch Hunters": "And the lion also has a grievance to repay! If she'd let him fight his own battles when he was young, he wouldn't be a coward today!"
In 2015, The Cowardly Lion appears in Lego Dimensions, voiced by Jess Harnell.
The Cowardly Lion appears as an enemy in the 1997 video game, Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, along with the Scarecrow and the Tin Man.
Maguire's third book in The Wicked Years, A Lion Among Men, is told primarily from the Lion's viewpoint, and its plot is centered around Brrr's account of his own origins, or lack thereof (he is unsure, as his narration begins, of the whereabouts of his parents, pride, etc.).
In "The Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger" in Little Wizard Stories of Oz, the Lion begins with cowardly bravado, intending to find a man to tear apart, and the Tiger a fat baby to devour. Instead, they find a small child (bigger than a baby) and return it to its mother.
His favored companion is the Hungry Tiger. This may well be the "Biggest of the Tigers" he and his friends encounter in the Forest of Wild Beasts in the Quadling Country[3] In this forest, all of the lions and many of the other animals have been eaten by a Giant Spider. The Lion finds the Giant Spider asleep and decapitates it. The Tiger and the other animals bow to him and ask him to be their king, and he promises to do so upon his return from accompanying Dorothy to Glinda. Glinda orders the Winged Monkeys to carry him back to the Forest once Dorothy has returned home.
"Ann Curry interview with James Comisar on The Today Show"
In the rest of Baum's Oz series, the Lion never again played a major role. In later books, The Cowardly Lion often accompanies Dorothy on her adventures. He is Princess Ozma's chief guardian on state occasions, and he and the Hungry Tiger pull Ozma's chariot. In subsequent Oz books by Baum, the Lion was shown to have continued being courageous and loyal, although still considering himself a coward and regularly frightened, even by Aunt Em. He befriended the Hungry Tiger in Ozma of Oz, if this was not the earlier Tiger (which The Patchwork Girl of Oz implies that it is by calling both Lion and Tiger "largest of their kind"), and the two have become Ozma's personal guards. In Glinda of Oz he is on Ozma's board of advisers.
Comisar's Cowardly Lion costume has been featured in the national media, including on The Oprah Winfrey Show, when it was then valued at $1.5 million.[14] The costume is thought to be among the most valuable and iconic Hollywood objects in existence.[citation needed] “Most of us cannot relate to not having a brain or a heart; we can all relate to not having enough courage, and it is for this reason I believe the Cowardly Lion is the character we respond to the most,” said Comisar.[12] Many potential buyers have expressed interest in buying the costume, but so far he has rejected all offers. Comisar's costume was offered by Bonhams in their TCM-themed auction that took place in New York City on November 24, 2014,[15] where it received great interest and realized the selling price of $3.1 million,[16] and this is the highest known price point for a costume worn by a male performer in any Hollywood production.
In the 2017 TV series Emerald City, the Lion is a former guard in the Wizard's army who is cursed into the form of a beast for his actions against the former Royal Family of Oz.
In the movie, the Lion walks on his hind legs instead of all four, except when he is first seen bounding out of the forest to attack Dorothy's friends. After roaring fiercely at them on all fours, he does stand up on his hind legs.
The Cowardly Lion is a minor character in author Gregory Maguire's 1995 revisionist novel Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West and its 2003 Broadway musical adaptation. In both works, he is first seen as a Lion Cub (lion with human attributes) who has been torn from his mother and used as an experiment (in the book by Doctor Dillamond's replacement, Doctor Nikidik, and in the musical an agent of the Wizard) on the nature of Animals. Elphaba (the future Wicked Witch of the West) saves the Lion Cub that in the end of both adaptations attempts to kill her. He also appears in Maguire's 2005 sequel Son of a Witch, also in a minor role. The Cowardly Lion is the central character in the third book of the series, A Lion Among Men, where he is given the name of Brrr, which was the name given to him in Wicked. Doctor Nikidik mentions that he intended to give the Lion Cub the name of Prrr, but since "it shivers more than it purrs," he names it Brrr.
^ "Ann Curry interview with James Comisar on The Today Show". tvtour.org. Archived from the original on 2011-11-07. Retrieved 2011-06-29.
Nathan Lane performs as this character in the 1995 television stage performance The Wizard of Oz in Concert: Dreams Come True. The Kansas farmworker Zeke does not appear in this production. He sings the longer version of "If I Only Had the Nerve" including the bridge verses sung by the Scarecrow (Jackson Browne), Tin Man (Roger Daltrey), and Dorothy (Jewel). In his version of If I Were King of the Forest, he has an addition into the lyrics "Not queen, not duke, not prince...or the Artist Formerly known as Prince".
The Wizard of Oz in Concert: Dreams Come True (1995)
Chuck Haga (December 19, 2006). "King of Forest rules at auction; Somebody put up $826,000 to buy the Cowardly Lion costume from a Twin Cities artist". Star Tribune.
Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West
^ Sotheby's Entertainment & Memorabilia Auction Beverly Hills, CA – May 21, 1997
In the 1961 animated TV series, Tales of the Wizard of Oz and its sequel, the 1964 NBC animated television special Return to Oz, the Lion (here named Dandy Lion) was voiced by Paul Kligman.
^ "Whose Cat Suit Is It, Anyway?". People magazine. December 21, 1998. Retrieved June 29, 2011.
In the 1978 film version of the all black Broadway play, the Lion was portrayed by Ted Ross, who won a Tony for his Broadway portrayal. David Alan Grier portrayed the Lion in 2015's The Wiz Live!.
"The History Channel documentary on the Cowardly Lion costume". YouTube.
^ Wall Street Journal "Old Pelt for Sale" November 14, 2014
An original Cowardly Lion costume from The Wizard of Oz was packed away after filming and forgotten for decades.[8] It was found barely in time to be included in the landmark 1970 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer auction, where it sold for $2400 to a California chiropractor.[8] In 1985, sculptor Bill Mack acquired it;[8] he could not recall the exact price, but stated, "It was several thousand dollars, instead of several hundred thousand".[9] He had it restored by a taxidermist and "recreated the headpiece with a lifelike sculpture of Lahr".[8] In December 2006, he sold it for $826,000.[9]
The original Courage Medal prop from the 1939 film, a cross-shaped medal made of poly-chromed metal and measuring 7.5 × 7.5" (19.1 × 19.1 cm), features a lion in profile above a crown and a knight's helmet and the word "Courage" in raised blue scroll lettering. In the late 1950s, Mal Caplan, the head of the costume department at MGM was in a life-threatening automobile accident, and spent months in the hospital before returning to work. For some time he was unable to sit upright and had to work from a chaise longue. In recognition of his courage, his colleagues and the management at MGM presented him with the Cowardly Lion's Courage Medal. He was also given the Tin Man's "heart", but he gave that to "someone who needed it", a man in the same hospital who was having open heart surgery. The current whereabouts of the heart clock are unknown. The Courage Medal remained in the Caplan family until it was consigned to a Sotheby's Entertainment Memorabilia auction in May 1997.[5][6][7] The medal was purchased by a New Jersey collector, and in November 2010 was featured on episode 7 of the TV show Hollywood Treasure.
For the most part in later Oz books, though, the Cowardly Lion is a cameo appearance rather than a major character. His other significant appearances include Ojo in Oz, where he is turned into a clock by Mooj and saved by Ozma and the Wizard. He assisted against the Stratovanians in Ozoplaning with the Wizard of Oz, Terp the Terrible in The Hidden Valley of Oz, and accompanied Dorothy and Prince Gules of Halidom in Merry Go Round in Oz. John R. Neill played him primarily as a beast of burden in his three Oz books. In all, the only three books in which the Cowardly Lion does not rate at least a mention are The Tin Woodman of Oz, Grampa in Oz, and The Silver Princess in Oz. (In The Marvelous Land of Oz he receives a bare mention in the eleventh chapter.)
In his titular novel by Ruth Plumly Thompson, Mustafa of Mudge, a wealthy sultan at the southern tip of the Munchkin Country, kidnaps the Cowardly Lion for his large collection of lions that he feels would be incomplete without Oz's most famous lion. He was turned to stone by the giant Crunch, but rescued by American circus clown Notta Bit More and orphan Bobbie Downs, whom the clown prefers to call by the more optimistic-sounding Bob Up.
The film Oz the Great and Powerful shows Oscar Diggs driving away an attacking lion with a smoke bomb, suggesting that this lion is Dorothy's future companion.
In the 2007 Sci Fi television miniseries Tin Man, the Lion is re-imagined as a character named Raw, a member of the race of Viewers - half-man, half-lion beings with telekinetic and empathic abilities. He is played by Raoul Trujillo
The Cowardly Lion appears in the 2011 direct-to-DVD animated film Tom and Jerry and the Wizard of Oz, voiced by Todd Stashwick.
In the classic 1939 movie The Wizard of Oz, the Cowardly Lion was a humanoid biped and played by Bert Lahr, a popular vaudeville and Broadway star, with many of Lahr's trademark mannerisms deliberately worked into the film. In this version, the liquid courage given to him by the Wizard is replaced with a medal marked "Courage". Bert Lahr's biography, written by his son John Lahr, is entitled Notes on a Cowardly Lion.
"Whose Cat Suit Is It, Anyway?". People magazine. December 21, 1998. Retrieved June 29, 2011.
He appears in the 1990 The Wizard of Oz cartoon, voiced by Charlie Adler. The Cowardly Lion has his brave/cowardly persona intact, and even gets to wear the Ruby Slippers for a short while in one episode.
The Lion’s suit was very interesting. It was a real lion skin, and it weighed 60 lbs. My dad had to be in it all day, he couldn’t eat because of the way the mask was, so he had to eat his lunch through a straw.[13]
^ The Wizardry of Oz: The Artistry and the Magic of the M.G.M 1939 Classic, William Stillman and Jay Scarfone
Since lions are supposed to be "The Kings of Beasts," the Cowardly Lion believes that his fear makes him inadequate. He does not understand that courage means acting in the face of fear, which he does frequently. Only during the aftermath of the Wizard's gift, when he is under the influence of an unknown liquid substance that the Wizard orders him to drink is he not filled with fear. He argues that the courage from the Wizard is only temporary, although he continues to do brave deeds.
"TLC's Hunt for Amazing Treasure April 27, 2004 episode". tvtour.org. Archived from the original on March 26, 2012. Retrieved June 29, 2011.
Gerald Leinwand, William Jennings Bryan: An Uncertain Trumpet, Lanham, MD, Rowman and Littlefield, 2007; p. 171. ISBN 0-7425-5158-X
In 2017, The Cowardly Lion first appears in Lost In Oz, voiced by Keith Ferguson.
Strawberry Shortcake's 2003 cartoon has Berry Brick Road, where Strawberry Shortcake, taking Dorothy Gale's role, goes to Oz to get home. The Cowardly Lion returns as her third companion (fourth counting Pupcake), his design now changed to resemble Orange Blossom with braided hair and in a lion costume.
