The higher the level of barding, the better looking it will be.[3]
Hidebound Barding is a mount barding cosmetic appearance from Ashes of Creation Apocalypse.[1]
Barding skins can not be applied over a mount skin.[7]
Cosmetic skins may only be applied to barding/saddle items that are earned in-game.[6]Barding skins can not be applied over a mount skin.[7]The mount skins are applied to the mount, and barding (think of it like an accessory appearance) can not be applied over the mount skin.[7] – Cody PetersonBarding skins' appearance may differ depending on the type of mount.[5]
Barding skins' appearance may differ depending on the type of mount.[5]
Barding cosmetics can only be applied to mounts with barding cosmetic slots.[5]
Mount barding (also referred to as Saddles) is armor for mounts in Ashes of Creation. Mount barding is similar in concept to player armor.[3]
This page's content was last modified on 29 August 2022, at 14:36.
Barding will have multiple components that can be equipped. Each component will increase the stats of the mount, such as hit points and speed.[4][3]
The way Hidebound is made reflects exactly this experimental way. The film was first shot on DV where after editing, the frames were printed out. During fairs and festivals in Reykjavík, Iceland, members of the general public where offered to help in making of the film by tracing their own style the people from these print-outs. Over 1.350 people contributed with well over 16.000 traces and drawings that were scanned and used in the animation of the film. Backgrounds and other animation were created by a team of young artists in Reykjavík, led by the directors and creators of this project, Guðmundur Arnar and Þórgnýr Thoroddsen. Hidebound is their first animated film.
Find sources: "Hidebound" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
This article related to Icelandic film is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Hidebound" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Hidebound (Icelandic: Þröng Sýn) is a 2005 animated film that tells of Aron, a young man who is concerned about communications and the human situation in society. He decides to conduct an experiment and observes the reactions of other people to it. Through this unique experiment or observations we meet several characters that each tells us a different story about how people respond to a new experience and how they behave under pressure.
This page was last edited on 31 December 2022, at 21:23 (UTC).
This article related to a short animated film of the 2000s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
1850​ April 1​,Thomas Carlyle,“No. III. Downing Street.”, inLatter-Day Pamphlets, London: Chapman and Hall, […], OCLC 559083570, page 83:In fact, such unfortunate persons have no resource but to become what we call Pedants; to ensconce themselves in a safe world of habitudes, of applicable or inapplicable traditions; not coveting, rather avoiding the general daylight of common-sense, as very extraneous to them and their procedure; by long persistence in which course they become Completed Pedants, hidebound, impenetrable, able to defy the hostile extraneous element; an alarming kind of men
1644,Areopagitica; A speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicenc’d Printing, to the Parlament of England‎[2]:And how can a man teach with autority, which is the life of teaching, how can he be a Doctor in his book as he ought to be, or else had better be silent, whenas all he teaches, all he delivers, is but under the tuition, under the correction of his patriarchal licencer to blot or alter what precisely accords not with the hidebound humor which he calls his judgement.
1937,Siegfried Sassoon,Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man (in The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston), London: Faber and Faber, page 263 (1972 paper covered edition):
1932,Virginia Woolf,“The Niece of an Earl”, inThe Common ReaderFirst and Second Series Combined in One Volume, New York, N.Y.: Harcourt, Brace and Company, published 1948, OCLC 978156016:
Some of the horses were looking hidebound, and I promised the sergeant that I'd buy a couple of hundredweight of linseed for them when I went on leave. Linseed was a cosy idea; it reminded me of peacetime conditions.
1644,Areopagitica; A speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicenc’d Printing, to the Parlament of England‎[2]:
1992,Winifred Barr Rothenberg,From Market-places to a Market Economy: The Transformation of Rural Massachusetts, 1750-1850, page 58:Open the box in which his large hidebound book is kept. The faint smell of manure, over 150 years old, still rises from thick yellowing pages, and you begin to live his life.
hidebound in Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, G. & C. Merriam, 1913
Open the box in which his large hidebound book is kept. The faint smell of manure, over 150 years old, still rises from thick yellowing pages, and you begin to live his life.
1644-1646, Francis Quarles, Boanerges and Barnabashath my purse been hidebound to my hungry brother?
1850​ April 1​,Thomas Carlyle,“No. III. Downing Street.”, inLatter-Day Pamphlets, London: Chapman and Hall, […], OCLC 559083570, page 83:
1627,Francis Bacon, William Rawley, editor, Sylva Sylvarum; Or A Natural History‎[1], 9 edition, published 1670, Century V §440:
1932,Virginia Woolf,“The Niece of an Earl”, inThe Common ReaderFirst and Second Series Combined in One Volume, New York, N.Y.: Harcourt, Brace and Company, published 1948, OCLC 978156016:But things change; class distinctions were not always so hard and fast as they have now become. The Elizabethan age was far more elastic in this respect than our own; we, on the other hand, are far less hide-bound than the Victorians.
It hath been observed that hacking of trees in their bark, both downright, and across, so as you make them rather in slices than in continued hacks, doth great good to trees; and especially delivereth them from being hide-bound, and killeth their moss.
In fact, such unfortunate persons have no resource but to become what we call Pedants; to ensconce themselves in a safe world of habitudes, of applicable or inapplicable traditions; not coveting, rather avoiding the general daylight of common-sense, as very extraneous to them and their procedure; by long persistence in which course they become Completed Pedants, hidebound, impenetrable, able to defy the hostile extraneous element; an alarming kind of men
1992,T. O. Madden,We Were Always Free: A 200-Year Family History, published 2005 (reprint), page 61:But no matter where their place of residence, they were always accompanied by the hidebound chest that held the family papers.
1992,T. O. Madden,We Were Always Free: A 200-Year Family History, published 2005 (reprint), page 61:
Russian: замше́лый (ru) (zamšélyj), махровый (ru) (maxrovyj), фанатичный (ru) (fanatičnyj), косный (ru) (kosnyj)
Oh, I know he's a good fellow—you needn't frown—an excellent fellow, and I always mean to see more of him; but a hide-bound pedant for all that; an ignorant blatant pedant.
After earlier years when the family had been accused of being stuffy and hidebound, members now started behaving as though they were in a never-ending soap opera.
1627,Francis Bacon, William Rawley, editor, Sylva Sylvarum; Or A Natural History‎[1], 9 edition, published 1670, Century V §440:It hath been observed that hacking of trees in their bark, both downright, and across, so as you make them rather in slices than in continued hacks, doth great good to trees; and especially delivereth them from being hide-bound, and killeth their moss.
1886 January 5,Robert Louis Stevenson,Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, London: Longmans, Green, and Co., OCLC 762755901, page 31:Oh, I know he's a good fellow—you needn't frown—an excellent fellow, and I always mean to see more of him; but a hide-bound pedant for all that; an ignorant blatant pedant.
1966,Thomas Pynchon,chapter 5, inThe Crying of Lot 49, New York: Bantam Books, published 1976, →ISBN, page 91:That optimistic baby had come on so like the private eye in any long-ago radio drama, believing all you needed was grit, resourcefulness, exemption from hidebound cops' rules, to solve any great mystery.
(figurative, of a person) Stubborn; narrow-minded; inflexible.1644,Areopagitica; A speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicenc’d Printing, to the Parlament of England‎[2]:And how can a man teach with autority, which is the life of teaching, how can he be a Doctor in his book as he ought to be, or else had better be silent, whenas all he teaches, all he delivers, is but under the tuition, under the correction of his patriarchal licencer to blot or alter what precisely accords not with the hidebound humor which he calls his judgement.1850​ April 1​,Thomas Carlyle,“No. III. Downing Street.”, inLatter-Day Pamphlets, London: Chapman and Hall, […], OCLC 559083570, page 83:In fact, such unfortunate persons have no resource but to become what we call Pedants; to ensconce themselves in a safe world of habitudes, of applicable or inapplicable traditions; not coveting, rather avoiding the general daylight of common-sense, as very extraneous to them and their procedure; by long persistence in which course they become Completed Pedants, hidebound, impenetrable, able to defy the hostile extraneous element; an alarming kind of men1886 January 5,Robert Louis Stevenson,Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, London: Longmans, Green, and Co., OCLC 762755901, page 31:Oh, I know he's a good fellow—you needn't frown—an excellent fellow, and I always mean to see more of him; but a hide-bound pedant for all that; an ignorant blatant pedant.1932,Virginia Woolf,“The Niece of an Earl”, inThe Common ReaderFirst and Second Series Combined in One Volume, New York, N.Y.: Harcourt, Brace and Company, published 1948, OCLC 978156016:But things change; class distinctions were not always so hard and fast as they have now become. The Elizabethan age was far more elastic in this respect than our own; we, on the other hand, are far less hide-bound than the Victorians.1966,Thomas Pynchon,chapter 5, inThe Crying of Lot 49, New York: Bantam Books, published 1976, →ISBN, page 91:That optimistic baby had come on so like the private eye in any long-ago radio drama, believing all you needed was grit, resourcefulness, exemption from hidebound cops' rules, to solve any great mystery.September 8 2022,Stephen Bates,“Queen Elizabeth II obituary”, inThe Guardian‎[3]:After earlier years when the family had been accused of being stuffy and hidebound, members now started behaving as though they were in a never-ending soap opera.
(obsolete) Niggardly; penurious; stingy.1644-1646, Francis Quarles, Boanerges and Barnabashath my purse been hidebound to my hungry brother?
This page was last edited on 6 February 2023, at 19:48.
But things change; class distinctions were not always so hard and fast as they have now become. The Elizabethan age was far more elastic in this respect than our own; we, on the other hand, are far less hide-bound than the Victorians.
1937,Siegfried Sassoon,Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man (in The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston), London: Faber and Faber, page 263 (1972 paper covered edition):Some of the horses were looking hidebound, and I promised the sergeant that I'd buy a couple of hundredweight of linseed for them when I went on leave. Linseed was a cosy idea; it reminded me of peacetime conditions.
1992,Winifred Barr Rothenberg,From Market-places to a Market Economy: The Transformation of Rural Massachusetts, 1750-1850, page 58:
(of a domestic animal) Having the skin adhering so closely to the ribs and back as not to be easily loosened or raised; emaciated.1937,Siegfried Sassoon,Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man (in The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston), London: Faber and Faber, page 263 (1972 paper covered edition):Some of the horses were looking hidebound, and I promised the sergeant that I'd buy a couple of hundredweight of linseed for them when I went on leave. Linseed was a cosy idea; it reminded me of peacetime conditions.
Bound with the hide of an animal.1992,Winifred Barr Rothenberg,From Market-places to a Market Economy: The Transformation of Rural Massachusetts, 1750-1850, page 58:Open the box in which his large hidebound book is kept. The faint smell of manure, over 150 years old, still rises from thick yellowing pages, and you begin to live his life.1992,T. O. Madden,We Were Always Free: A 200-Year Family History, published 2005 (reprint), page 61:But no matter where their place of residence, they were always accompanied by the hidebound chest that held the family papers.
And how can a man teach with autority, which is the life of teaching, how can he be a Doctor in his book as he ought to be, or else had better be silent, whenas all he teaches, all he delivers, is but under the tuition, under the correction of his patriarchal licencer to blot or alter what precisely accords not with the hidebound humor which he calls his judgement.
1886 January 5,Robert Louis Stevenson,Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, London: Longmans, Green, and Co., OCLC 762755901, page 31:
September 8 2022,Stephen Bates,“Queen Elizabeth II obituary”, inThe Guardian‎[3]:After earlier years when the family had been accused of being stuffy and hidebound, members now started behaving as though they were in a never-ending soap opera.
1966,Thomas Pynchon,chapter 5, inThe Crying of Lot 49, New York: Bantam Books, published 1976, →ISBN, page 91:
But no matter where their place of residence, they were always accompanied by the hidebound chest that held the family papers.
That optimistic baby had come on so like the private eye in any long-ago radio drama, believing all you needed was grit, resourcefulness, exemption from hidebound cops' rules, to solve any great mystery.
(of trees) Having the bark so close and constricting that it impedes the growth.1627,Francis Bacon, William Rawley, editor, Sylva Sylvarum; Or A Natural History‎[1], 9 edition, published 1670, Century V §440:It hath been observed that hacking of trees in their bark, both downright, and across, so as you make them rather in slices than in continued hacks, doth great good to trees; and especially delivereth them from being hide-bound, and killeth their moss.
1 English1.1 Alternative forms1.2 Etymology1.3 Pronunciation1.4 Adjective1.4.1 Translations1.5 See also1.6 References
