2016,Tim Carvell; Josh Gondelman; Dan Gurewitch; Jeff Maurer; Ben Silva; Will Tracy; Jill Twiss; Seena Vali; Julie Weiner,“Special Districts”, inLast Week Tonight with John Oliver, season 3, episode 4, HBO, Warner Bros. Television:
Having scruples or compunctions.He is a scrupulous businessman and always acts in the best interest of his company.Synonym: worried
Exactly and carefully conducted.He is scrupulous in his finances.Synonyms: meticulous, painstaking; see also Thesaurus:meticulousAntonym: unscrupulous2016,Tim Carvell; Josh Gondelman; Dan Gurewitch; Jeff Maurer; Ben Silva; Will Tracy; Jill Twiss; Seena Vali; Julie Weiner,“Special Districts”, inLast Week Tonight with John Oliver, season 3, episode 4, HBO, Warner Bros. Television:Come on! You have got to admire their dedication to the rules! These two men are so scrupulous, they would sit at a broken red traffic light for six hours in the middle of the night. “Hey, red is red! We live in a civilized society! Red is red! We stay!”
Italian: (please verify) acribia (it) f, coscienzioso (it), accurato (it), meticoloso (it)
Russian: скрупулёзный (ru) (skrupuljóznyj), тщательный (ru) (tščatelʹnyj), доскональный (ru) (doskonalʹnyj)
This page was last edited on 3 February 2023, at 16:39.
2016,Tim Carvell; Josh Gondelman; Dan Gurewitch; Jeff Maurer; Ben Silva; Will Tracy; Jill Twiss; Seena Vali; Julie Weiner,“Special Districts”, inLast Week Tonight with John Oliver, season 3, episode 4, HBO, Warner Bros. Television:Come on! You have got to admire their dedication to the rules! These two men are so scrupulous, they would sit at a broken red traffic light for six hours in the middle of the night. “Hey, red is red! We live in a civilized society! Red is red! We stay!”
Come on! You have got to admire their dedication to the rules! These two men are so scrupulous, they would sit at a broken red traffic light for six hours in the middle of the night. “Hey, red is red! We live in a civilized society! Red is red! We stay!”
Swedish: noggrann (sv), omsorgsfull (sv), sorgfällig (sv), grundlig (sv), skrupulös (sv), försiktig (sv), betänksam (sv), nogräknad (sv)
Wrongly feeling guilt or anxiety about one’s morality; suffering from scrupulosity.Because I have a scrupulous conscience, I sometimes need to be reminded that not everything I do is sinful.Synonyms: ethical, fair-minded, honourable, just, moral, righteous

careful, strict, precise, minute, nice, exact, rigorous, meticulous, painstaking, fastidious, punctilious
