Hop on our Discord using the link above to sign up and help us test Crafty.
WarningVersion 3 is now DEPRECATED. We have removed the guides from our main page, though they are still on the wiki. Please do not reference v3 docs when troubleshooting your install.
ENnie Awards 2006 nominees page Archived July 20, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved June 26, 2009.
A professional content producer and creative manager in the hobby gaming industry since 1998, Patrick Kapera was the co-creator of the award-winning Spycraft role-playing game and its many offshoots, including the Stargate SG-1 RPG while working as a staff writer, editor, developer, and brand manager for AEG. Additionally he has worked on many acclaimed games, including Legend of the Five Rings, 7th Sea, Doomtown, When Darkness Comes, and the Battlestar Galactica RPG.
Crafty Games is an American publisher of tabletop games based on espionage and fantasy themes, particularly Mistborn and Spycraft. The company was founded by the creative team behind the Classic Spycraft and Spycraft 2.0 RPGs, shortly after both lines were shut down by then-publisher Alderac Entertainment Group.[1] Since its inception, Crafty Games has published over 50 products in print and PDF format. Crafty Games' work on Spycraft 2.0 has won nominations for the Diana Jones Award[2] and 4 ENnie Awards[3] in 2006.
^ "Interview: Crafty Games, Publisher of Spycraft 2.0, Fantasycraft and Mistborn Role-Playing Games Part 1". Retrieved July 17, 2009 and "Spycraft product listing on RPG Resource". Retrieved July 18, 2009
Once an organizer for the Oregon-based gaming convention Dairyland, Alex was recruited as an AEG freelancer to work on Classic Spycraft in 2002 based on the strength of his homebrewed setting Ten Thousand Bullets. Over the subsequent 5 years, he worked on nearly 2 dozen books for a number of publishers, including AEG, Privateer Press, Fantasy Flight Games, Paradigm Concepts, and Mythic Dreams Studios, and was a core designer of the critically acclaimed Spycraft 2.0.
^ ENnie Awards 2006 nominees page Archived July 20, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved June 26, 2009.
The founders of Crafty Games were affiliated with Alderac Entertainment Group in various capacities.When the Spycraft line was cut in the summer of 2005, they jointly formed Crafty Games.[4]
"Interview: Crafty Games, Publisher of Spycraft 2.0, Fantasycraft and Mistborn Role-Playing Games Part 1". Retrieved July 17, 2009 and "Spycraft product listing on RPG Resource". Retrieved July 18, 2009
"Interview: Crafty Games, Publisher of Spycraft 2.0, Fantasycraft and Mistborn Role-Playing Games Part 1"
Diana Jones Awards 2006 nominees page. Retrieved June 26, 2009.
This page was last edited on 12 July 2022, at 10:12 (UTC).
^ Diana Jones Awards 2006 nominees page. Retrieved June 26, 2009.
Beyond Spycraft, Crafty Games has recently begun to branch into other games, including Mastercraft, a new system developed as part of their Fantasy Craft RPG. On September 7, 2008, the company also announced its first licensed property, the Mistborn Adventure Game, based on Brandon Sanderson's Mistborn series of novels.[5]
Wiki Community																																														Contribute																																							Help contents																															Things to do																																																Rules and guidelines																																							Rules																															Video policy																															Style guide																																																Community noticeboard																																	Admin noticeboard																																	Projects
Being in a Graveyard is required for crafting various items (other crafting stations are also required, see Ecto Mist for details).
Item mechanics																																							Mining speed																															Pickaxe power																															Placement																															Rarity																															Tooltips																															Use time																															Value
Player mechanics																																							Aggro																															Damage reduction																															Death																															Defense																															Fall damage																															Health																															Health regeneration																															Mana																															Movement speed																															Spawn
These have limited crafting use and only craft a couple of arguably non-essential items.
Liquids also produce unique blocks when colliding with each other (+= Obsidian,+= Honey Block,+= Crispy Honey Block,/+= Aetherium Block.)
This list shows the general order a new player will likely need to follow in obtaining the basic crafting stations. This list only covers stations for essential tools and game advancement. Others can be obtained in more varying orders.
Furnace: crafted at the Work Bench, from Wood, Stone, and Torches.
Now shows all possible craftings when the player clicks on the "Crafting window" icon.
Unlike the player's item reach, crafting reach cannot be extended by items such as the Architect Gizmo Pack or Extendo Grip. It can however be extended permanently by consuming the Artisan Loaf.
Hellforge: found in The Underworld, generated with the world inside Ruined Houses.
Desktop 1.3.0.1: Added Alchemy Table and Ancient Manipulator.Items can now be crafted from a chest while it is open without having to place its contents in the player inventory beforehand.Now shows all possible craftings when the player clicks on the "Crafting window" icon.
A few items require standing near liquids to appear in the crafting menu. Standing next to any Sink type works if the required liquid is water.
These do not use the crafting menu but produce items in unique ways.
The following crafting stations are used to craft themed versions of various furniture items.
Items can now be crafted from a chest while it is open without having to place its contents in the player inventory beforehand.
Combat mechanics																																							Attack speed																															Autoswing																															Critical hit																															Damage																															Knockback																															Velocity
Crafting Snow Clouds requires the player to be in the Snow biome (a Sky Mill is also required).
A Crafting Station allows players to craft various items. Entering the inventory screen displays the "Crafting window" in the lower-left, and when the player is standing near one or more Crafting Stations and possesses the right crafting ingredients, the bar is expanded with additional item choices.
Nearly all crafting stations are furniture. There are currently 44 crafting stations in total.
Adamantite Forge/Titanium Forge: crafted at Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil from a Hellforge and Adamantite Ore/Titanium Ore.
Gameplay																																							Hardmode																															Classic Mode																															Expert Mode																															Master Mode																															Journey Mode																															Multiplayer
The player can reach any crafting station within ~3 blocks to their left or right, 3 blocks below them, or the 3 blocks of their character's height. This gives a total reach of ~8 by 6 blocks centered below the player. This is shorter than the player's reach for tools or chests of ~10 by 9 centered on the player.
Items																																							Weapons																															Tools																															Armor																															Accessories																															Potions																															Ores																															Furniture																															Blocks																															Background walls																															Vanity items
↑ The Solidifier also crafts Frozen and Pink Slime Blocks
Wooden Table, Wooden Chair: crafted at the Work Bench from Wood.
Guides																																							Getting started																															Walkthrough																															Class setups																															Crafting 101																															Game progression																															Maintaining world purity																															NPC happiness																															Farming resources																															Making money																															Bases
The crafting reach of the player isn't a whole number. If they press against a wall, they can reach a crafting station 4 blocks away, but they will never be able to reach 2 crafting stations 4 blocks away on either side. This can be easily tested by locking the player in a 2 wide space with crafting stations 4 blocks away on either side of them; they will only be able to reach 1 crafting station at any given time. Similarly, the player's item reach will extend to 5 blocks if pressed against a wall. Interestingly, the player has to be closer to the wall to extend item reach compared to crafting reach.
↑ The Sky Mill also crafts Rain Clouds and Snow Clouds
↑ The Glass Kiln also functions as a plain Furnace
Advanced																																														Gameplay mechanics																																							Biome spread																															Day and night cycle																															Game controls																															Luck																															Moon phase																															NPC spawning																															Settings																															World Seed																															World size																																																Player mechanics																																							Aggro																															Damage reduction																															Death																															Defense																															Fall damage																															Health																															Health regeneration																															Mana																															Movement speed																															Spawn																																																Combat mechanics																																							Attack speed																															Autoswing																															Critical hit																															Damage																															Knockback																															Velocity																																																Item mechanics																																							Mining speed																															Pickaxe power																															Placement																															Rarity																															Tooltips																															Use time																															Value																																																Mods																																							Resource Packs																															Workshop Hub																															tModLoader																															Inventory editors																															Map viewers																																																Data IDs
Iron Anvil/Lead Anvil: crafted at the Work Bench from Iron Bars/Lead Bars.
Sawmill: crafted at the Workbench, from an Iron Chain, Wood, and Iron Bars.
Mythril Anvil/Orichalcum Anvil: crafted at the Iron/Lead Anvil from Mythril Bars/Orichalcum Bars
Basics																																														Items																																							Weapons																															Tools																															Armor																															Accessories																															Potions																															Ores																															Furniture																															Blocks																															Background walls																															Vanity items																																																Characters																																							NPCs																															Enemies																															Bosses																															Critters																															Pets																															Minions																																																Biomes																																	Events																																	Gameplay																																							Hardmode																															Classic Mode																															Expert Mode																															Master Mode																															Journey Mode																															Multiplayer																																																Mechanics																																							Crafting																															Houses																															Buffs																															Bestiary																															Achievements																															Fishing																															Modifiers																																																Guides																																							Getting started																															Walkthrough																															Class setups																															Crafting 101																															Game progression																															Maintaining world purity																															NPC happiness																															Farming resources																															Making money																															Bases
The Sky Mill also crafts Rain Clouds and Snow Clouds
Mods																																							Resource Packs																															Workshop Hub																															tModLoader																															Inventory editors																															Map viewers
Gameplay mechanics																																							Biome spread																															Day and night cycle																															Game controls																															Luck																															Moon phase																															NPC spawning																															Settings																															World Seed																															World size
