Shorts																																							Object Connects Announcement (April Fools!!!)																															Battle For Cake_Kingdom 2 (-1/20 Sign Ups) (April Fools!!!))																															Happy Valentine's Day From Object Connects																															I'm have some news.																															Happy Easter From Object Connects
Quince is a very rich contestant. Despite living in the mansion with a total of 999,000,000 dollars in his pocket being given by his friend who died from a heart attack, Quince is known for being the most clever, peaceful, skillful, unfoolable gentleman. His goal is to make sure that his partner and everyone he alliances to was safe and whatever something wrong, he plays a judge to figure out a solution to all their problems. However, Quince couldn't careless about everyone thoughts, emotions, and past times as he finds it a bit uninteresting. He is also too busy with something, ignoring other contestants suggestions and thoughts. This will be difficult for him to work alongside with Cotton Candy who like him, seems to careless about everyone. Cotton Candy, unlike every valley girls stereotype, doesn't care that Quince is rich, all she wants for Qunice is to listen to her and ignore him will pay a price. Quince enjoys eating fruit salads despite being a fruit himself making him a cannibal, but he might get angry if his food tastes bad or looks wrong. And for challenge purposes, the good things for Quince is that he can solve puzzles and compete in the board game like challenges but he has to take order for Cotton Candy. However, even though Cotton Candy keeps controlling Quince, he can sometimes stand up and compete ignore her words in order to win the challenge his way but he doesn't mind to be punished by her.
In Attack Of The Reversal Tomatoes, Quince received a very minor changes in his body. He lost his gradients, making him a pure yellow orange color and his stem is now darker fixing the second stem outline.
Quince currently has had the most voice actors throughout the course of the series, at three.
Explore																																														Main Page																																	Discuss																																	All Pages																																	Community																																	Interactive Maps																																	Recent Blog Posts
A giant yellow-orange quince with a brown stem on top of his head.
Quince is also the first (and only) contestant to be eliminated in 2019.
He is also one of the four contestants to be based around foods.
Characters																																														Workers																																							Jack																															Drinking Bird																																																The Smelly Peaches																																							Candle																															Walky Talky																																																The Sleepy Strawberries																																							Crane Flower																															Vanilla																																																The Speedy Dragon Fruits																																							Thing																															Sundae																																																The Happy Berries																																							Circle																															Flashlight																																																The Noisy Gooseberries																																							Slimey																															Toothbrush
Even though Quince is not as heavy as Bocce Ball, he is the largest contestant in the game.
Episodes																																														Episode 1 - 7																																							What Camp: Part 1																															What Camp: Part 2																															Make A Shot																															Birthday Dash																															Attack Of The Reversal Tomatoes																															Keep An Eye																															Hide And Go Deep																																																Shorts																																							Object Connects Announcement (April Fools!!!)																															Battle For Cake_Kingdom 2 (-1/20 Sign Ups) (April Fools!!!))																															Happy Valentine's Day From Object Connects																															I'm have some news.																															Happy Easter From Object Connects
Both Quince and Sundae are the only upper class contestants in the game.
Quince is the first male contestant to be introduced in the first episode.
In What Camp: Part 1, it's revealed that Quince is the millionaire for packaging empty soda cans you found in the street by a homeless guy's ex-girlfriend's mother's father's homeless stepmother from the other side of a street. When Quince first met Sundae, he told her that she's littering on his feet, indicating that Quince doesn't like everyone who throws their trash on the floor, unless one of them touches him of course.
Quince is one of the two contestants to be based on fruits.He is also one of the four contestants to be based around foods.
Community																																														Recent blog posts																																	Concepts																																							Leaders																															Followers																															The Ticket Store																															Score Tokens
Quince is also the first armless contestant to be eliminated.
More Characters																																														The Firey Melons																																							Cassette Tape																															Journal																																																The Sneezy Oranges																																							Avocado																															Key Chain																																																The Punchy Mangos																																							Quince																															Cotton Candy																																																The Reversal Tomatoes																																							Lantern																															Yogurt Cup																																																The Smarty Blueberries																																							Stampy																															Bocce Ball																																																Other BucketStudio22's Characters																																	Cameo Appearance
Quince is the first contestant to be eliminated after the show moves to Animate.Quince is also the first armless contestant to be eliminated.Quince is also the first (and only) contestant to be eliminated in 2019.
In Keep An Eye, Quince has received a new body design. His color is now brighter than his last design, the bottom piece has been altered, and the stems on top is more detail. He's also gain a shine and a shade but both of which appear to have a different design since he's a fruit.
Episode 1 - 7																																							What Camp: Part 1																															What Camp: Part 2																															Make A Shot																															Birthday Dash																															Attack Of The Reversal Tomatoes																															Keep An Eye																															Hide And Go Deep
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License; additional terms may apply.See Wiktionary Terms of Use for details.
Enter two words to compare and contrast their definitions, origins, and synonyms to better understand how those words are related.
This page was last edited on 15 March 2019, at 08:39.
