Alternatively, you can visit the Main Page or read more information about this type of error.
We could not find the above page on our servers.
1963,King, Jr., Martin Luther,“Transformed Nonconformist”, inStrength to Love‎[2], New York: Pocket Books, published 1964, OCLC 768659813, page 13:Millions of citizens are deeply disturbed that the military-industrial complex too often shapes national policy, but they do not want to be considered unpatriotic. Countless loyal Americans honestly feel that a world body such as the United Nations should include even Red China, but they fear being called Communist sympathizers.
This page was last edited on 17 January 2023, at 01:34.
Not patriotic1858 November 1,“Lettres De Silvio Pellico”, inThe Atlantic‎[1]:What is a Christian's duty, when his country is bled and plundered and ground down to the dust under the iron heel of military despotism, when the political fabric of his native land is crumbling, and his countrymen are listless, selfish, sensual, unpatriotic, not unhappy so long as their bellies are filled and their backs covered?1963,King, Jr., Martin Luther,“Transformed Nonconformist”, inStrength to Love‎[2], New York: Pocket Books, published 1964, OCLC 768659813, page 13:Millions of citizens are deeply disturbed that the military-industrial complex too often shapes national policy, but they do not want to be considered unpatriotic. Countless loyal Americans honestly feel that a world body such as the United Nations should include even Red China, but they fear being called Communist sympathizers.2021 June 7,“Nigerian broadcasters ordered to stop using ‘unpatriotic’ Twitter”, inThe Guardian‎[3]:Nigeria’s media regulator has directed all TV and radio stations to delete their Twitter accounts and described its use as unpatriotic[.]
1858 November 1,“Lettres De Silvio Pellico”, inThe Atlantic‎[1]:What is a Christian's duty, when his country is bled and plundered and ground down to the dust under the iron heel of military despotism, when the political fabric of his native land is crumbling, and his countrymen are listless, selfish, sensual, unpatriotic, not unhappy so long as their bellies are filled and their backs covered?
What is a Christian's duty, when his country is bled and plundered and ground down to the dust under the iron heel of military despotism, when the political fabric of his native land is crumbling, and his countrymen are listless, selfish, sensual, unpatriotic, not unhappy so long as their bellies are filled and their backs covered?
2021 June 7,“Nigerian broadcasters ordered to stop using ‘unpatriotic’ Twitter”, inThe Guardian‎[3]:Nigeria’s media regulator has directed all TV and radio stations to delete their Twitter accounts and described its use as unpatriotic[.]
Nigeria’s media regulator has directed all TV and radio stations to delete their Twitter accounts and described its use as unpatriotic[.]
1963,King, Jr., Martin Luther,“Transformed Nonconformist”, inStrength to Love‎[2], New York: Pocket Books, published 1964, OCLC 768659813, page 13:
Millions of citizens are deeply disturbed that the military-industrial complex too often shapes national policy, but they do not want to be considered unpatriotic. Countless loyal Americans honestly feel that a world body such as the United Nations should include even Red China, but they fear being called Communist sympathizers.
2021 June 7,“Nigerian broadcasters ordered to stop using ‘unpatriotic’ Twitter”, inThe Guardian‎[3]:
Mongolian:Cyrillic: эх оронч (ex oronč), эх орны (ex orny), эх орончийн (ex orončiin)
This page was last edited on 25 February 2023, at 10:16.
Inspired by or showing patriotism; done out of love of one's country; zealously and unselfishly devoted to the service of one's countrya patriotic statesmana patriotic song1885 — Gilbert & Sullivan, The MikadoBut if patriotic sentiment is wanted,I've patriotic ballads cut and dried;For where'er our country's banner may be planted,All other local banners are defied!
patriotic m or n (feminine singular patriotică, masculine plural patriotici, feminine and neuter plural patriotice)
From French patriotique, from Late Latin patriōticus, from Ancient Greek πατριωτικός (patriōtikós), from πατριώτης (patriṓtēs).
1885 — Gilbert & Sullivan, The MikadoBut if patriotic sentiment is wanted,I've patriotic ballads cut and dried;For where'er our country's banner may be planted,All other local banners are defied!
1 English1.1 Alternative forms1.2 Etymology1.3 Pronunciation1.4 Adjective1.4.1 Antonyms1.4.2 Derived terms1.4.3 Related terms1.4.4 Translations1.5 Anagrams
