The Dutiful Dub is a 1919 American short comedy film featuring Harold Lloyd.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "The Dutiful Dub" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
This page was last edited on 24 September 2022, at 23:30 (UTC).
This 1910s short comedy film–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Find sources: "The Dutiful Dub" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ "High Gothic in the Outback" by Angela Carter, The New York Times, 12 September 1971
The novel tells the bizarre story of the Glover family, living on the edges of a swamp somewhere in northern Australia. Daughter Barbara is the main character, although the story is told through the eyes of her elder brother Damian, recently returned from university. Barbara is the caregiver for their parents, who have evolved into bovine, centaur-like creatures. Much of the novel is written, unusually, in the second-person narrative.[2]
Angela Carter, reviewing the book for The New York Times, found it "authentically marvelous", noting "This spirited expressionist performance has stylistic affinities with American high Gothic (e.g., Djuna Barnes and Jane Bowles) and thematic ones with James Purdy's parent-child fable, "Malcolm," though Mr. Keneally's tale lacks the stark outlines that characterize the fable as a mode. He offers an embarrassment of symbolic riches, and his prevailing Firbankian archness sometimes effects a tinkling queasiness of tone. One doesn't know whether one is cued in for a belly laugh, a nervous giggle or a shudder of horror."[4]
^ Birch, Dinah; Hooper, Katy (2013). The Concise Oxford Companion to English Literature. OUP Oxford. p. 382. ISBN 9780191036743.
Birch, Dinah; Hooper, Katy (2013). The Concise Oxford Companion to English Literature. OUP Oxford. p. 382. ISBN 9780191036743.
"High Gothic in the Outback" by Angela Carter, The New York Times, 12 September 1971
This page was last edited on 8 December 2021, at 01:14 (UTC).
"The barnyard in Mr. Keneally's pagan place" by Hope Hewitt, The Canberra Times, 29 May 1971, p11
Hope Hewitt in The Canberra Times was conflicted by the book, finding that this "is a novel about escape, the great theme of Irish novelists; and it demonstrates as clearly as the novels of Edna O'Brien or James Joyce or Samuel Beckett that Ireland holds her rebellious children as tightly and as ambiguously as Barbara is held by her parents. Yet this is not primarily what A Dutiful Daughter is about: it is what occurs to me as I grope for yardsticks by which to define Mr Keneally's powerful and inconclusive fable. Both adjectives are just, I think. It is powerful like everything in Mr Keneally's vivid and individual idiom; and it is inconclusive, the myth advancing by a contrived, not an inevitable volition and the secondary meaning left unconnected."[3]
^ "The barnyard in Mr. Keneally's pagan place" by Hope Hewitt, The Canberra Times, 29 May 1971, p11
A Dutiful Daughter (1971) is a novel by Australian writer Thomas Keneally.[1]
Accepting of one's legal or moral obligations and willing to do them well, and without complaint.Ralph was a dutiful child, and took the trash out without being told.
This page was last edited on 17 January 2023, at 02:24.
Pertaining to one's duty; demonstrative of one's sense of duty.
