During the 16th century, emblem books began using an illustration of an ass eating thistles as symbol of miserly behaviour, often with an accompanying poem. They appeared in various European languages, among them the illustrated trencher by Marcus Gheeraerts the Younger, dating from about 1630, on which an ass laden with rich foods is shown cropping a thistle, surrounding which is the quatrain:
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"miser - definition of miser in English from the Oxford dictionary". oxforddictionaries.com. Archived from the original on August 11, 2012.
^ Satires, Epistles and Ars Poetica, Loeb edition translated by H. Rushton Fairclough, London 1942 p.5 ff
Topham, Edward (1790). "The Life of the Late John Elwes". google.co.uk.
"Lochy Ostrom, the maiden miser of Poughkeepsie; or, The love of a long lifetime. An authentic biography of Rachel Ostrom who recently died in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., aged ninety years, apparently very poor, but really wealthy ."
Misers are frequent figures of fun in the epigrams of the Greek Anthology.[46] It is charged of them that they are not masters of their own money if they do not spend it. Niarchus tells of one who does not commit suicide because of the cost of the rope to do so; Lucillius tells of another who dies because funeral expenses are cheaper than calling in a doctor. Elsewhere in the anthology is another epigram by Lucillius of a miser's encounter with a mouse that assures him he only wants lodging, not board.[47] In one more, a miser dreams that he is in debt and hangs himself.[48]
^ "Lochy Ostrom, the maiden miser of Poughkeepsie; or, The love of a long lifetime. An authentic biography of Rachel Ostrom who recently died in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., aged ninety years, apparently very poor, but really wealthy ." archive.org. 1870.
^ China Daily, 13 Feb 2009, "Daughter sued by dad over 'miser' poem"
Two more of the misers mentioned made their way into other literary works. John Hopkins, known as Vulture Hopkins, was the subject of a scornful couplet in the third of Alexander Pope's Moral Essays, "Of the Use of Riches":
"Ante-Nicene Fathers, Vol II: THE PASTOR OF HERMAS: Similitude Second. As the Vine is Supported by the Elm, So is the Rich Man Helped by the Prayer of the Poor". sacred-texts.com.
"Art UK - Henry Urwick (1859–1931), as Shylock". Art UK.
^ Clifford Sawhney, 50 Wittiest Tales Of Birbal, Bangalore 2005, "A question of 'like'", pp. 47–9
Tony Henderson (6 June 2011). "Margery Jackson's remarkable life inspires Miser! The Musical". journallive.[permanent dead link]
"File:Phlyax scene on a calyx krater by Asteas Antikensammlung Berlin F3044 5.jpg". wikimedia.org.
"Art UK - Arthur Bourchier (1863–1927), as Shylock". Art UK.
"Ante-Nicene Fathers, Vol II: THE PASTOR OF HERMAS: Similitude Second. As the Vine is Supported by the Elm, So is the Rich Man Helped by the Prayer of the Poor"
Another set of plays borrows a title from the Italian dramatist Carlo Goldoni, who was working in France at the end of his life. He had already produced a one-act comedy titled L'avaro (The Miser) in Bologna in 1756. In 1776 he produced in France the five-act L' avare fastueux (The Spendthrift Miser).[85] The same title was used by L. Reynier for his five-act verse drama of 1794[86] and by Claude Baron Godart d'Aucourt de Saint Just (1769-1826) for his three-act verse drama of 1805.[87]
^ The Complete Fables of Jean de La Fontaine, translated by Norman Shapiro, University of Illinois 2007, p.101
The miserly priest who was Lazarillo de Tormes' second master in the Spanish picaresque novel published in 1554.[111]
Misers as a type have been a perennial object of popular fascination and a fruitful source for writers and artists in many cultures.
In Dante Alighieri's Inferno, misers are put in the fourth circle of hell, in company with spendthrifts as part of their mutual punishment. They roll weights representing their wealth, constantly colliding and quarreling.[51]
James G. Hepburn, A Book of Scattered Leaves: Poetry of Poverty in Broadside Ballads Bucknell University 2000 p.201
The Complete Fables of Jean de La Fontaine, translated by Norman Shapiro, University of Illinois 2007, p.101
^ "British Museum - Mr Vale as Goliah Spiderlimb". British Museum.
^ "File:Jan Provoost - Death and the Miser - WGA18447.jpg". wikimedia.org.
Henry Earlforward in Arnold Bennett's novel Riceyman Steps (1923), who makes life miserable for the wife who married him in the hope of security.[125]
Translated into blank verse in the 18th century by Bonnell Thornton, available on Google Books
"Luke 12:20 "But God said to him, 'You fool! This very night your life will be demanded from you. Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?'". bible.cc.
"Hans Holbein's dance of death, Rich man / Miser". dodedans.com.
In the following chapter, Mr Boffin brings a coachload of the books to his premises and readers are introduced to a selection of typical titles and to the names of several of the misers treated in them. Among the books appear James Caulfield's Portraits, Memoirs, and Characters of Remarkable Persons (1794-5);[9] Kirby's Wonderful Museum of Remarkable Characters (1803);[10]Henry Wilson's Wonderful Characters (1821);[11] and F. Somner Merryweather's Lives and Anecdotes of Misers or The Passion of Avarice displayed in the parsimonious habits, unaccountable lives and remarkable deaths of the most notorious misers of all ages (1850).[12]
Francisco Torquemada, the main character in Perez Galdós' Torquemada en la hoguera (Toquemada on the pire, 1889). The novel is centred on a Madrid moneylender who had appeared incidentally in earlier novels of his and now had three more devoted to him: Torquemada en la cruz (Toquemada on the cross, 1893), Torquemada en el purgatorio (Toquemada in Purgatory, 1894) and Torquemada y San Pedro (Torquemada and Saint Peter, 1895). All of these deal with Spanish social trends in the closing years of the 19th century.[122]
^ Jennifer Doane Upton (March 2005), Dark Way to Paradise, ISBN 9781597310093
^ "Anecdotes of the late Daniel Dancer Esq", 1794, pp.399-40
Poetic titles from the 19th century include the Irish Arthur Geoghegan's The Old Miser and Mammon: an Incident Poem (Newry 1818) and Frederick Featherstone's New Christmas Poem entitled The Miser's Christmas Eve (1893). There was also an anonymous didactic poem titled The Miser (London 1831). Although miserly behaviour is referenced during the course of its 78 pages, the real focus there is the attraction of money in all its manifestations.[57]
^ Sean McGrath, South Italian Phylax Plays, University of Arizona
^ "Art UK - Henry Urwick (1859–1931), as Shylock". Art UK.
^ "The Athenaeum - Allegory of avarice (Paulus Moreelse - )". www.the-athenaeum.org.
The Songs and Ballads of Cumberland, George Routledge & Sons, 1866, pp. 330–3
P.J.De Voogd, Henry Fielding and William Hogarth, Amsterdam NL 1981, pp.38-9
Jean-Esther van Gobseck – an affluent usurer in the novel Gobseck (1830) by Balzac.[113]
^ "Jean de La Fontaine's Fable Poem: The Treasure And The Two Men". readbookonline.net. Archived from the original on 2012-04-15.
"The Perez Galdos Editions Project - Summary of the Torquemada novels". shef.ac.uk.
Such paintings cluster into recognisable genres, all of which point to the sinful nature of preoccupation with money for its own sake. Hieronymus Bosch's panel of Death and the Miser, dating from the 1490s, started a fashion in depicting this subject among Low Countries artists. Bosch shows the miser on his deathbed, with various demons crowding about his possessions, while an angel supports him and directs his attention to higher things. The link between finance and the diabolical is also drawn by another Fleming, Jan Matsys, in his portrayal of the man of affairs being assisted in his double bookkeeping by a demon.[134] The same connection is made in "The devil and the usurer" in the Valenciennes Musée des beaux-arts, formerly attributed to Pieter Bruegel the Younger, in which two devils pluck at the sleeve of a poorly dressed moneylender.[135]
"British Museum - Image gallery: The Scramble, or Old Gripus plunder'd by his Young Wife"
There were two famous references to misers in ancient Greek sources. One was Aesop's fable of "The Miser and his Gold" which he had buried and came back to view every day. When his treasure was eventually stolen and he was lamenting his loss, he was consoled by a neighbour that he might as well bury a stone (or return to look at the hole) and it would serve the same purpose.[31] The other was a two-line epigram in the Greek Anthology, once ascribed to Plato. In this a man, intending to hang himself, discovered hidden gold and left the rope behind him; on returning, the man who had hidden the gold hanged himself with the noose he found in its place.[32] Both these stories were alluded to or retold in the following centuries, the most famous versions appearing in La Fontaine's Fables as L'avare qui a perdu son trésor (IV.20)[33] and Le trésor et les deux hommes (IX.15)[34] respectively. Yet another of La Fontaine's fables was the late addition, ""The miser and the monkey" (XII.3),[35] used as a cautionary tale for financiers. Here a man keeps his hoard in a sea-encircled tower until a pet monkey amuses itself one day in throwing the coins out of the window.
^ "Luke 12:20 "But God said to him, 'You fool! This very night your life will be demanded from you. Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?'". bible.cc.
^ Topham, Edward (1790). "The Life of the Late John Elwes". google.co.uk.
"Lochy Ostrom, the maiden miser of Poughkeepsie; or, The love of a long lifetime. An authentic biography of Rachel Ostrom who recently died in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., aged ninety years, apparently very poor, but really wealthy ." archive.org. 1870.
Later in the 19th century there were small regional publications dealing with single individuals of local interest. Examples of such works include Frances Blair's 32-page Memoir of Margery Jackson, the Carlisle miser and misanthrope (Carlisle 1847)[24] and in the United States the 46-page Lochy Ostrom, the maiden miser of Poughkeepsie; or the love of a long lifetime. An authentic biography of Rachel Ostrom who recently died in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., aged ninety years, apparently very poor, but really wealthy (Philadelphia 1870).[25]
Another common subject of these ballads was the dilemma of the miser's daughter unable to marry the man of her choice and the stratagems employed to overcome her father. In "Bite Upon the Miser", printed in the late 18th century, a sailor dresses up as the devil and scares the miser and the parson he intended as her husband into allowing the match.[61] Much the same situation occurs in "The Politic Lovers or the Windsor Miser Outwitted", where it is a butcher who impersonates the devil and scares the miser into handing over his riches.[62] In about 1800 there appeared an English broadside ballad called “The old miser” which was to serve as basis for what grew into a folk song with multiple versions.[63] The scene is set in London, where a miser's daughter is courted by a sailor and the father arranges for him to be press-ganged to get him out of the way. As well as persisting in England, there are also versions in the US and Tristan de Cunha.[64] Misers were notorious tricksters, so ingenuity transcending barely credible impersonations was generally needed. "Bite upon bite or the miser outwitted by the country lass" (1736–63) does not feature the miser's daughter but another sort of damsel in distress. A girl bears a child out of wedlock and is advised by her mother to name it Maidenhead and offer it for sale. A rich miser closes the bargain and is eventually forced to support the child by the magistrate.[65]
"File:Phlyax scene on a calyx krater by Asteas Antikensammlung Berlin F3044 5.jpg"
^ "British Museum - Image gallery: Mr W. Farren, as Lovegold". British Museum.
Mike Hannon. "The Miser". eroti-cart.com. Archived from the original on 2014-08-26. Retrieved 2014-08-22.
^ Scribe, Eugène; Delavigne, Germain (1823). "L'avare en goguettes". google.co.uk.
^ C. T. Hsia, The Classic Chinese Novel: A Critical Introduction, Chinese University Press, 2016
Nicky Hayes (2000), Foundations of psychology, Cengage Learning, ISBN 1861525893
"Jean de La Fontaine's Fable Poem: The Treasure And The Two Men"
Edward Copping, Alfieri and Goldoni: Their Lives and Adventures, London 1857, p.259
^ Nicky Hayes (2000), Foundations of psychology, Cengage Learning, ISBN 1861525893
A group of eight in Book XI are numbered 165-73
^ James G. Hepburn, A Book of Scattered Leaves: Poetry of Poverty in Broadside Ballads Bucknell University 2000 p.201
When there was renewed European interest in Aesop during the early Renaissance, the Neo-Latin poet Laurentius Abstemius wrote two collections of original fables, among which appeared Avarus et poma marcescentia (The miser and the rotten apples, fable 179), published in 1499. This was eventually translated into English by Roger L'Estrange and published in his fable collection of 1692.[39] It concerns a miser who cannot bring himself to eat the apples in his orchard until they start to go rotten. His son invites in his playmates to pick the fruit but asks them not to eat the rotten ones since his father prefers those. The 18th century French fabulist Claris de Florian was to adapt the story in his "L'avare et son fils" (The miser and his son, IV.9). In this version the miserly father hoards his apples and only eats those going rotten. His son, upon being caught raiding them, excuses himself on the grounds that he was confining himself to eating just the sound ones.[40]
Yan Jiansheng in an episode of The Scholars by Wu Jingzi (吳敬梓), written about 1750. This miser was unable to die easily until a wasteful second wick was removed from the lamp at his bedside.[112]
In the Christian West the attitude to those whose interest centred on gathering money has been coloured by the teachings of the Church. From its point of view, both the miser and the usurer were guilty of the cardinal sin of avarice and shared behaviours.[4] According to the parable of the Elm and the Vine in the quasi-Biblical Shepherd of Hermas, the rich and the poor should be in a relationship of mutual support. Those with wealth are in need of the prayers of the poor for their salvation and can only earn them by acts of charity.[5] A typical late example of Christian doctrine on the subject is the Reverend Erskine Neale's The Riches that Bring No Sorrow (1852), a moralising work based on a succession of biographies contrasting philanthropists and misers.[6]
^ "Web Gallery of Art, image collection, virtual museum, searchable database of European fine arts (1000-1900)". wga.hu.
^ "British Museum - Image gallery: The Scramble, or Old Gripus plunder'd by his Young Wife". British Museum.
Dame Margery is not named in the poem because at the time of writing (1805) she was still alive and known to be litigious. We know that it is meant to be her from the fact that in William Brown's painting of the ballad, "Hiring Croglin Watty at Carlisle Cross", it is she who figures in the foreground.[68] About 1811, just before her death, Brown had already devoted another painting to her alone as she tramped through the town.[69] That she is still amusedly remembered there is witnessed by the modern Miser! The Musical (2011), based on her life.[70]
"Riceyman Steps – Arnold Bennett". Several eBooks Free. Archived from the original on 2020-08-04. Retrieved 2014-08-20.
"The Soul of Nicholas Snyders, Or the Miser Of Zandam, by Jerome K. Jerome". gutenberg.org.
^ "The Soul of Nicholas Snyders, Or the Miser Of Zandam, by Jerome K. Jerome". gutenberg.org.
^ An account of him was given in The Gentleman's Magazine for 1788, pp.510-11
Anindya Roy, Akbar-Birbal Jokes, New Delhi 2005 "The Miser's Misery", pp. 125–6
Albert S. Borgman, Thomas Shadwell, his life and comedies, New York 1969, pp.141-7
"The Athenaeum - Allegory of avarice (Paulus Moreelse - )"
In the third book of The Faerie Queene, Edmund Spenser created a portrait of a man trapped between conflicting desires in Malbecco, who appears in cantos 9-10. He is torn between his miserliness and love for his wife Hellenore. Wishing to escape with a lover, she sets fire to his storeroom and forces him to choose between them:
Lantz, K. A. (2004). The Dostoevsky encyclopedia. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 118. ISBN 0-313-30384-3.
Another public source of information about misers, in Scotland at least, was the prose broadside. One example concerns Isobel Frazer or Frizzle, who died in Stirling on 26 May 1820.[22] Much of the broadside is taken up with detailing the contents of her three rooms, into which she had let no one enter. Not more than £8 in currency was discovered there, but she had bought and hoarded many articles of dress over the years, although rarely wearing them. She had also carefully picked up every pin that fell in her way, till she nearly filled one hundred pincushions. In addition to much other bric-a-brac, there were a great number of buttons, which had been cut off old coats. This makes her sound more like a compulsive hoarder than the "Female Miser" that she is called in the report. The title was more deserved by Joseph MacWilliam, who was found dead of a fire on 13 June 1826. A servant whose home was a damp Edinburgh cellar without either bed, chair or table, his colleagues and neighbours claimed to have seen him in the same threadbare clothes for 15 years. After his death, property to the value of more than £3,000 was found in the cellar, some in the form of property deeds, and more in bank receipts.[23]
Still another ballad theme was the privations of the miser's servant, a comic situation in drama and fiction also, and here principally concerned with how little food the household has to live on. One example is "The Miser's Man (dating from between 1863-85).[66] At the start of the 19th century, the theme had figured as an episode in Robert Anderson's "Croglin Watty". A simple-minded countryman down from the fells, Watty was hired by the real-life Carlisle miser Margery Jackson (1722–1812) and served her for a quarter. The ballad mixes sung verses with prose description, both in Cumberland dialect:
^ Bennett, Mary E. (1841). "The Gipsey Bride: Or, the Miser's Daughter. By the Author of Jane Shore ..." google.co.uk.
"Memoir of Margery Jackson, the Carlisle miser & misanthrope". archive.org. 1848.
^ "Biographical Curiosities; or, Various pictures of human nature. Containing ..." google.co.uk. 1797.
^ A group of eight in Book XI are numbered 165-73
Running parallel has been a disposition, inherited from Classical times, to class miserly behaviour as a type of eccentricity. Accounts of misers were included in such 19th century works as G. H. Wilson's four-volume compendium of short biographies, The Eccentric Mirror (1807).[7] Such books were put to comic use by Charles Dickens in Our Mutual Friend (serialised 1864/5), with its cutting analysis of Victorian capitalism. In the third section of that novel, Mr Boffin decides to cure his ward Bella Wilfer of her obsession with wealth and position by appearing to become a miser. Taking her with him on a round of the bookshops,
Satires, Epistles and Ars Poetica, Loeb edition translated by H. Rushton Fairclough, London 1942 p.5 ff
^ "The Perez Galdos Editions Project - Summary of the Torquemada novels". shef.ac.uk.
2Misers in literature											Toggle Misers in literature subsection																					2.1Fables																											2.2Poetry																											2.3Broadside ballads																											2.4Drama																											2.5Fiction
When Hopkins dies, a thousand lights attend	The wretch who living saved a candle's end.[20]
"The Perez Galdos Editions Project - Summary of the Torquemada novels"
^ "Art UK - Arthur Bourchier (1863–1927), as Shylock". Art UK.
While these are more or less original interpretations of the theme, French fabulist Antoine Houdar de la Motte harks back to the light-hearted approach of the Greek Anthology in "The Miser and Minos", first published in his fables of 1719.[43] Descending to the Classical underworld at his death, the miser is brought before the judge of the dead and is given the extreme punishment of returning to earth to witness how his wealth is now being spent. The Scottish poet Allan Ramsay adapted this into dialect two years later,[44] and Charles Denis provided a version in standard English in his Select Fables (1754), reversing the title to "Minos and the Miser".[45]
"The Actor Grandmesnil, picture art prints and posters by Jean Baptiste Francois Desoria - ARTFLAKES.COM". artflakes.com. Archived from the original on 2013-06-08. Retrieved 2013-03-19.
"The miser married : a novel. In three volumes : Hutton, Catherine, 1756-1846 : Free Download & Streaming : Internet Archive"
^ Tony Henderson (6 June 2011). "Margery Jackson's remarkable life inspires Miser! The Musical". journallive.[permanent dead link]
^ Albert S. Borgman, Thomas Shadwell, his life and comedies, New York 1969, pp.141-7
"Luke 12:20 "But God said to him, 'You fool! This very night your life will be demanded from you. Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?'"
"Web Gallery of Art, image collection, virtual museum, searchable database of European fine arts (1000-1900)"
"British Museum - Image gallery: Scenes from Aesop's Fables". British Museum.
The Latin writer Horace put miserly behaviour at the centre of the first poem in his first collection of satires, dealing with extremes of behaviour.[49] In writing an imitation of it, an English poet who provides only his surname, Minshull, was to emphasise this by titling his work The Miser, a Poem (London, 1735).[50]
^ P.J.De Voogd, Henry Fielding and William Hogarth, Amsterdam NL 1981, pp.38-9
Ebenezer Balfour the villain of Robert Louis Stevenson's Kidnapped (1886), which is set during the Jacobite disturbances in 18th century Scotland. Attempting to deprive his nephew David (the hero of the novel) of his inheritance, he arranges to have the young man kidnapped.[121]
^ "Art UK - William Farren as Lovegold in 'The Miser' by Henry Fielding". Art UK.
The early 19th century saw misers become the subject of the musicals then fashionable in France. Eugène Scribe and Germain Delavigne collaborated onL'avare en goguette (The miser's spree) in 1823,[88] while Jean-François Bayard and Paul Duport collaborated on the two-act La fille de l'avare (The Miser's Daughter) in 1835.[87] The latter play was freely adapted in 1835 by John G. Millingen under the title of The Miser’s Daughter. Two further adaptations of the French play were to follow later: Love and Avarice (1859) by J. V. Bridgeman (1819-89), and John Palgrave Simpson's Daddy Hardacre in 1857. Meanwhile, William Harrison Ainsworth's period novelThe Miser's Daughter (first serialised in 1842) was spawning a fresh crop of dramas of that title. Two were played in 1842 and a further adaptation called Hilda in 1872. A similarly titled play was the five-act comedy partially in verse, The Miser's Daughter or The Lover's Curse of 1839, a schoolboy indiscretion of the future controversial churchman, Rev.John Purchas.[89] And on the other side of the Atlantic there was a stage production of Julietta Gordini:The Miser's Daughter, a verse play in five acts, which claimed to derive its plot 'from an Italian story'.[90]
Mr Boffin would say, 'Now, look well all round, my dear, for a Life of a Miser, or any book of that sort; any Lives of odd characters who may have been Misers.'.... The moment she pointed out any book as being entitled Lives of eccentric personages, Anecdotes of strange characters, Records of remarkable individuals, or anything to that purpose, Mr Boffin's countenance would light up, and he would instantly dart in and buy it.'[8]
"British Museum - Image gallery: Mr W. Farren, as Lovegold". British Museum.
By the end of the 19th century the theme of the miser was distancing itself from the simple moralities of journeyman painters and becoming a subject for aristocratic amateurs. The Empress Maria Feodorovna's miser of 1890 handles a small strongbox.[165] The Indian Raja Ravi Varma paints a Jewish character type for his miser, dated 1901,[166] while the Hungarian nobleman Ladislav Medňanský titles his humanised study "Shylock" (1900).[167] Apart from them, there is an etching by James Abbott McNeill Whistler which emphasises the essential isolation of such figures. His enigmatic "The Miser" of 1860 pictures an individual of indeterminate gender seated with its back to the viewer in the corner of a bare room next to the window. He is looking down as if examining something and the room behind him is spartanly furnished with just a table and bench, while a broadsheet is tacked to the wall.[168]
Bayard, Jean François Alfred; Duport, Paul (1835). "La fille de l'avare". google.co.uk.
The popularity of these theatrical misers is evident from the number of paintings and drawings based on them, many of which were then adapted as prints. In 18th-century England, it was Fielding's "The Miser" that attracted most attention. Samuel Wale's drawing of the second act was also made into a print.[95] But it was principally depictions of various actors in the character of Lovegold, the play's anti-hero, which attracted artists.Samuel De Wilde pictured William Farren in the role at the Theatre Royal, Bath.[96] Several other works became plates in one or another book dedicated to English drama. James Roberts II(1753 – c. 1810) executed a pen and ink watercolour of Edward Shuter in character which was adapted as a print for the six-volume play collection, Bell's British Theatre.[97] Charles Reuben Ryley made a print of Thomas Ryder in the role for Lowndes' British Theatre (1788),[98] whileThomas Parkinson's painting of Richard Yates as Lovegold was adapted for the 1776 edition of that work.[99] In the following century, Thomas Charles Wageman's dramatic head and shoulders drawing of William Farren as Lovegold illustrated William Oxberry's collection of texts, The New English Drama (1820).[100] From this time too dates the coloured print of Samuel Vale acting the part of Goliah Spiderlimb, the comic servant in Jerrold's The Smoked Miser.[101]
"Dollikins and the Miser : Frances Eaton : Free Download & Streaming : Internet Archive"
Text at Victorian Plays project Archived 2014-04-07 at the Wayback Machine
"British Museum - Image gallery: Mr Shutter in the Character of Lovegold". British Museum.
China Daily, 13 Feb 2009, "Daughter sued by dad over 'miser' poem"
"File:Jan Provoost - Death and the Miser - WGA18447.jpg". wikimedia.org.
The 18th century, so culturally rich in miser lore, furnished some notable poetic examples. Allan Ramsay's “Last speech of a wretched miser” dates from 1728 and is written in modified Scots dialect. The miser bids farewell to his riches in a comic monologue and details some of his shifts to avoid expense.[54] Alexander Pope created another masterly portrait in the character of Cotta in his Epistle to Bathurst (1733). Reluctance to spend confines this aristocrat to his ancestral hall, where he refuses to engage with the world.[55] Later in the century another Scottish poet, Dr William Stevenson (1719–83), included nine satirical epitaphs on misers among his collected works, of which the last begins:
^ "Vaughan Williams Memorial Library - Welcome to the English Folk Dance and Song Society". vwml.org.
This page was last edited on 14 March 2023, at 02:40 (UTC).
"Art UK - William Farren as Lovegold in 'The Miser' by Henry Fielding". Art UK.
Among other details in Gillray's crowded print is a fashionably dressed prostitute coming through the door. Lechery was supposed to be an attribute of some misers, exposing them to a contest between satisfying this weakness and their overmastering passion to save expense, as exemplified in the Old Gripus print. Thomas Rowlandson points to one solution of his dilemma in a print showing a miser engaged with two nude prostitutes whom has hired for the price of one.[162] In another Rowlandson revisits the theme of the meager feast, depicting his miser crouched by an empty grate and keeping himself warm by hugging his money-bags. A hag enters, bringing a tiny portion to eat on a plate which a famished cat scrambles to reach.[163] One more dichotomy explored by Rowlandson appears in his watercolour of "The spendthrift and the miser".[164] The drunken young man alarming the miser there is probably his son, taking up a literary theme to be found, among other places, in Allan Ramsay's comic monologue. It will be remembered too that the thriftless ne'er-do-well of A Rake's Progress inherited his money from a miserly father.
^ Scarlet Bowen, The Politics of Custom in Eighteenth-Century British Fiction, London 2010 footnote on p.185
In the Hieronymus Bosch Death and the Miser, the pull between spirituality and materialism is highlighted by making the deathbed a scene of conflict between the angel and demons. Quentin Matsys suggests the same polarity in his The moneylender and his wife (1514).[149] Here the woman is studying a religious book while her husband is testing coins by weight. In the hands of the later Marinus van Reymerswaele the contrast disappears. The wife of his moneylender is shown helping with the bookkeeping and leaning sideways, as mesmerised as her husband by the pile of coins.[150] Gillis van Tilborch's painting of much the same scene is titled The Misers and again demonstrates the ambivalent targets of the moral message. The only difference is that the couple engaged in inspecting their money are old, as was the case in all the allegories of avarice.[151] David Teniers the Younger depicted a couple similarly engaged in 1648 which was later engraved in France by Pierre-François Basan under the title Le plaisir des vieillards (the pleasures of old age). Verses as the bottom underline the moral: "Why do you make/ such piles of gold?/ Soon you’ll grow old/ and Death takes all.[152]
^ Mike Hannon. "The Miser". eroti-cart.com. Archived from the original on 2014-08-26. Retrieved 2014-08-22.
The Asse which dainty meates doth beareAnd feedes on thistles all the yeareIs like the wretch that hourds up goldAnd yet for want doth suffer cold.[52]
Kupersmith, William (2007). English Versions of Roman Satire in the Earlier Eighteenth Century. Cranbury, NJ: Associated University Presses. p. 95.
"The Soul of Nicholas Snyders, Or the Miser Of Zandam, by Jerome K. Jerome"
Characterisation of misers has been a frequent focus in prose fiction:
^ "Ante-Nicene Fathers, Vol II: THE PASTOR OF HERMAS: Similitude Second. As the Vine is Supported by the Elm, So is the Rich Man Helped by the Prayer of the Poor". sacred-texts.com.
"British Museum - Image gallery: Mr Shutter in the Character of Lovegold"
^ "British Museum - Mr Ryder in the character of Lovegold". British Museum.
"Biographical Curiosities; or, Various pictures of human nature. Containing ..."
^ "The Actor Grandmesnil, picture art prints and posters by Jean Baptiste Francois Desoria - ARTFLAKES.COM". artflakes.com. Archived from the original on 2013-06-08. Retrieved 2013-03-19.
"The Eccentric Mirror:: Reflecting a Faithful and Interesting Delineation of ..." archive.org. 1813.
^ Berger, Kathleen (2000). The Developing Person. New York: Worth Publishers. p. 218. ISBN 1-57259-417-9.
Clifford Sawhney, 50 Wittiest Tales Of Birbal, Bangalore 2005, "A question of 'like'", pp. 47–9
Ebenezer Scrooge – the lead character of A Christmas Carol (1843) by Charles Dickens.[117] He too was based on John Elwes. The story has been adapted many times for stage and screen.
"British Museum - Mr Vale as Goliah Spiderlimb". British Museum.
An account of him was given in The Gentleman's Magazine for 1788, pp.510-11
In the realm of popular poetry, there were a range of narrative broadside ballads concerning misers from the 17th century onward. Some of the earliest deal with the grain speculators who caused such suffering to the poorest.A representative example is "The Wretched Miser" (1682), prefaced as "a brief Account of a covetous Farmer, who bringing a Load of Corn to Market, swore the Devil should have it before he would take the honest Market price". The devil closes with the bargain and on accounting day carries off the farmer as well.[58] The social message is carried by the refrain that follows each stanza: "O Farmers, covetous Farmers,/ why would you pinch the Poor?" The religious aspect is dealt with in the contemporary "A Looking-glass for a covetous Miser" by Thomas Jordan. Here a West Country entrepreneur and a poor husbandman debate the respective merits of anxious profit-making and contentment.The miser laments the current low price of grain and resolves not to sell or plant more until the price rises.[59] The theme continued into the early 19th century, where a farmer is again the subject of "The life and awful death of a rich miser ".[60]
John Scarve – in the novel The Miser's Daughter (1842) by William Harrison Ainsworth.[116] The story is set in the 1770s and the character of Scarve was inspired by the real-life miser John Elwes.
Farjeon, Benjamin Leopold (1889). Miser Farebrother: A Novel (Complete). ISBN 9781465528162.
"File:Sassetta - Damnation of the Soul of the Miser of Citerna - WGA20866.jpg"
A sub-theme of this kind of contrast occurred in Hans Holbein the Younger's "The Miser and his Mistress". There a young woman in luxuriant Renaissance dress stands behind an ugly miser, reaching across him to take coins from the money bags he clutches to his chest, while he looks up at her, crying out with a grimace and trying to push away her hand. An updated version by Philip Dawe was published as a print in 1773 under the title of The Scramble, or Old Gripus plunder'd by his Young Wife. Underneath is a verse commentary:
^ "Memoir of Margery Jackson, the Carlisle miser & misanthrope". archive.org. 1848.
"Art UK - William Farren as Lovegold in 'The Miser' by Henry Fielding"
"Vaughan Williams Memorial Library - Welcome to the English Folk Dance and Song Society"
The majority of the misers are 18th century characters, with John Elwes and Daniel Dancer at their head. The first account of Elwes' life was Edward Topham's The Life of the Late John Elwes: Esquire (1790), which was initially published in his paper The World. The popularity of such accounts is attested by the seven editions printed in the book's first year and the many later reprintings under various titles.[13] Biographies of Dancer followed soon after, at first in periodicals such as the Edinburgh Magazine[14] and theSporting Magazine,[15] then in the compendiums Biographical Curiosities (which also included Elwes)[16] and The Strange and Unaccountable Life of Daniel Dancer, Esq. ... with singular anecdotes of the famous Jemmy Taylor, the Southwark usurer (1797), which was often to be reissued under various titles.[17]
"British Museum - Mr Yates in the character of Lovegold"
^ "The miser married : a novel. In three volumes : Hutton, Catherine, 1756-1846 : Free Download & Streaming : Internet Archive". Internet Archive. 1813.
Trina McTeague, the miserly wife in McTeague: a story of San Francisco (1899) by Frank Norris.[123] As avarice slowly overtakes her, she withdraws her savings so that she can gloat over the money and even roll about in it. The book was the basis for a silent film in 1916 and Erich von Stroheim's Greed in 1924.More recently, it was also the basis for William Bolcom's opera McTeague (1992).[124]
Eventually losing both, he becomes the embodiment of frustrated jealousy.
"The Gipsey Bride: Or, the Miser's Daughter. By the Author of Jane Shore ..."
^ M.M.Badawi, "Arabic drama: early developments" in Modern Arabic Literature, Cambridge 1992, pp.331-2
Jemmy Taylor's name also appears in the list of notable misers that Mr Boffin enumerates. He is coupled with the banker Jemmy Wood of Gloucester, a more recent miser about whom Dickens later wrote an article in his magazine All The Year Round.[18] Others include John Little (who appears in Merryweather), Reverend Mr Jones of Blewbury (also in Merryweather) and Dick Jarrel, whose surname was really Jarrett and an account of whom appeared in the Annual Register for 1806.[19] The many volumes of this publication also figured among Mr Boffin's purchases.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"miser - definition of miser in English from the Oxford dictionary". oxforddictionaries.com. Archived from the original on August 11, 2012.
Ay when to him she cryde, to her he turnd,And left the fyre; love money overcame:But when he marked how him money burnd,He left his wyf; money did love disclame.[53]
^ The Methuen Drama Dictionary of the Theatre,Pantaloon entry, p.374
M.M.Badawi, "Arabic drama: early developments" in Modern Arabic Literature, Cambridge 1992, pp.331-2
^ Edward Copping, Alfieri and Goldoni: Their Lives and Adventures, London 1857, p.259
^ a b Bayard, Jean François Alfred; Duport, Paul (1835). "La fille de l'avare". google.co.uk.
^ "Raja Ravi Varma Oil Painting 59 - The Miser". cyberkerala.com.
Folk Songs of the Catskills, State University of New York, 1982, pp.187-9
"The Eccentric Mirror:: Reflecting a Faithful and Interesting Delineation of ..."
In addition, the challenging and complex part of Shylock was favoured by English artists. Johann Zoffany painted Charles Macklin in the role that had brought him fame at the Covent Garden Theatre (1767–68)[106] and Thomas Gray portrayed a confrontation between Shylock and his daughter Jessica (1868).[107] Character portraits of other actors in Shylock's role have included Henry Urwick (1859–1931) by Walter Chamberlain Urwick (1864-1943),[108] Herbert Beerbohm Tree by Charles Buchel[109] and Arthur Bourchier, also by Buchel.[110]
"miser - definition of miser in English from the Oxford dictionary"
One attempt to account for miserly behaviour was Sigmund Freud's theory of anal retentiveness, attributing the development of miserly behaviour to toilet training in childhood,[2] although this explanation is not accepted by modern evidence-based psychology.[3]
Yet another genre was the Allegory of Avarice, of which one of the earliest examples is Albrecht Dürer's painting of a naked old woman with a sack of coins (1507).[143]This makes the point that age comes to all and confiscates all consolations. A woman is chosen as subject because the Latin avaritia is of the feminine gender. Low Countries artists who took up the allegorical theme added the variation of making the woman examine a coin by the light of a candle or lantern, as in the paintings by Gerrit van Honthorst[144]and Mathias Stomer.[145] In his own allegorical treatment, Paulus Moreelse made the link with the dance of death genre by introducing a young boy slyly fingering the coins while keeping a wary eye on the woman to see if she has noticed.[146] These Dutch variations were mostly painted during the 1620s, when Rembrandt too borrowed the imagery, but his candlelit examiner of a coin is male and the piece is variously titled "The Money Changer" or "The Rich Fool", in reference to the parable already mentioned.[147] Jan Steen, on the other hand, makes his subject very obviously a miser who hugs a small sack of coins and holds one up for intent inspection.[148]
Another area of ambivalence centres on the kind of clothes worn by the so-called misers. The subject of Hendrik Gerritsz Pot's painting from the 1640s in the Uffizi is fashionably dressed and wearing a ring. He may be inspired by the wealth and jewelry piled on his table, but he obviously has no objection to advertising his well-to-do status.[153] On the other hand, the Miser Casting His Accounts presented by Jan Lievens is poorly dressed and his interest in hoarding is indicated by the way he gloats on the key that will lock his money away.[154] The same dichotomy occurs in later centuries. Jean-Baptiste Le Prince's miser is also richly robed as he sits surrounded by his possessions,[155] while Theodore Bernard Heuvel's miser sits on the chest containing his hoard and looks anxiously over his shoulder.[156] Paul Gavarni's miser shows much the same apprehension as he leans on the table where his money is piled and glances round suspiciously.[157]
In Asia misers were the butt of humorous folklore. One very early cautionary tale is the Illisa Jataka from the Buddhist scriptures. This includes two stories, in the first of which a rich miser is miraculously converted to generosity by a disciple of the Buddha; following this, the Buddha tells another story of a miser whose wealth is given away when the king of the gods impersonates him, and when he tries to intervene is threatened with what will happen if he does not change his ways.[36] Two 16th century stories concerning misers are included among the witticisms attributed to Birbal during Mughal times. In one he extracts from a casuistical miser a fee for a poem written in his praise.[37] In the other the miser is forced to reward a merchant who rescued his hoard from a fire with the whole of it.[38] Arabs similarly made extensive use of misers in their literature. The most famous being the 600 page collection of anecdotes called Kitab Al Bukhala or Book of Misers by Al-Jāḥiẓ. He lived in 800 CE during the Abbasid Caliphate in Basra, making this the earliest and largest known work on the subject in Arabic literature.
Richard Newhauser, The Early History of Greed: The Sin of Avarice in Early Medieval Thought and Literature, Cambridge 2000, p.31
Jennifer Doane Upton (March 2005), Dark Way to Paradise, ISBN 9781597310093
^ "Margery Jackson (1722–1812), Hiring Croglin Watty at Carlisle Cross". Art UK.
^ Farjeon, Benjamin Leopold (1889). Miser Farebrother: A Novel (Complete). ISBN 9781465528162.
Felix Grandet – whose daughter is the title character in the novel Eugénie Grandet (1833) by Balzac.[114]
^ "A Tale of the Miser and the Poet". upenn.edu.
"Art UK - A Miser Casting His Accounts". Art UK.
^ Roy Bearden-White, How the Wind Sits; Or, The History of Henry and Ann Lemoine, Chapbook Writers and Publishers of the Late Eighteenth Century, Southern Illinois University 2007 pp.55-7
"The Actor Grandmesnil, picture art prints and posters by Jean Baptiste Francois Desoria - ARTFLAKES.COM"
^ "File:Sassetta - Damnation of the Soul of the Miser of Citerna - WGA20866.jpg". wikimedia.org.
"British Museum - Image gallery: The Scramble, or Old Gripus plunder'd by his Young Wife". British Museum.
"British Museum - Mr Yates in the character of Lovegold". British Museum.
^ The Songs and Ballads of Cumberland, George Routledge & Sons, 1866, pp. 330–3
Following on from the continuing success of Molière's L'Avare, there was a spate of French plays dealing with misers and their matrimonial plans over the next century and a half. What complicates matters is that several of these had the same title but were in fact separate plays written by different authors. L'Avare Amoureux (The Miser in Love) by Jean du Mas d' Aigueberre (1692–1755) was a one-act comedy acted in Paris in 1729.[83] It is not the same as the anonymous one-act comedy of the same title published in 1777.[84]
Roy Bearden-White, How the Wind Sits; Or, The History of Henry and Ann Lemoine, Chapbook Writers and Publishers of the Late Eighteenth Century, Southern Illinois University 2007 pp.55-7
Neist my deame she e'en starv'd me, that niver liv'd weel;Her hard words and luiks wou'd ha'e freeten'd the deil:She hed a lang beard, for aw t' warl leyke a billy goat, wi' a kil-dried frosty feace: and then the smawest leg o' mutton in aw Carel market sarrad the cat, me, and hur for a week.[67]
^ "Dollikins and the Miser : Frances Eaton : Free Download & Streaming : Internet Archive". Internet Archive. 1890.
^ "British Museum - Mr Yates in the character of Lovegold". British Museum.
"Jean de La Fontaine's Fable Poem: The Treasure And The Two Men". readbookonline.net. Archived from the original on 2012-04-15.
Silas Marner – title character of George Eliot's novel Silas Marner (1861), who eventually abandons his avaricious ways.[120]
"British Museum - Mr Ryder in the character of Lovegold". British Museum.
"British Museum - Mr Ryder in the character of Lovegold"
"British Museum - Image gallery: Mr W. Farren, as Lovegold"
"Dollikins and the Miser : Frances Eaton : Free Download & Streaming : Internet Archive". Internet Archive. 1890.
Douglas William Jerrold's John Overy or The Miser of Southwark Ferry, (1828)also brings in a daughter whom the miser attempts to sell off as a mistress to her disguised lover.[91] Earlier Jerrold had written a one-act farce, The Smoked Miser or The Benefit of Hanging (1823), in which a miser tries to marry off his ward to advantage.[92] Another farce produced in Canada, Major John Richardson's The Miser Outwitted (1841), had an Irish theme and dealt with a plot to trick a miser out of his money.[93] The later Thomas Peckett Prest's The Miser of Shoreditch or the Curse of Avarice (1854) was based on a penny dreadful story by him; later he adapted it as a two-act romantic drama set in time of Henry VIII.[94]
^ Klaus Neiiendam, The Art of Acting in Antiquity, Museum Tusculanum Press, 1992, pp.25-7
^ Lantz, K. A. (2004). The Dostoevsky encyclopedia. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 118. ISBN 0-313-30384-3.
There were also independent dramatic depictions of misers, some of them being variations of the Pantaleone figure in 16th-century Italian commedia dell’arte. He is represented as a rich and miserly Venetian merchant, later to become the father of Columbina.[80] The Venetian characters who reappear in English drama include the Jewish moneylender Shylock in William Shakespeare's The Merchant of Venice (1598) and the title character of Ben Jonson's Volpone (1606). In Aubrey Beardsley's title page for the latter, Volpone is shown worshiping his possessions, in illustration of the lines from the play, "Dear Saint, / Riches, the dumb god that giv'st all men tongues."[81] A similar scene takes place in the second act of Alexander Pushkin's short tragedy Skupoi rytsar (1836). This concerns a son, Albert, kept short of funds by his father, the Baron. Under the title The Miserly Knight, it was made an opera by Sergei Rachmaninoff in 1906.[82] In the corresponding act in the latter, the Baron visits his underground storehouse, where he gloats at a new addition to his coffers and moodily contemplates the extravagance of his son during a 15-minute solo.
One trait of misers arising out of the accounts about them was their readiness to incur legal expenses where money was involved. Daniel Dancer was notorious for spending five shillings in an unsuccessful effort to recover three pence from a shop woman.[26] He was also involved in a lawsuit with his equally miserly brothers when his sister died intestate, although this time he was more successful.[27] In the same century, Margery Jackson was involved in an epic Chancery suit between 1776–91 over a family inheritance.[28] The American Hetty Green, who despite being a multimillionaire had also a reputation as a miser, involved herself in a six-year lawsuit to obtain her aunt's fortune, only to have it proved against her that she had forged the will.[29] More modern times yield the Chinese example of an 80-year-old affronted by being called a miser in a poem by his son-in-law. Blaming his hospitalization with Parkinson's disease three years later on this, he sued his daughter for medical fees and 'spiritual compensation'.[30]
"File:Sassetta - Damnation of the Soul of the Miser of Citerna - WGA20866.jpg". wikimedia.org.
"Margery Jackson (1722–1812), Hiring Croglin Watty at Carlisle Cross". Art UK.
^ Text at Victorian Plays project Archived 2014-04-07 at the Wayback Machine
A miser rots beneath this mould'ring stone,Who starv'd himself through spleen to skin and bone,Lest worms might riot on his flesh at lastAnd boast, what he ne'er could, a full repast.[56]
^ "British Museum - Image gallery: Mr Shutter in the Character of Lovegold". British Museum.
Misers were represented onstage as comic figures from Classical times. One of the earliest appears in the comic Phlyax plays developed in the Greek colonies in Italy during the 4th century BCE, which are known only from rare fragments and titles. They were also popularly represented on Greek vases, often with the names of the characters written above them. In one of these by Asteas two men are depicted robbing a miser.[71] At the centre the miser Charinos has settled for sleep on top of hisstrongbox in the comfort of two blankets. He is rudely awoken by two rascals mishandling him in an effort to lay their hands on his riches. On the left, Gymnilos has already pulled away the blanket on top of him while, on the right, Kosios drags out the blanket beneath. On the far right, the miser's slave Karion stands with outstretched arms and knocking knees.[72]
^ "Hans Holbein's dance of death, Rich man / Miser". dodedans.com.
Scarlet Bowen, The Politics of Custom in Eighteenth-Century British Fiction, London 2010 footnote on p.185
^ "Riceyman Steps – Arnold Bennett". Several eBooks Free. Archived from the original on 2020-08-04. Retrieved 2014-08-20.
"The miser married : a novel. In three volumes : Hutton, Catherine, 1756-1846 : Free Download & Streaming : Internet Archive". Internet Archive. 1813.
"Raja Ravi Varma Oil Painting 59 - The Miser". cyberkerala.com.
Uncle Jan and his nephew Thijs in Hendrik Conscience's novel of Flemish peasant life, De Gierigaard (1853, translated into English as "The Miser" in 1855).[119]
Molière's L'Avare was not altogether eclipsed in England by the work adapted from it. A drawing by William Hogarth of the play's denouement was included as a print in the translation of Molière's work[102] and prints based upon it were made by various other engravers.[103] William Powell Frith devoted one of his theatrical paintings to a scene from L'Avare in 1876[104] while the French actor Grandmesnil in the role of Harpagon was painted by Jean-Baptiste François Desoria.[105]
^ "British Museum - Image gallery: Scenes from Aesop's Fables". British Museum.
^ Folk Songs of the Catskills, State University of New York, 1982, pp.187-9
"Web Gallery of Art, image collection, virtual museum, searchable database of European fine arts (1000-1900)". wga.hu.
^ "Art UK - A Miser Casting His Accounts". Art UK.
"Les avares". linternaute.com. Archived from the original on 2015-02-13. Retrieved 2013-05-08.
English depictions of misers in the 18th century begin as genre paintings. Gainsborough Dupont's poorly dressed character clutches a bag of coin and looks up anxiously in the painting in the Ashmolean Museum.[159] John Cranch (1751-1821) pictures two armed desperadoes breaking in on his.[160] However, it is in the realm of satirical prints that the most inventiveness is found. James Gillray does not neglect the moral dimension either in his "The miser's feast" (1786). He is pictured seated at a table eating a meager meal, attended by Death in the guise of an emaciated and naked manservant holding in his right hand a tray with a bone on it and behind him, in his left hand, the dart of death. Famine, a withered hag naked to the waist, is also in attendance wearing a large hat and fashionable skirt. These characters are identified by the verse at the bottom: "What else can followbut destructive fate,/When Famine holds the cup and Death the plate?"[161]
^ "File:Phlyax scene on a calyx krater by Asteas Antikensammlung Berlin F3044 5.jpg". wikimedia.org.
"Jean Baptiste Leprince. Expert art authentication, certificates of authenticity and expert art appraisals - Art Experts"
Séraphin Poudrier, the central figure in Claude-Henri Grignon's Un Homme et son péché (1933). This French-Canadian novel was translated into English as "The Woman and the Miser" in 1978. Set at the end of the 19th century, the novel broke with the convention of extolling rural life and depicts a miser who mistreats his wife and lets her die because calling in a doctor would cost money. There have been adaptations for stage, radio, TV and two films, of which the most recent was Séraphin: un homme et son péché (2002), titled Séraphin: Heart of Stone in the English-language version.
Bennett, Mary E. (1841). "The Gipsey Bride: Or, the Miser's Daughter. By the Author of Jane Shore ..." google.co.uk.
Such stock figures eventually provided inspiration for the Latin dramas of Plautus.[73]The character of Euclio in his Aulularia was to be particularly influential, as was the complicating subplot of a marriageable daughter.[74] One of the earliest Renaissance writers to adapt the play was the Croatian Marin Držić in about 1555, whose Skup (The Miser) is set in Dubrovnik. Ben Jonson adapted elements from Plautus for his early comedy The Case is Altered (c. 1597).[75] The miser there is the Milanese Jaques de Prie, who has a (supposed) daughter, Rachel. Pieter Corneliszoon Hooft and Samuel Coster followed with their very popular Dutch comedy Warenar (1617). The play is named from the miser, whose daughter is Claartje. Molière adapted Plautus' play into French as L'Avare (The Miser, 1668) while in England Thomas Shadwell adapted Molière's work in 1672[76] and a version based on both Plautus and Molière was produced by Henry Fielding in 1732.[77] Among later adaptations there was Vasily Pashkevich's 18th-century Russian comic opera The Miser and pioneering dramatic works in Arabic by Marun Al Naqqash (1817–55)[78] and in Serbian by Jovan Sterija Popović.[79]
^ Anindya Roy, Akbar-Birbal Jokes, New Delhi 2005 "The Miser's Misery", pp. 125–6
A miser /ˈmaɪzər/ is a person who is reluctant to spend, sometimes to the point of forgoing even basic comforts and some necessities, in order to hoard money or other possessions.[1]Although the word is sometimes used loosely to characterise anyone who is mean with their money, if such behaviour is not accompanied by taking delight in what is saved, it is not properly miserly.
Literary manifestations of the theme of the mismatched couple include the Malbecco episode in "The Faerie Queene" and Catherine Hutton's novel "The Miser Married".
^ Translated into blank verse in the 18th century by Bonnell Thornton, available on Google Books
^ Kupersmith, William (2007). English Versions of Roman Satire in the Earlier Eighteenth Century. Cranbury, NJ: Associated University Presses. p. 95.
"Vaughan Williams Memorial Library - Welcome to the English Folk Dance and Song Society". vwml.org.
^ "Les avares". linternaute.com. Archived from the original on 2015-02-13. Retrieved 2013-05-08.
The Gospel Parable of the Rich Fool[136] lies behind another series of paintings which stem ultimately from mediaeval illustrations of the Dance of Death. There a skeleton compels those from all walks of life, but particularly types of the rich and the powerful, to join him in his dance to the grave. In 1538 Hans Holbein the Younger initiated a popular treatment of this subject in which each type is separately illustrated, of which there were many imitations in succeeding centuries.[137] Among the depictions is a man starting up in protest behind a table piled with wealth on which a skeleton is laying hands. In his print of 1651, Wenceslas Hollar makes the connection with the parable clear by quoting from it in the frame.[138]A variation is provided by Jan Provoost's 16th century diptych in which death confronts the man of affairs with his own account.[139] A century later, Frans Francken the Youngertreats the theme twice, in both versions of which a skeleton serenades a luxuriously dressed greybeard sitting at a table.[140] Another curious variation occurs in Pieter Quast's print of "The Miser and Death" (1643). Here the man sits at table clasping his money bags while contemplating a skull wearing a plumed hat, beside which is an hour-glass. The visitation of death is carried forward in the 19th century in similarly titled works. They include a portrayal by Franz Häussler (1845-1920) of an old man standing at his desk who peers round fearfully as he glimpses a skull reflected in a mirror.[141] The charcoal and watercolour drawing by the Austrian Albert Plattner (1869–1919) is more ambiguous and has the figures facing away from each other in a cramped space.[142]
Berger, Kathleen (2000). The Developing Person. New York: Worth Publishers. p. 218. ISBN 1-57259-417-9.
^ Richard Newhauser, The Early History of Greed: The Sin of Avarice in Early Medieval Thought and Literature, Cambridge 2000, p.31
^ "The Eccentric Mirror:: Reflecting a Faithful and Interesting Delineation of ..." archive.org. 1813.
John Overs, with a slight change to his name, became the subject of a three-act drama by Douglas William Jerrold, John Overy or The Miser of Southwark Ferry (1828), roughly based on an incident when he feigned death to save expenses and was killed by accident.[21]
There were beside many other prolific and once popular novelists who addressed themselves to the subject of miserliness. For the most part theirs were genre works catering to readers in the circulating libraries of the 19th century. Among them was the gothic novel The miser and his family (1800) by Eliza Parsons and Catherine Hutton's The miser married (1813). The latter was an epistolary novel in which Charlotte Montgomery describes her own romantic affairs and in addition those of her mother, an unprincipled spendthrift who has just married the miser of the title.[126] Another female novelist, Mary E. Bennett (1813–99), set her The Gipsy Bride or the Miser's Daughter (1841) in the 16th century.[127] Mary Elizabeth Braddon's Aurora Floyd (1863) was a successful sensation novel in which banknotes rather than gold are the object of desire and a motive for murder.[128] It was dramatised the same year and later toured the US; in 1912 it was made a silent film. Later examples include Eliza Lynn Linton's Paston Carew, Millionaire and Miser (1886); Miser Farebrother (1888) by Benjamin Leopold Farjeon;[129] and Dollikins and the Miser (1890) by the American Frances Eaton.[130] In 1904 Jerome K. Jerome created Nicholas Snyders, The Miser of Zandam in a sentimental story of the occult in which the Dutch merchant persuades a generous young man to exchange souls with him.[131]
"Biographical Curiosities; or, Various pictures of human nature. Containing ..." google.co.uk. 1797.
Klaus Neiiendam, The Art of Acting in Antiquity, Museum Tusculanum Press, 1992, pp.25-7
"The Athenaeum - Allegory of avarice (Paulus Moreelse - )". www.the-athenaeum.org.
C. T. Hsia, The Classic Chinese Novel: A Critical Introduction, Chinese University Press, 2016
Mr. Prokharchin – title character of the short story Mr. Prokharchin (1846) by Fyodor Dostoyevsky.[118]
Fardarougha Donovan in the Irish William Carleton's Fardarougha the Miser (1839).[115]
Shuliar, Orest: History of Vocal Art. Ivano-Frankivsk: Institute of Arts of Vasyl Stefanyk Precarpathian National University, 2013. P. 13.
"I never saw anything more diverse and magnificent! There were more than 500 actors performing on stage for just a handful of people. There were a maximum of 50 people watching the whole thing, and that was because the Empress restricts the access to her Hermitage" (A contemporary account on the staging of the opera "Fevey")
^ a b Kuzyk, Valentyna: Ukrainian Musical Encyclopedia. Kyiv: Rylsky Institute of Art Studies, Folklore and Ethnology, 2018. P. 117.
The Early Reign of Oleg (Начальное управление Олега — Nachal'noye upravleniye Olega,November 2, 1790 St. Petersburg– together with Giuseppe Sarti and the Milanese musician Carlo Cannobio)
Vasily Pashkevich entered court service in 1756 becoming a court composer to Tsar Peter III of Russia and later to his widow, Catherine the Great. He also played violin, and taught singing in the Academy of Arts 1773-1774 and later in the court capella. Between 1780 and 1783 he managed the Karl Kniper Theatre and in 1789 he became the first violin of the court orchestra, remaining in charge of imperial ballroom music until his death.
This page was last edited on 5 October 2022, at 15:18 (UTC).
Pashkevich wrote important comic operas, often re-working them at length, like Saint-Petersburg's Trade Stalls, begun in 1782 and revised in 1792, and also As you live you will be judged.
C10 06853-56. Pashkevich, Vasili. Скупой [The Miser] (1781). Vladimir Agronsky. Chamber Orchestra of Moscow Chamber Musical Theater (recorded 1978)USSR: Melodiya. stereo. Produced by Boris Pokrovsky
Russkoe barokko - Zolotaya klassika (CD) Label(s): RCD Music RCD 30649 Year of production: 2003, Year of recording: 2003, Baroque Chamber Ensemble. Including:
Warrack, John and West, Ewan (1992), The Oxford Dictionary of Opera, 782 pages,.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 0-19-869164-5
The Burden Is Not Heavy if It Is Yours (Своя ноша не тянет — Svoya nosha ne tyanet, 1794)
Fedul and his Children (Федул с детьми — Fedul s det'mi, libretto by Empress Catherine II,January 27, 1791 St. Petersburg– together with Vicente Martín y Soler)
Kuzyk, Valentyna: Ukrainian Musical Encyclopedia. Kyiv: Rylsky Institute of Art Studies, Folklore and Ethnology, 2018. P. 117.
The comic opera The Miser a work of 17 scenes brought him most success. Its roles are: Scriagin, Liubima’s guardian; Liubima, his niece; Milovid, her beloved; Marfa, the servant girl that Scriagin is in love with; Prolaz, Milovid’s manservant who is in Scriagin’s service. Accordingly the speech and the names of the characters of Molière's comedy were turned into Russian as well as the music that combines some features of European form with typically Russian melodies.
Misfortune from Owning a Coach (Несчастье от кареты — Neschastye ot karety, libretto by Yakov Knyazhnin, 1772?, November 7, 1779 St. Petersburg )
Fevey (libretto by Catherine II, April 19, 1786 St. Petersburg)
Catherine had literary ambitions, and Pashkevich was asked to set one of her own opera libretti for performance at the royal court. The result of this, opera Fevey, was staged on April 19, 1786 at the Hermitage Theatre in St. Petersburg.The lavish opera production evoked widespread admiration. Despite the success of Pashkevich's work during his years serving under Catherine II, his contributions were not appreciated by the Empress's heirs, who terminated his services and denied him a pension.
Free scores by Vasily Pashkevich at the International Music Score Library Project (IMSLP)
The Miser (Скупой — Skupoy, 1782?, Moscow, 1811? Yakov Knyazhnin after Molière)
Vasily Pashkevich was of Ukrainian origin[2] and according to some sources was born in Ukraine.[1]
Saint-Petersburg's Bazaar (Санкт Петербургский Гостиный Двор — Sankt Peterburgskiy Gostinyi Dvor, libretto by Mikhail Matinsky 1782 St. Petersburg), revised as You'll be Known by the Way you Live (Как поживёшь, так и прослывёшь — Kak pozhivyosh', tak i proslyvyosh, 1792 St. Petersburg)
The Pasha of Tunis (Паша Тунисский — Pasha tunisskiy, libretto by Mikhail Matinsky, 1782)
Vasily Alexeyevich Pashkevichalso Paskevich(Russian: Васи́лий Алексе́евич Пашке́вич or Паске́вич) (c. 1742, probably Ukraine[1] – March 20, 1797 in St. Petersburg) was a Russian composer, singer, violinist and teacher of Ukrainian origin[2] who lived during the time of Catherine the Great.
His style is similar to Italian opera buffa, but unlike them, the comic situations of his works are often overshadowed by vaguely tragic scenes. His operas are full of citations of popular songs, that later become one of the important characteristics of the great 19th-century Russian opera.
^ a b Shuliar, Orest: History of Vocal Art. Ivano-Frankivsk: Institute of Arts of Vasyl Stefanyk Precarpathian National University, 2013. P. 13.
^ In It for the Money (UK CD album liner notes). Supergrass. Parlophone. 1997. CDPCS 7388, 7243 8 55228 2 6.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ "Supergrass Chart History (Alternative Airplay)". Billboard.Retrieved 3 March 2019.
This page was last edited on 8 June 2022, at 02:26 (UTC).
"Cheapskate" is a song from English rock band Supergrass's second album, In It for the Money (1997). It was released only in the United States and Canada in 1997, rising to number 35 on the US Billboard Hot Modern Rock Tracks chart and number 11 on the Canadian RPM Alternative 30. While being only a 7-inch jukebox single with "Going Out", it has an accompanying music video that was left off the Supergrass Is 10 DVD. The song is said by the band themselves to have drawn influences from Kool & the Gang.[2]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Cheapskate (US 7-inch jukebox single vinyl disc). Supergrass. Capitol Records. 1997. S7-724381955673.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
In It for the Money (UK CD album liner notes). Supergrass. Parlophone. 1997. CDPCS 7388, 7243 8 55228 2 6.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ "Top RPM Rock/Alternative Tracks: Issue 3251." RPM. Library and Archives Canada.Retrieved 3 March 2019.
{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Top RPM Rock/Alternative Tracks: Issue 3251." RPM. Library and Archives Canada.Retrieved 3 March 2019.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Cheapskate (US 7-inch jukebox single vinyl disc). Supergrass. Capitol Records. 1997. S7-724381955673.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
This 1990s rock song-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Credits are taken from the In It for the Money album liner notes.[3]
Despite his common external appearance of selfishness, foolhardiness, or emotional detachment, the lovable rogue may in fact strongly associate with a highly idealistic belief system and understand the concept of a code of honor so highly valued that it transcends normal social constraints such as conformity, tradition, or the law. This sense of an internalized, personal code is usually what makes the lovable rogue lovable, since it serves to confirm that he is moral whereas he may have appeared at first glance to be immoral. The lovable rogue, thus, is not a villain, because he has either a sincere, strong sense of morality (though he may be unwilling to expose it) or has the definite potential for establishing such a moral sense. In addition, his tendency to violate norms may be regarded as a positive trait—having a highly individualistic, creative, or self-reliant personality.
James Huneker wrote of Francis Wilson portrayal of the lovable rogue
Although they appear at first to act only for personal gain or to break the law needlessly, lovable rogues are often justified in these actions later on due to some ethical motivation that had not yet been revealed at the time or, at least, have the capacity to atone for their wrongdoings. Many lovable rogues are simply prone to being misled when making ethical decisions while others who appear to act unethically actually maintain a flexible and complicated but legitimate code of ethics.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Bell, Terena (2021-01-28). "Fiction Writing Lessons from Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice". Medium. Retrieved 2021-02-02.
The lovable rogue is a fictional stock character, often from a working-class upbringing, who tends to recklessly defy social norms and social conventions, but who still evokes empathy from the audience or other characters.
Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed.
Find sources: "Lovable rogue" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Lovable rogue" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Lovable rogues are not the standard paragons of virtue because they frequently break the law or seem to act for their own personal profit; however, they are charming or sympathetic enough to convince the audience to root for them. As with the case of George Wickham in Pride and Prejudice, authors may even intentionally write them that way in order to hide the fact that they are a villain from readers until this information becomes necessary to plot.[1]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Bell, Terena (2021-01-28). "Fiction Writing Lessons from Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice". Medium. Retrieved 2021-02-02.
The lovable rogue is generally male and is often trying to "beat the system" and better himself, though not by ordinary or widely accepted means. If the protagonist of a story is also a lovable rogue, he is frequently deemed an antihero. The lovable rogue's wild disposition is viewed not as repulsive and alarming so much as exciting and adventurous. Some examples of this include: Snide or arrogant remarks, brawn over brains (yet challenging calls to action with wit before brawn), using their gut instincts to get out of hostility if personal profit is at stake, perhaps they love themselves more than women, thinking fast and talking faster, as well as having aspirations for a better life. The lovable rogue is generally regarded as handsome or attractive and his daredevil attitude further makes him sexually desirable to other characters. He often has a fiery temper and is streetwise—possessing practical knowledge—usually having self-taught and never been educated in a formal setting.
This page was last edited on 10 February 2023, at 00:40 (UTC).
"The Man Alone, the Black Sheep and the Bad Apple: Squeaky Wheels of New Zealand Cinema"
This article about a literature character is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
This New Zealand–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Men Alone". Otago.ac.nz. Retrieved 6 June 2015.
Men alone figure frequently in the literature of newly settled or recently colonised countries such as Australia and especially New Zealand,[2] and the term is likely to have found popularity with the publication of the "Great Kiwi Novel", Man Alone by John Mulgan in 1939 (this novel's title itself originated in a quotation from Ernest Hemingway's To Have and Have Not).[3]
"The Man Alone, the Black Sheep and the Bad Apple: Squeaky Wheels of New Zealand Cinema". Researchspace.auckland.ac.nz. Retrieved 6 June 2015.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Men Alone". Otago.ac.nz. Retrieved 6 June 2015.
^ "New Zealand Book Council". Bookcouncil.org.nz. Retrieved 6 June 2015.
The man alone is a literary stock character. Usually an antihero, he is similar to the Byronic hero. The man alone tends to epitomise existentialism, and, in the words of the academic E. H. McCormick is "the solitary, rootless nonconformist, who in a variety of forms crops up persistently in New Zealand writing".[1]
^ "The Man Alone, the Black Sheep and the Bad Apple: Squeaky Wheels of New Zealand Cinema". Researchspace.auckland.ac.nz. Retrieved 6 June 2015.
This page was last edited on 23 October 2022, at 22:52 (UTC).
^ "What romantic comedies can teach us about ourselves – Feministe". feministe.us. Archived from the original on 26 November 2011. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
McDaniel (2005) constructed vignettes of dates with a stereotypical "nice guy" vs. a stereotypical "fun/sexy guy," and attempted to make them both sound positive. Questionnaires were offered to a group of women in which they were presented with two scenarios, one involving the nice guy and the other involving the fun/sexy guy. The two variables being measured were the women’s likelihood of picking a nice guy versus a fun/sexy guy, and their reasons for so doing. It was found that there was a stronger correlation between a woman’s perceived positive traits in the man than in her goals for the dating relationship, both of which were measured in the questionnaire. The two traits that predicted likelihood for wanting to pursue a relationship were physical attractiveness and niceness/sweetness. However, if a man was perceived to be nice/sweet but was not found physically attractive it hurt his chances of a romantic relationship even more. In the study there was no way to directly measure the physical attractiveness of the men with whom they were presented; they only had information with which they could draw conclusions. Because they could not see the men and only had information to use, McDaniel found that this may suggest that women romanticize the idea of a nice/sweet guy, but often do not choose him because in reality he is likely to be less attractive than a so-called “jerk.”[16]
Sadalla, E. K.; Kenrick, D. T.; Venshure, B. (1987). "Dominance and heterosexual attraction". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 52 (4): 730–738. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.466.7042. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.52.4.730.
Nice Guys Finish First, archived from the original on 20 November 2021, retrieved 20 November 2021
"Physical Attractiveness and the "Nice Guy Paradox": Do Nice Guys Really Finish Last?"
^ Nice Guys Finish Last, by Leo Durocher, with Ed Linn, Simon & Schuster, 1975, renders it as "Take a look at them. All nice guys. They’ll finish last. Nice guys – finish last."
According to McDaniel, popular culture and dating advice "...suggest that women claim they want a 'nice guy' because they believe that is what is expected of them when, in reality, they want the so-called 'challenge' that comes with dating a not-so-nice guy."[1]
^ a b The Yale Book of Quotations, Fred R. Shapiro, Yale University Press, 2006, p. 221 Archived 11 May 2020 at the Wayback Machine
Ahmetoglu and Swami (2012) found that men were rated to be more attractive if women perceived them as more dominant, represented in the study by open body posture and gesticulation.[24]
Botwin, M. D.; Buss, D. M.; Shackelford, T. K. (1997). "Personality and mate preferences: Five factors in mate selection and marital satisfaction". Journal of Personality. 65 (1): 107–136. doi:10.1111/j.1467-6494.1997.tb00531.x. PMID 9143146.
Various studies explicitly try to elucidate the success, or lack thereof, of "nice guys" with women.[1][7][10][11]
S. Herold, Robin R. Milhausen, Edward (1 September 1999). "Dating Preferences of University Women: An Analysis of the Nice Guy Stereotype". Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy. 25 (4): 333–343. doi:10.1080/009262399278788. ISSN 0092-623X. PMID 10546171. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 27 November 2021.
Herold, E. S.; Milhausen, R. R. (October 1999). "Dating preferences of university women: an analysis of the nice guy stereotype". Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy. 25 (4): 333–343. doi:10.1080/00926239908404010. ISSN 0092-623X. PMID 10546171. Archived from the original on 20 November 2021. Retrieved 20 November 2021.
Jensen-Campbell, L. A.; Graziano, W. G.; West, S. G. (1995). "Dominance, prosocial orientation, and female preferences: Do nice guys really finish last?". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 68 (3): 427–440. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.68.3.427.
^ "Why Nice Guys Finish Last". ABC News. 19 June 2008. Archived from the original on 17 May 2020. Retrieved 28 June 2020.
Herold, Edward S.; Milhausen, Robin R. (1999). "Dating preferences of university women: an analysis of the nice guy stereotype". Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy. 25 (4): 333–343. doi:10.1080/00926239908404010. ISSN 0092-623X. PMID 10546171.
Ahmetoglu, G.; Swami, V. (2012). "Do women prefer "nice guys"? The effect of male dominance behavior on women's ratings of sexual attractiveness". Social Behavior and Personality. 40 (4): 667–672. doi:10.2224/sbp.2012.40.4.667. ISSN 0301-2212. Archived from the original on 21 January 2022. Retrieved 21 January 2022.
^ Inman, Mason (18 June 2008). "Bad guys really do get the most girls". New Scientist. Archived from the original on 2 May 2015. Retrieved 6 September 2017.
Boller, Paul F. Jr.; George, John (1989). They Never Said It: A Book of Fake Quotes, Misquotes, and Misleading Attributions. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-505541-2.
According to journalist Paris Martineau, the 'incel' and red pill movements (part of the anti-feminist manosphere) recruit depressed, frustrated men – who may suffer from "Nice Guy syndrome" – into the alt-right.[41]
^ Urbaniak, Geoffrey C.; Kilmann, Peter R. (1 November 2003). "Physical Attractiveness and the "Nice Guy Paradox": Do Nice Guys Really Finish Last?". Sex Roles. 49 (9): 413–426. doi:10.1023/A:1025894203368. ISSN 1573-2762. S2CID 51001366. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 20 November 2021.
Glover, Dr. Robert, http://nomoremrniceguy.com Archived 1 December 2019 at the Wayback Machine
^ S. Herold, Robin R. Milhausen, Edward (1 September 1999). "Dating Preferences of University Women: An Analysis of the Nice Guy Stereotype". Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy. 25 (4): 333–343. doi:10.1080/009262399278788. ISSN 0092-623X. PMID 10546171. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 27 November 2021.
^ McDaniel, A. K. (2005). Young Women’s Dating Behavior: Why/Why Not Date a Nice Guy? Sex Roles, 53(5/6), 347–359. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11199-005-6758-z
1Research on female preferences											Toggle Research on female preferences subsection																					1.1"Nice guy" construct																											1.2Results of research
"Regarding 'Nice Guys' and 'Why Women Only Date Jerks'- A Critique of a Masculine Victim-Cult"
^ "No More Mr. Nice Guy". 12 July 2005. Archived from the original on 17 January 2013. Retrieved 28 March 2013.
"1946 Brooklyn Dodgers Statistics". Baseball-Reference.com. Archived from the original on 13 July 2017. Retrieved 20 November 2021.
This page was last edited on 14 March 2023, at 03:34 (UTC).
"What romantic comedies can teach us about ourselves – Feministe"
"Do 27% of Europeans say rape may be acceptable in some circumstances?". 30 November 2016. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
They Never Said It: A Book of Fake Quotes, Misquotes, and Misleading Attributions
^ "1946 Brooklyn Dodgers Statistics". Baseball-Reference.com. Archived from the original on 13 July 2017. Retrieved 20 November 2021.
"No More Mr. Nice Guy". 12 July 2005. Archived from the original on 17 January 2013. Retrieved 28 March 2013.
"Young Women's Dating Behavior: Why/Why Not Date a Nice Guy?"
"Dating Preferences of University Women: An Analysis of the Nice Guy Stereotype"
^ Blomquist, Daniel (2 April 2014). "When nice guys are sexist with a smile". Berkeley Beacon. Archived from the original on 20 March 2015. Retrieved 9 December 2014.
Jensen-Campbell et al. (1995) operationalized "niceness" as prosocial behavior, which included agreeableness and altruism. They found that female attraction was a result of an interaction of both dominance and prosocial tendency. They suggest that altruism may be attractive to women when it is perceived as a form of agentic behavior.
^ Nice Guys Finish First, archived from the original on 20 November 2021, retrieved 20 November 2021
^ Urbaniak, Geoffrey C.; Kilmann, Peter R. (2003). "Physical Attractiveness and the "Nice Guy Paradox": Do Nice Guys Really Finish Last?". Sex Roles. 49 (9/10): 413–426. doi:10.1023/a:1025894203368. ISSN 0360-0025. S2CID 51001366. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 27 November 2021.
^ Jensen-Campbell, L. A.; Graziano, W. G.; West, S. G. (1995). "Dominance, prosocial orientation, and female preferences: Do nice guys really finish last?". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 68 (3): 427–440. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.68.3.427.
Simplistically, the term "nice guy" could be an adjectival phrase describing what appears to be a friendly, kind, or courteous man. The "nice guys finish last" phrase is also said to be coined by American biologist Garrett Hardin to sum up the selfish gene theory of life and evolution. This was disputed by Richard Dawkins, who wrote the book The Selfish Gene. Dawkins was misinterpreted by many as confirming the "nice guy finishing last" view, but refuted the claims in the BBC documentary Nice Guys Finish First.[31]
^ Botwin, M. D.; Buss, D. M.; Shackelford, T. K. (1997). "Personality and mate preferences: Five factors in mate selection and marital satisfaction". Journal of Personality. 65 (1): 107–136. doi:10.1111/j.1467-6494.1997.tb00531.x. PMID 9143146.
^ Glover, Dr. Robert, http://nomoremrniceguy.com Archived 1 December 2019 at the Wayback Machine
"Nice guy" is an informal term, commonly used with either a literal or a sarcastic meaning, for a man.
Ahmetoglu, Gorkan; Swami, Viren (1 May 2012). "Do Women Prefer "Nice Guys"? The Effect of Male Dominance Behavior on Women's Ratings of Sexual Attractiveness". Social Behavior and Personality. 40 (4): 667–672. doi:10.2224/sbp.2012.40.4.667. ISSN 0301-2212. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 27 November 2021.
The terms "Nice Guy" and "nice guy syndrome" can be used sarcastically to describe a man who views himself as a prototypical "nice guy," but whose "nice deeds" are deemed to be solely motivated by a desire to court women. From said courting, the 'nice guy' may hope to form a romantic relationship or may be motivated by a simple desire to increase his sexual activity. The results of failure are often resentment toward women and/or society. The 'nice guy' is commonly said to be put by women "into the friend zone" who do not reciprocate his romantic or sexual interest. These men believe in this motive because of the societal roles that say women belong to them. A reasoning behind this can be because women are sexualized in video games, television, and movies. Third-wave feminist interpretations tend to see this resentment as being based upon an assumption by men that they are entitled to sex and are therefore confused when they find that it is not forthcoming despite their supposed 'niceness'.[37] More male orientated interpretations claim that the resentment is down to the fact that society, and the vast majority of people in spoken conversation, claim to be attracted to traits such as honesty, integrity and kindness, when in reality more superficial considerations trigger attraction. According to this interpretation, people who display wealth, good looks, dominance, and confidence tend to succeed more in romance than do 'nice guys'. Nice guys are therefore resentful at the inconsistency between what people claim to be attracted to and by how they act in reality.[38][39] At times, these men are also known by the term "white knight".
^ "Regarding 'Nice Guys' and 'Why Women Only Date Jerks'- A Critique of a Masculine Victim-Cult". Archived from the original on 12 January 2012. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
Herold and Milhausen (1998) found that women are more likely to report wanting a nice guy but do not choose them in their real dating life. They also found that women perceived nice guys as having less sexual partners in general but perceived them as more eligible for dating. Women claim to prefer to date people who have less sexual experience [sic]. A third of the women, however, had reported dating multiple partners that had had more sexual experience than them [sic - impossible to objectively know this]. There was a dichotomist relationship between a woman’s perception of what a nice guy is and does and whether or not he “finishes last,” as the common adage states. If a woman believes that a nice guy is kind and respectful to women then they will say that he does not finish last. If the nice guy is perceived as being passive or unattractive then they will say that he does finish last.[14]
^ a b c d e .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}McDaniel, A. K. (2005). "Young Women's Dating Behavior: Why/Why Not Date a Nice Guy?". Sex Roles. 53 (5–6): 347–359. doi:10.1007/s11199-005-6758-z. S2CID 51946327.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}McDaniel, A. K. (2005). "Young Women's Dating Behavior: Why/Why Not Date a Nice Guy?". Sex Roles. 53 (5–6): 347–359. doi:10.1007/s11199-005-6758-z. S2CID 51946327.
In their qualitative analysis, Herold and Milhausen[7] found that women associate different qualities with the "nice guy" label: "Some women offered flattering interpretations of the 'nice guy', characterizing him as committed, caring, and respectful of women. Some women, however, emphasized more negative aspects, considering the 'nice guy' to be boring, lacking confidence, and unattractive."[8] The "bad boys" were also divided into two categories, "as either confident, attractive, sexy, and exciting or as manipulative, unfaithful, disrespectful of women, and interested only in sex." This distinction helped further the understanding of why women might prefer "nice guys" or "not-nice guys". Women were also asked for their preferences and what values they may look in each relationship, such as attractiveness, and sexual desires in short- and long-term relationships.[further explanation needed][8]
^ ""Nice guys finish last" - phrase meaning and origin". phrases.org.uk. Archived from the original on 12 March 2018. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
^ a b Herold, Edward S.; Milhausen, Robin R. (1999). "Dating preferences of university women: an analysis of the nice guy stereotype". Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy. 25 (4): 333–343. doi:10.1080/00926239908404010. ISSN 0092-623X. PMID 10546171.
^ Bogaert, A. F.; Fisher, W. A. (1995). "Predictors of university men's number of sexual partners". Journal of Sex Research. 32 (2): 119–130. doi:10.1080/00224499509551782. JSTOR 3812964.
"Do women prefer "nice guys"? The effect of male dominance behavior on women's ratings of sexual attractiveness"
Urbaniak, Geoffrey C.; Kilmann, Peter R. (1 November 2003). "Physical Attractiveness and the "Nice Guy Paradox": Do Nice Guys Really Finish Last?". Sex Roles. 49 (9): 413–426. doi:10.1023/A:1025894203368. ISSN 1573-2762. S2CID 51001366. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 20 November 2021.
^ "Do 27% of Europeans say rape may be acceptable in some circumstances?". 30 November 2016. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
^ Boller, Paul F. Jr.; George, John (1989). They Never Said It: A Book of Fake Quotes, Misquotes, and Misleading Attributions. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-505541-2.
^ a b c Urbaniak, G. C.; Kilmann, P. R. (2003). "Physical attractiveness and the 'nice guy paradox:' Do nice guys really finish last". Sex Roles. 49 (9–10): 413–426. doi:10.1023/A:1025894203368. S2CID 51001366.
^ Barclay, P (2010). "Altruism as a courtship display: some effects of third-party generosity on audience perceptions". British Journal of Psychology. 101 (Pt 1): 123–135. doi:10.1348/000712609x435733. PMID 19397845.
^ Reynolds, Matt (7 August 2005). "Why women cheat / Birds stray the nest and so do many of our human females". The San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on 3 January 2007. Retrieved 26 May 2008.
Urbaniak, Geoffrey C.; Kilmann, Peter R. (2003). "Physical Attractiveness and the "Nice Guy Paradox": Do Nice Guys Really Finish Last?". Sex Roles. 49 (9/10): 413–426. doi:10.1023/a:1025894203368. ISSN 0360-0025. S2CID 51001366. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 27 November 2021.
The Yale Book of Quotations, Fred R. Shapiro, Yale University Press, 2006, p. 221 Archived 11 May 2020 at the Wayback Machine
Barclay (2010) found that when all other factors are held constant, guys who perform generous acts are rated as more desirable for dates and long-term relationships than non-generous guys. This study used a series of matched descriptions where each male was presented in a generous or a control version which differed only in whether the man tended to help others. The author suggests that niceness itself is desirable to women, but tends to be used by men who are less attractive in other domains, and this is what creates the appearance of "nice guys finish last."[19]
A 2008 study at New Mexico State University in Las Cruces showed that "nice guys" report having significantly fewer sexual partners than "bad boys."[17][18]
^ a b Herold, E. S.; Milhausen, R. (1999). "Dating preferences of university women: An analysis of the nice guy stereotype". Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy. 25 (4): 333–343. doi:10.1080/00926239908404010. PMID 10546171.
^ Whittaker, Jason (2004). The cyberspace handbook. Routledge. pp. 186–187. ISBN 978-0-415-16835-9. Archived from the original on 5 January 2014. Retrieved 21 November 2009.
"Dating preferences of university women: An analysis of the nice guy stereotype"
Herold, Edward S.; Milhausen, Robin R. (1 October 1999). "Dating preferences of university women: An analysis of the nice guy stereotype". Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy. 25 (4): 333–343. doi:10.1080/00926239908404010. ISSN 0092-623X. PMID 10546171. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 20 November 2021.
^ Desrochers, Stephan (1995). "What types of men are most attractive and most repulsive to women". Sex Roles. 32 (5–6): 375–391. doi:10.1007/BF01544603. S2CID 143785303.
"Regarding 'Nice Guys' and 'Why Women Only Date Jerks'- A Critique of a Masculine Victim-Cult". Archived from the original on 12 January 2012. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
Sprecher & Regan, S., P. C. (2002). "Liking some things (in some people) more than others: Partner preferences in romantic relationships and friendships". Journal of Social and Personal Relationships. 1 (19): 463–481. doi:10.1177/0265407502019004048. S2CID 55902623.
^ Dasgupta, Rivu. "The Friend Zone is Sexist". The Maneater. Archived from the original on 5 December 2014. Retrieved 1 November 2014.
^ Judge, Timothy A.; Livingston, Beth A.; Hurst, Charlice, "Do nice guys—and gals—really finish last? The joint effects of sex and agreeableness on income", Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 28 November 2011 (abstract Archived 6 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine | full text Archived 15 December 2011 at the Wayback Machine )
Sprecher and Regan (2002) found kindness, warmth, expressiveness, openness, and humor as desirable traits of a long-term partner. Social status indicators, such as future earning potential (wealth), were not viewed as more desirable traits when compared to the previous traits. Participants suggested they wanted more humor, expressiveness and warmth from their partner than is expressed with their friends.[13]
Sadalla, Kenrick, and Vershure (1985) found that women were sexually attracted to dominance in men (though dominance did not make men likable to women), and that dominance in women had no effect on men. This may further suggest that the nice guy myth is one of sexual preference, and not of dating preference. Women appear in practically all studies to be accepting of romantic relationships with nice guys but are less likely to consider them casual sexual partners.
Botwin, Buss and Shackelford (1997) found that women had a higher preference for surgency and dominance in their mates than men did, in a study of dating couples and newlyweds.[23]
"Dating preferences of university women: an analysis of the nice guy stereotype"
Nice guys are usually seen as twice as attractive as men who present themselves as neutral, and eight times more attractive than the "jerks" in a dating profile. Social dominance enhances female attraction to a male who has shown in the relationship niceness, traits of kindness and warmth stated by women looking for long-term relationships, and less status and physical attractiveness.[12]
"Although women often portray themselves as wanting to date kind, sensitive, and emotionally expressive men, the nice guy stereotype contends that, when actually presented with a choice between such a 'nice guy' and an unkind, insensitive, emotionally-closed, 'macho man' or 'jerk,' they invariably reject the nice guy in favor of his 'so-called' macho competitor."[10]
"Do Women Prefer "Nice Guys"? The Effect of Male Dominance Behavior on Women's Ratings of Sexual Attractiveness"
Herold and Milhausen claim: "While 'nice guys' may not be competitive in terms of numbers of sexual partners, they tend to be more successful with respect to longer-term, committed relationships." This is due to the ‘nice guys’ generally denote an interest in long-term relationships rather than the concept that a ‘jerk’ is only around to have sexual partners and will move on sooner for their lack of interest in long-term relationships.[34]
^ Sadalla, E. K.; Kenrick, D. T.; Venshure, B. (1987). "Dominance and heterosexual attraction". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 52 (4): 730–738. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.466.7042. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.52.4.730.
"What romantic comedies can teach us about ourselves – Feministe". feministe.us. Archived from the original on 26 November 2011. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
"The alt-right is recruiting depressed people". Archived from the original on 27 March 2018. Retrieved 26 March 2018.
"Why women cheat / Birds stray the nest and so do many of our human females"
Nice guys are sometimes suggested to be overbearing or lacking in vision and ambitions; these opinions suggest self-confidence as a key point and area of improvement. Often these ideas and views of a certain nice guy can contribute to a woman's willingness to pursue a romantic relationship.[9]
^ DiDonato PhD, Theresa. E. "Do Nice Guys Really Finish Last?". psychologytoday. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 30 April 2019.
A common aphorism is that "nice guys finish last."[10] The phrase is based on a quote by Brooklyn Dodgers manager Leo Durocher in 1946, which was then condensed by journalists.[25][26] The original quote by Durocher was, "The nice guys are all over there, in seventh place" (6 July 1946),[25][27] when referring to the 1946 New York Giants, who were the Dodger's rivals. The seventh place that Durocher was referring to was actually second-to-last place in the National League; many variants appear in later works,[28] including Durocher's autobiography, Nice Guys Finish Last.[29] The Giants would finish the 1946 season in the National League cellar, while Durocher's Dodgers would end up in second place.[30]
However, the term is also often used sarcastically, particularly in the context of dating,[1] to describe someone who believes himself to possess genuine "nice guy" characteristics, even though he actually does not, and who uses acts of friendship and basic social etiquette with the ulterior aim of progressing to a romantic or sexual relationship.[5][6] This is sometimes referred to as "Nice Guy Syndrome", which is used to describe a sense of entitlement to sexual or romantic attention from women simply for being "nice", and irrational anger when that attention is not forthcoming.
In the literal sense, the term describes a man who is agreeable, gentle, compassionate, sensitive and vulnerable.[1] The term is used both positively and negatively.[2] When used positively, and particularly when used as a preference or description by someone else, it is intended to imply a man who puts the needs of others before his own, avoids confrontations, does favors, provides emotional support, tries to stay out of trouble, and generally acts nicely towards others.[3] In the context of a relationship, it may also refer to traits of honesty, loyalty, romanticism, courtesy, and respect.
Dasgupta, Rivu. "The Friend Zone is Sexist". The Maneater. Archived from the original on 5 December 2014. Retrieved 1 November 2014.
Urbaniak and Killman (2003) constructed vignettes of four hypothetical dating show contestants: "Nice Todd" vs. "Neutral Todd" vs. "Jerk Todd" vs. "Michael", who was created to be a control. "Nice Todd" described a "real man" as "in touch with his feelings," kind and attentive, non-macho, and interested in putting his partner's pleasure first. "Neutral Todd" described a "real man" as someone who "knows what he wants and knows how to get it," and who is good to the woman he loves. "Jerk Todd" described a "real man" as someone who "knows what he wants and knows how to get it," who keeps everyone else on their toes, and avoids "touch-feely" stuff. "Michael" described a "real man" as relaxed and positive. In two studies, Urbaniak and Kilmann found that women claimed to prefer "Nice Todd" over "Neutral Todd" and "Jerk Todd," relative to "Michael" even at differing levels of physical attractiveness. They also found that for purely sexual relationships, "niceness appeared relatively less influential than physical attractiveness." After acknowledging that women's preference for "niceness" could be inflated by the social desirability bias, especially due to their use of verbal scripts, they conclude that "our overall results did not favor the nice guy stereotype; instead, our results suggested that women’s attitudes (as expressed in previous studies) do, in fact, generally match their behaviors. Niceness was a robust, positive factor in women’s choices of a dating partner and in how desirable they rated Todd."[15]
Inman, Mason (18 June 2008). "Bad guys really do get the most girls". New Scientist. Archived from the original on 2 May 2015. Retrieved 6 September 2017.
Whittaker, Jason (2004). The cyberspace handbook. Routledge. pp. 186–187. ISBN 978-0-415-16835-9. Archived from the original on 5 January 2014. Retrieved 21 November 2009.
"Why Nice Guys Finish Last". ABC News. 19 June 2008. Archived from the original on 17 May 2020. Retrieved 28 June 2020.
Another perspective is that women do want "nice guys," at least when they are looking for a romantic relationship. Desrochers (1995) suggests that "it still seems popular to believe that women in contemporary America prefer men who are 'sensitive,' or have feminine personality traits." In a study done by Ahmetoglu and Swami (2012) it was found that women were more sexually attracted to men who had more dominant behaviors compared to men who were more closed off.[33]
Bogaert, A. F.; Fisher, W. A. (1995). "Predictors of university men's number of sexual partners". Journal of Sex Research. 32 (2): 119–130. doi:10.1080/00224499509551782. JSTOR 3812964.
Herold and Milhausen[34] found that 56% of 165 university women claimed to agree with the statement: "You may have heard the expression, 'Nice guys finish last.' In terms of dating, and sex, do you think women are less likely to have sex with men who are 'nice' than men who are 'not nice'?" A third view is that while "nice guys" may not be as successful at attracting women sexually, they may be sought after by women looking for long-term romantic relationships (however, "nice guys need not lose all hope, with studies showing that while women like 'bad boys' for flings, they tend to settle down with more caring types." The "bad boys" tending to exhibit the dark triad, i.e., "the self-obsession of narcissism, the impulsive, thrill-seeking and callous behavior of the psychopath and the deceitful and exploitative nature of Machiavellianism." It is a possibility that women leave to escape their circumstances of abuse, disease, or pregnancy to seek a chance with the nice guy (they rejected previously), afterwards.[35]
Blomquist, Daniel (2 April 2014). "When nice guys are sexist with a smile". Berkeley Beacon. Archived from the original on 20 March 2015. Retrieved 9 December 2014.
Desrochers, Stephan (1995). "What types of men are most attractive and most repulsive to women". Sex Roles. 32 (5–6): 375–391. doi:10.1007/BF01544603. S2CID 143785303.
Reynolds, Matt (7 August 2005). "Why women cheat / Birds stray the nest and so do many of our human females". The San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on 3 January 2007. Retrieved 26 May 2008.
McDaniel, Anita K. (September 2005). "Young Women's Dating Behavior: Why/Why Not Date a Nice Guy?". Sex Roles. 53 (5–6): 347–359. doi:10.1007/s11199-005-6758-z. ISSN 0360-0025. S2CID 51946327. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 20 November 2021.
Another study indicates that "for brief affairs, women tend to prefer a dominating, powerful and promiscuous man." Further evidence appears in a 2005 study in Prague: "Since women can always get a man for a one-night stand, they gain an advantage if they find partners for child-rearing."[36]
Urbaniak, G. C.; Kilmann, P. R. (2003). "Physical attractiveness and the 'nice guy paradox:' Do nice guys really finish last". Sex Roles. 49 (9–10): 413–426. doi:10.1023/A:1025894203368. S2CID 51001366.
^ Ahmetoglu, Gorkan; Swami, Viren (1 May 2012). "Do Women Prefer "Nice Guys"? The Effect of Male Dominance Behavior on Women's Ratings of Sexual Attractiveness". Social Behavior and Personality. 40 (4): 667–672. doi:10.2224/sbp.2012.40.4.667. ISSN 0301-2212. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 27 November 2021.
2Other viewpoints											Toggle Other viewpoints subsection																					2.1The "nice guys finish last" view																											2.2"Nice Guy" syndrome
Judge et al (2011) concluded that "Nice guys do not necessarily finish last, but they do finish a distant second in terms of earnings ... yet, seen from the perspective of gender equity, even the nice guys seem to be making out quite well relative to either agreeable or disagreeable women."[20]
""Nice guys finish last" - phrase meaning and origin". phrases.org.uk. Archived from the original on 12 March 2018. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
Nice Guys Finish Last, by Leo Durocher, with Ed Linn, Simon & Schuster, 1975, renders it as "Take a look at them. All nice guys. They’ll finish last. Nice guys – finish last."
DiDonato PhD, Theresa. E. "Do Nice Guys Really Finish Last?". psychologytoday. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 30 April 2019.
The "nice guys finish last" view in relationships is that there is a discrepancy between women's stated preferences and their actual choices in men. In other words, women say that they want nice guys, but really go for men who are "jerks" or "bad boys" in the end. This may lead to men’s discouragement in attempting to have casual sexual relationships with women and also in their pursuit of romantic relationships. Stephan Desrochers claims, in a 1995 article in the journal Sex Roles, that many "sensitive" men, based on their own personal experience, do not believe women actually want "nice guys." Because of this belief, men are less likely to pursue a romantic relationship with a woman if they perceive themselves as nice guys. If they do not believe that women will be sexually or romantically attracted to them because of their more feminine or “nice” traits, then they will likely be concerned, possibly another trait that leads to women’s preference for jerks. In other words, men who are more confident and worry less if they are being perceived a certain way are more likely to have a romantic or casual sexual relationship with a woman of their choice.[32]
Bogaert and Fisher (1995) studied the relationships between the personalities of university men and their number of sexual partners. They found a correlation between a man's number of sexual partners, and the traits of sensation-seeking, hypermasculinity, physical attractiveness, and testosterone levels. They also discovered a correlation between maximum monthly number of partners, and the traits of dominance and psychoticism. Bogaert and Fisher suggest that an underlying construct labelled "disinhibition" could be used to explain most of these differences. They suggest that disinhibition would correlate negatively with "agreeableness" and "conscientiousness" from the Big Five personality model.[22]
^ a b Herold, Edward S.; Milhausen, Robin R. (1 October 1999). "Dating preferences of university women: An analysis of the nice guy stereotype". Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy. 25 (4): 333–343. doi:10.1080/00926239908404010. ISSN 0092-623X. PMID 10546171. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 20 November 2021.
^ McDaniel, Anita K. (September 2005). "Young Women's Dating Behavior: Why/Why Not Date a Nice Guy?". Sex Roles. 53 (5–6): 347–359. doi:10.1007/s11199-005-6758-z. ISSN 0360-0025. S2CID 51946327. Archived from the original on 6 September 2022. Retrieved 20 November 2021.
^ Sprecher & Regan, S., P. C. (2002). "Liking some things (in some people) more than others: Partner preferences in romantic relationships and friendships". Journal of Social and Personal Relationships. 1 (19): 463–481. doi:10.1177/0265407502019004048. S2CID 55902623.
^ "The alt-right is recruiting depressed people". Archived from the original on 27 March 2018. Retrieved 26 March 2018.
"Do 27% of Europeans say rape may be acceptable in some circumstances?"
^ Ahmetoglu, G.; Swami, V. (2012). "Do women prefer "nice guys"? The effect of male dominance behavior on women's ratings of sexual attractiveness". Social Behavior and Personality. 40 (4): 667–672. doi:10.2224/sbp.2012.40.4.667. ISSN 0301-2212. Archived from the original on 21 January 2022. Retrieved 21 January 2022.
Barclay, P (2010). "Altruism as a courtship display: some effects of third-party generosity on audience perceptions". British Journal of Psychology. 101 (Pt 1): 123–135. doi:10.1348/000712609x435733. PMID 19397845.
Herold, E. S.; Milhausen, R. (1999). "Dating preferences of university women: An analysis of the nice guy stereotype". Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy. 25 (4): 333–343. doi:10.1080/00926239908404010. PMID 10546171.
^ Herold, E. S.; Milhausen, R. R. (October 1999). "Dating preferences of university women: an analysis of the nice guy stereotype". Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy. 25 (4): 333–343. doi:10.1080/00926239908404010. ISSN 0092-623X. PMID 10546171. Archived from the original on 20 November 2021. Retrieved 20 November 2021.
Researchers have therefore operationalized the "nice guy" and "jerk" constructs in different ways, some of which are outlined below.[1]
Judge, Timothy A.; Livingston, Beth A.; Hurst, Charlice, "Do nice guys—and gals—really finish last? The joint effects of sex and agreeableness on income", Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 28 November 2011 (abstract Archived 6 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine | full text Archived 15 December 2011 at the Wayback Machine )
McDaniel, A. K. (2005). Young Women’s Dating Behavior: Why/Why Not Date a Nice Guy? Sex Roles, 53(5/6), 347–359. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11199-005-6758-z
1630 – Officers of the Civic Guard of St Adrian (Frans Halsmuseum, Haarlem)
Biography and Images of Works at the Web Gallery or Art – www.wga.hu
National Portrait Gallery – Portrait – NPG 3790; Sir Robert Phelips. Npg.org.uk. Retrieved on 2012-12-13.
Pot was born in Amsterdam and spent his early years in Amsterdam and Haarlem.In 1632 he traveled to London, where he painted the Royal Family.He lived from 1633 to 1648 in Haarlem, after which he moved to Amsterdam, where he died in 1657.[1] He served as Dean of the Haarlem Guild of St. Luke in 1626, 1630 and 1635.He served as the Guild's headman or Hoofdman in 1634 and 1648.He died in Amsterdam.
1630 – A Merry Company at Table (National Gallery, London)[2]
^ National Portrait Gallery – Portrait – NPG 3790; Sir Robert Phelips. Npg.org.uk. Retrieved on 2012-12-13.
Hendrick Pot | A Merry Company at Table | NG1278 | The National Gallery, London Archived 2007-09-29 at the Wayback Machine. Nationalgallery.org.uk. Retrieved on 2012-12-13.
The Officers of the St Adrian Militia Company in 1630
1632 – Charles I, Henrietta Maria and the Prince of Wales (The Royal Collection, London)
1633 – Allegory of Vanitas or Vanity (Frans Hals Museum, Haarlem)[5]
Pot was commissioned in London to paint portraits of King Charles I and Queen Henrietta Maria in 1632; the results now hang in the Royal Collection in London.
The latter piece also contains a common theme addressed in Pot’s works; beauty, age and death. This theme culminates in his well-known piece Allegory of Vanitas, usually referred to simply as Vanity, and which also contains motifs and symbols of sensual love. Other well-known Pot works are A Startling Introduction, The Coin Collector and Flora’s Wagon of Fools (shown), in which he poked fun at the fledgling tulip trade in Haarlem, where for a short while, the flower bulbs were sold by weight.
^ Hendrick Pot | A Merry Company at Table | NG1278 | The National Gallery, London Archived 2007-09-29 at the Wayback Machine. Nationalgallery.org.uk. Retrieved on 2012-12-13.
National Portrait Gallery – Portrait – NPG 3790; Sir Robert Phelips
Pot’s type of genre scenes became known as "Merry Company" genre paintings. This included his 1635 piece, Portrait of a Young Woman, and a companion piece, now lost, as well as his 1630 piece, A Merry Company at Table. Both these paintings contain several objects considered sensual symbolism. A Merry Company at Table was set in a brothel, a popular theme in Dutch genre painting.
1635–1640 – Woman Seated at a Table (Vanitas) (Museum of Fine Arts, Boston)
1655 – The Coin Collector (Indianapolis Museum of Art, Indianapolis)[8]
Hendrik Gerritsz Pot (c. 1580 – 15 October 1657 (buried)) was a Dutch Golden Age painter, who lived and painted in Haarlem, where he was an officer of the militia, or schutterij.Dutch artist Frans Hals painted Pot in militia sash in Hals' The Officers of the St Adrian Militia Company in 1633. Pot is the man reading a book on the far right.
1650 – The Painter in his Studio (Gemeente Musea, Delft)
This page was last edited on 1 May 2022, at 03:36 (UTC).
His more standard, though still stylish, portrait works include his Portrait of Sir Robert Phelips and his works of the King and Queen of England.
1637 – Flora's Wagon of Fools (Frans Hals Museum, Haarlem)[7]
1635 – Portrait of a Young Woman (Liechtenstein Museum, Vienna)[6]
The Officers of the St Adrian Militia Company in 1633
Hendrick Pot | A Merry Company at Table | NG1278 | The National Gallery, London
1632 – Portrait of Sir Robert Phelips (National Portrait Gallery, London)[4]
Media related to Paintings by Hendrik Gerritsz. Pot at Wikimedia Commons Media related to Hendrik Gerritsz. Pot at Wikimedia Commons
Pot was probably a pupil of Karel van Mander, as was Hals, and they influenced each other. Pot’s paintings were sometimes allegorical in subject and he also painted group schutterstuk portraits, such as The Officers of the St Adrian Militia Company in 1630. He was also influenced by painter and engraver Willem Buytewech.
1639 – Admiral Maarten Harpertz Tromp (Museum voor Schone Kunsten Gent, Antwerp)
This page was last edited on 13 January 2023, at 16:40 (UTC).
The Parable of the Rich Foolis a parable of Jesus which appears in The Gospel of Luke. It depicts the futility of the belief that wealth can secure prosperity or a good life.
"The psalmist's repose is not the worldling's serenity nor the sensualist's security, but the repose of the quiet conscience and the trusting heart".[7]
Cornelius a Lapide in his great commentary explains the parable, writing,
Arland J. Hultgren, The Parables of Jesus: A Commentary, Eerdmans, 2002, ISBN 0-8028-6077-X, pp. 104-109.
One of the multitude said to him, "Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me."But he said to him, "Man, who made me a judge or an arbitrator over you?" He said to them, "Beware! Keep yourselves from covetousness, for a man's life doesn't consist of the abundance of the things which he possesses."
Media related to Parable of the Rich Man at Wikimedia Commons
The rich farmer in this parable is portrayed negatively, as an example of greed.[1] By replacing his existing barn, he avoids using agricultural land for storage purposes, thus maximising his income, as well as allowing him to wait for a price increase before selling.[1] St. Augustine comments that the farmer was "planning to fill his soul with excessive and unnecessary feasting and was proudly disregarding all those empty bellies of the poor. He did not realize that the bellies of the poor were much safer storerooms than his barns."[3]
Ellicott's Commentary notes the difference between the fool's approach and the psalmist's:
^ Arthur A. Just, Luke, InterVarsity Press, 2003, ISBN 0-8308-1488-4, p. 208.
The farmer's foolishness lies particularly in the fact that wealth cannot guarantee the future: the Day of Judgment arrives sooner than he expects.[5]
This parable has been depicted by several artists, including Rembrandt, Jan Luyken, James Tissot, and David Teniers the Younger.
MacEvilly, Rev. John (1898). An Exposition of the Gospels. New York: Benziger Brothers.
John McEvilly comments on the second part, writing "The rich man thus pondered secretly in his own mind; for, “he thought within himself” (v. 17). But, his thoughts were heard and examined in Heaven, which is not slow in pronouncing judgment on him. “But God said to him,” either by some secret inspiration, or some sudden mortal stroke, sending him a mortal disease, which was taking him out of life and thus showing his folly; or by an angel, “thou fool,” while thou hast not a day which thou canst call thine own, thou promisest thyself many years, on which all thy calculations of long happiness are based. Such is the judgment, not of man, but of Divine wisdom regarding him, and, indeed, it is not difficult even for man, enlightened by faith, to pronounce the same."[9]
Arland J. Hultgren comments that the parable "provides an example of what one ought not to be like. The person whose identity is tied up with his or her possessions, status, and/or achievements—and is driven by acquiring them—can so easily end up unaware of the call of God and the need of the neighbor."[4] The farmer's conversation with himself is self-centred: first-person pronouns occur 11 times.[4]
Arthur A. Just, Luke, InterVarsity Press, 2003, ISBN 0-8308-1488-4, p. 208.
An abbreviated version of this parable also appears in the non-canonical Gospel of Thomas (Saying 63).[2]
The parable is introduced by a member of the crowd listening to Jesus, who tries to enlist Jesus' help in a family financial dispute:[1]
Joel B. Green, The Gospel of Luke, Eerdmans, 1997, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 0-8028-2315-7, pp. 487–491.
He spoke a parable to them, saying, "The ground of a certain rich man brought forth abundantly. He reasoned within himself, saying, 'What will I do, because I don't have room to store my crops?' He said, 'This is what I will do. I will pull down my barns, and build bigger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods. I will tell my soul, "Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, be merry."'"But God said to him, 'You foolish one, tonight your soul is required of you. The things which you have prepared—whose will they be?' So is he who lays up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God."
^ a b c Joel B. Green, The Gospel of Luke, Eerdmans, 1997, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 0-8028-2315-7, pp. 487–491.
Lapide, Cornelius (1889). The great commentary of Cornelius à Lapide. Translated by Thomas Wimberly Mossman. London: John Hodges.
^ a b Arland J. Hultgren, The Parables of Jesus: A Commentary, Eerdmans, 2002, ISBN 0-8028-6077-X, pp. 104-109.
^ John Clifford Purdy, Parables at Work, Westminster John Knox Press, 1986, ISBN 0-664-24640-0, pp. 41-43.
John Clifford Purdy, Parables at Work, Westminster John Knox Press, 1986, ISBN 0-664-24640-0, pp. 41-43.
^ Lapide, Cornelius (1889). The great commentary of Cornelius à Lapide. Translated by Thomas Wimberly Mossman. London: John Hodges.
Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the LORD hath dealt bountifully with thee.[6]
The meaning is, This is a matter of the courts which dispose of secular questions: it has no part in Me, who teach and dispense a heavenly heritage. Christ does not here deny that He has judicial power, for He was the King of kings and the Lord of lords; but He wished to use His power over a covetous man to cure him of his greed, and to teach him to prefer heavenly to earthly things, and to give way willingly to them, according to His own words, 6:29, “From him that takes away thy cloak withhold not thy coat also.” “He rightly sets aside earthly things,” says S. Ambrose, “who came down to us for heavenly ones. Hence this brother is rebuked not undeservedly, for he would fain have occupied the dispenser of heavenly things with those of earth.” At the same time He taught that ecclesiastics and spiritual persons ought not to meddle with secular things, but to employ themselves in divine ones, as St. Paul says, 2 Tim 2:4, "No soldier on service entangleth himself in the affairs of this life."[8]
^ MacEvilly, Rev. John (1898). An Exposition of the Gospels. New York: Benziger Brothers.
^ Ellicott's Commentary on Psalm 116, accessed 20 June 2018
Frans Francken contributed to the development of the genre of the 'monkey scene', also called 'singerie' (a word, which in French means a 'comical grimace, behaviour or trick').[11] Comical scenes with monkeys appearing in human attire and a human environment are a pictorial genre that was initiated in Flemish painting in the 16th century and was subsequently further developed in the 17th century.
Francken was particularly skilled in painting the human figure, a fact which is confirmed on some of the portraits of the artist that were etched by Anthony van Dyck and carry the Latin inscription: 'ANTVERIÆ PICTOR HVMANARVM FIGVRARVM' (Figure painter of Antwerp).[8] He was frequently invited to contribute figures in compositions by other artists, such as the landscape artists Tobias Verhaecht, Abraham Govaerts and Joos de Momper, the architectural painters Pieter Neeffs the Elder, Pieter Neeffs the Younger, Hendrik van Steenwijk I, Paul Vredeman de Vries and Bartholomeus van Bassen and flower painters such as Jan Brueghel the Elder and Andries Daniels.[2]
^ Franks Francken III, in: Walter A. Liedtke, Flemish Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, 1984, p. 98
^ Frans Francken II, Witches' Sabbath Archived 3 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine at the Victoria and Albert Museum
^ Anthony van Dyck, Portrait of Frans Francken II (6th state) Archived 2 December 2016 at the Wayback Machine at the Fitzwilliam Museum
^ a b c d e Ursula Härting. "Francken." Grove Art Online. Oxford Art Online. Oxford University Press. Web. 27 February 2014
Sensationsergebnis im Dorotheum - Weltrekord mit 7,02 Mio Euro für Frans Francken II bei der Auktion Alte Meister, Teuerstes jemals in Österreich versteigertes Gemälde Archived 4 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine at Dorotheum (in German)
Susan Merriam, Seventeenth-Century Flemish Garland Paintings. Still Life, Vision and the Devotional Image, Ashgate Publishing, Ltd., 2012
Carl Van de Velde and James Snyder. "Mostaert: (2) Gillis Mostaert", Grove Art Online. Oxford Art Online. Oxford University Press. Web. 23 March 2015
^ Allegory on the Abdication of Emperor Charles V in Brussels at the Rijksmuseum (in Dutch)
Marr, Alexander (2010) 'The Flemish 'Pictures of Collections' Genre: An Overview', Intellectual History Review, 20: 1, 5–25
Frans Francken often collaborated with still life specialists such as Andries Daniels, Jan Brueghel the Elder and Younger and Philips de Marlier in the production of garland paintings.Garland paintings are a special type of still life developed in Antwerp by artists such as Jan Brueghel the Elder, Hendrick van Balen, Andries Daniels, Peter Paul Rubens and Daniel Seghers. They typically show a flower garland around a devotional image or portrait.This genre was inspired by the cult of veneration and devotion to Mary prevalent at the Habsburg court (then the rulers over the Southern Netherlands) and in Antwerp generally.
Ursula Härting. "Francken." Grove Art Online. Oxford Art Online. Oxford University Press. Web. 27 February 2014
Frans Francken II in: Frans Jozef Peter Van den Branden, Geschiedenis der Antwerpsche schilderschool, Antwerpen, 1883, pp. 1615–1619 (in Dutch)
Frans Francken (II) at the Netherlands Institute for Art History (in Dutch)
Media related to Frans Francken the Younger at Wikimedia Commons
The paintings are heavy with symbolism and allegory and are a reflection of the intellectual preoccupations of the age, including the cultivation of personal virtue and the importance of connoisseurship.[14] The genre became immediately quite popular and was followed by other artists such as Jan Brueghel the Younger, Cornelis de Baellieur, Hans Jordaens, David Teniers the Younger, Gillis van Tilborch and Hieronymus Janssens.
^ Carl Van de Velde and James Snyder. "Mostaert: (2) Gillis Mostaert", Grove Art Online. Oxford Art Online. Oxford University Press. Web. 23 March 2015
^ Sensationsergebnis im Dorotheum - Weltrekord mit 7,02 Mio Euro für Frans Francken II bei der Auktion Alte Meister, Teuerstes jemals in Österreich versteigertes Gemälde Archived 4 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine at Dorotheum (in German)
Franks Francken III, in: Walter A. Liedtke, Flemish Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, 1984, p. 98
Frans Francken the Younger was a versatile artist who practised in many genres and introduced new subjects into Flemish art.Many of his works are small historical, allegorical and biblical cabinet paintings with the focus on figures. He also invented or popularized several new themes that became popular in Flemish painting, such as genre scenes populated by monkeys (also referred to as singeries) and Kunstkammer or gallery paintings displaying a wealth of natural and artistic treasures against a neutral wall. Frans Francken the Younger introduced many other unusual themes that later became popular, such as the 'Triumphal Procession of Amphitrite' and 'Croesus and Solon'.[2] Francken also made a series of paintings depicting witches and witchcraft, including portrayals of witches' sabbats.[6]
Anthony van Dyck, Portrait of Frans Francken II (6th state)
Thomas Christensen, 1616: The World in Motion, Counterpoint Press, 2012, p. 234
Martha Hollander, An Entrance for the Eyes: Space and Meaning in Seventeenth-century Dutch Art, University of California Press, 2002, p. 35.
On 8 November 1607 Francken married Elisabeth Plaquet 'with the special permission of the bishop'.This may have had something to do with the fact that their firstborn son was born before the end of 1607. The son was given the same name as his father and grandfather.He would be known as Frans III and as an artist he earned himself later the nickname the Rubense Francken (the Rubensian Francken).Three further boys and five girls were born to the Francken couple.One of them, Hieronymus, would also become a painter.[4]
A large portion of the output of Frans Francken the Younger consisted of allegorical paintings.An example is the Allegory on the Abdication of Emperor Charles V in Brussels (Rijksmuseum).The composition is an allegorical representation of the abdication of Emperor Charles V in Brussels. Charles V who is dividing his empire after a life of continuous warfare and ill health is seated on his throne flanked by his successors Ferdinand I and Philip II. In front of Philip the personifications of the territories of the Empire with their banners are kneeling down. In the foreground the personifications of the continents America, Africa, Europe and Asia are offering gifts.On the left Neptune is riding his seahorse-drawn triumphal chariot, accompanied by mermen, mermaids and tritons. On the chariot are visible a globe and the two columns with a banderole inscribed with Plus Ultra.[9]
^ Frans Francken the Younger at the J. Paul Getty Museum
Garland paintings were usually collaborations between a still life and a figure painter.In his collaborations on garland paintings Francken would paint the central figure or representation while the still life painter would create the garland.Together with Andries Daniels, Frans Francken further developed the genre of garland paintings, creating many special forms, among them garlands around medallions with the decades of the rosary.[13]
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
His paintings are held by most major museums in Europe.[2]
^ Bert Schepers, Monkey Madness in Seventeenth-Century Antwerp, in: The Rubenianum Quarterly, 2012 2, p. 5
2Work											Toggle Work subsection																					2.1General																											2.2Collaborations																											2.3Allegorical paintings																											2.4Singeries																											2.5Gallery paintings																											2.6Garland paintings																											2.7Religious works
^ Thomas Christensen, 1616: The World in Motion, Counterpoint Press, 2012, p. 234
This page was last edited on 9 March 2023, at 13:20 (UTC).
An example of one of these works is The story of the prodigal son (Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam).The panel shows various scenes from the Parable of the Prodigal Son from the Christian bible. The parable recounts the story of a father with two sons. The younger son asks for his inheritance and after wasting his fortune (the word "prodigal" means "wastefully extravagant"), becomes destitute and has to live in squalor. He returns home with the intention of begging his father to make him one of his hired servants.His father welcomes him back and celebrates his return but the older son refuses to participate.In the centre of the composition Francken depicts the scene of the prodigal son during his wild, high-living days in which he squandered his inheritance.Surrounding this central scene are depicted other scenes of the story in smaller scale and in grisaille.
Frans Francken II, Witches' Sabbath Archived 3 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine at the Victoria and Albert Museum
Later in his life Francken also painted large altarpieces.In these works he remained immune to the influence of Rubens, who had such a strong appeal on Flemish artists of that time.His religious works are more indebted to the work of his father.[4]
Bert Schepers, Monkey Madness in Seventeenth-Century Antwerp, in: The Rubenianum Quarterly, 2012 2, p. 5
Frans Francken the Younger signed his works with 'de jonge Frans Francken' ('the young Frans Francken') before the death of his father in 1616.From the late 1620s he used the signature 'de oude Fr. Francken' ('the old Fr. Francken'), to distinguish himself from his son Frans III.[7] His father had also started signing his paintings with 'den oude Frans Francken' ('the old Frans Francken') after Frans Francken the Younger had become active as an artist.[4]
Frans Francken the Younger likely first worked in the family workshop before he became an independent master in the Antwerp Guild of Saint Luke in 1605. He was deacon of the Guild in 1616.[2] Francken's talent was recognised from an early age.[4] He became a very successful artist and operated a large workshop which made many copies of his original compositions.[5] Already in 1607 he was able to buy a house in the city centre where he established his residence and workshop.
Frans Francken the Younger and Jan Brueghel the Elder were the first artists to create paintings of art and curiosity collections in the 1620s, such as A Cabinet of Curiosities.[13] Gallery paintings depict large rooms in which many paintings and other precious items are displayed in elegant surroundings.The earliest works in this genre depicted art objects together with other items such as scientific instruments or peculiar natural specimens.Some gallery paintings include portraits of the owners or collectors of the art objects or artists at work.
Frans Francken the Younger at the J. Paul Getty Museum
Allegory on the Abdication of Emperor Charles V in Brussels at the Rijksmuseum (in Dutch)
^ a b c d Frans Francken II in: Frans Jozef Peter Van den Branden, Geschiedenis der Antwerpsche schilderschool, Antwerpen, 1883, pp. 1615–1619 (in Dutch)
^ a b Susan Merriam, Seventeenth-Century Flemish Garland Paintings. Still Life, Vision and the Devotional Image, Ashgate Publishing, Ltd., 2012
Among his religiously themed works of particular note are the unusual and stylistically 'reactionary' paintings of biblical scenes, which are framed on all sides by smaller scenes in grisaille.The grisaille frame echoes the Renaissance ecclesiastical portal.Each grisaille scene has its own naturalistic perspective and as a result the compositions provide an odd mixture of three-dimensional naturalism and archaic flatness.Francken used this archaizing technique into the 1620s.[15] This style was possibly invented in the 16th century by the Flemish painter Gillis Mostaert and some works of Mostaert in this style have been erroneously attributed to Frans Francken.[16]
Frans Francken the Younger (1581 in Antwerp, 1581 – 6 May 1642, in Antwerp) was a Flemish painter who created altarpieces and furniture panels and gained his reputation chiefly through his small and delicate cabinet pictures with historical, mythological or allegorical themes.He is the best-known and most prolific member of the large Francken family of artists.[1] Franckenplayed an important role in the development of Flemish art in the first half of the 17th century through his innovations in many genres including genre painting and his introduction of new subject matter.He was a frequent collaborator of leading Antwerp painters of his time.[2]
Another allegorical painting is the composition Mankind's Eternal Dilemma: The Choice Between Virtue and Vice (on loan to the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.This work is believed to have been painted at the occasion of a wedding and mixes mythological and Christian symbolism.It represents the eternal choice of mankind between virtue and vice and depicts the three regions of heaven, earth and hell.[10]
Allegory on the Abdication of Emperor Charles V in Brussels
^ Martha Hollander, An Entrance for the Eyes: Space and Meaning in Seventeenth-century Dutch Art, University of California Press, 2002, p. 35.
Frans Francken the Younger was born in Antwerp as the son of Frans Francken the Elder and Elisabeth Mertens. His father was a pupil of Antwerp's leading history painter Frans Floris and one of the most important creators of altar pieces of his time in Flanders. Frans Francken the Younger trained with his father Frans the Elder.[3] Frans, together with his brother Hieronymus Francken II, may also have received additional training in the workshop of their uncle Hieronymus Francken I in Paris.
Anthony van Dyck, Portrait of Frans Francken II (6th state) Archived 2 December 2016 at the Wayback Machine at the Fitzwilliam Museum
Sensationsergebnis im Dorotheum - Weltrekord mit 7,02 Mio Euro für Frans Francken II bei der Auktion Alte Meister, Teuerstes jemals in Österreich versteigertes Gemälde
^ Marr, Alexander (2010) 'The Flemish 'Pictures of Collections' Genre: An Overview', Intellectual History Review, 20: 1, 5–25
The Flemish engraver Pieter van der Borcht introduced the singerie as an independent theme around 1575 in a series of prints, which are strongly embedded in the artistic tradition of Pieter Bruegel the Elder.These prints were widely disseminated and the theme was then picked up by other Flemish artists.The first one to do so was Frans Francken the Younger who played an important role in the development of the genre.Other Antwerp artists subsequently contributing to the genre were Jan Brueghel the Elder and the Younger, Sebastiaen Vrancx and Jan van Kessel the Elder. David Teniers the Younger became the principal practitioner of the genre and developed it further with his younger brother Abraham Teniers.Later in the 17th century Nicolaes van Verendael started to paint these 'monkey scenes' as well.[12]
^ a b Frans Francken (II) at the Netherlands Institute for Art History (in Dutch)
Frans Francken the Younger's pupils included Daniel Hagens (1616/17), the Monogrammist N.F., his brother Hieronymus II and his son Frans III.[3]
Sandokan (1883–1913), a series of pirate novels by Emilio Salgari. Set in Malaysia in the late 1800s.
Atlas Shrugged (1957) by Ayn Rand contains a fictional pirate Ragnar Danneskjöld whose activities are motivated by a capitalist ideology.
The action role-playing game Kingdom Hearts II features a section that adapts the plot of Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl. It features heroes Sora, Donald, and Goofy teaming up with movie protagonist Jack Sparrow to fight against the movie's villain, Barbossa, as well as a later scenario where the heroes revisit Jack. Kingdom Hearts III revisits this world, as the three heroes team up with Jack once again to battle Davy Jones in an adaptation of Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End.
One Piece (1999 onwards), the animated adaptation of the Japanese comic of the same name (see above).
Il pirata (The Pirate) is an opera by Vincenzo Bellini, 1827
Gorillaz recorded a song called "Pirate Jet" which appears as the 16th track on their third studio album Plastic Beach.
One Piece (1997 onwards), set in a fictional world where piracy is at its height, the World Government and its Navy attempt to put it to a stop, and one young man desires to become the next Pirate King. The most popular manga to date in Japan.
ProfessionalAmerican footballLas Vegas Raiders – National Football LeagueTampa Bay Buccaneers – National Football LeagueAssociation footballBristol Rovers FC – Football League One, EnglandOrlando Pirates– Premier Soccer League, South AfricaTampa Bay Mutiny – Major League SoccerBaseballAmsterdam Pirates – Honkbal Hoofdklasse (Dutch Baseball League)Pittsburgh Pirates – Major League BaseballPiratas de Campeche – Liga Mexicana de Béisbol (Mexican League)Piratas de Isla de la Juventud – Cuban National SeriesBasketballPiratas de La Guaira – Superliga Profesional de Baloncesto, VenezuelaPiratas de Quebradillas – Baloncesto Superior Nacional, Puerto RicoWörthersee Piraten – Österreichische Basketball Bundesliga, AustriaIce hockeyPortland Pirates – American Hockey LeagueRugby leagueCanberra Raiders – National Rugby League, Australia
BaseballAmsterdam Pirates – Honkbal Hoofdklasse (Dutch Baseball League)Pittsburgh Pirates – Major League BaseballPiratas de Campeche – Liga Mexicana de Béisbol (Mexican League)Piratas de Isla de la Juventud – Cuban National Series
^ Bradley, Ian (1982). The Annotated Gilbert and Sullivan. Harmondsworth, England: Penguin Books. pp. 86–87. ISBN 0-14-070848-0.
HockeyNepean Raiders – Central Junior Hockey LeaguePrince Albert Raiders – Western Hockey LeagueRichmond Renegades – ECHLRochester Raiders – Great Lakes Indoor Football LeagueTottenville Pirates
^ A general history of the robberies & murders of the most notorious pirates. Intro – Page ix
Piratas de Isla de la Juventud – Cuban National Series
Alestorm is a pirate-themed power/folk metal based in Perth, Scotland. Their fans are also encouraged to dress up like pirates and bring props to concerts.
Batman: Leatherwing (1994), an Elseworlds comic by Chuck Dixon featuring Batman as a pirate.
^ Jason Porterfield, Treasure Island and the Pirates of the 18th Century, Rosen, 2004, p. 12.
^ "How to train pirates". 26 April 2020.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Powell, M. (17 March 2015). "Introduction: Striding the Deck, Strutting the Stage". British Pirates in Print and Performance. Springer. ISBN 978-1-137-33992-8.
Mark G. Hanna, A Lot of What Is Known about Pirates Is Not True, and a Lot of What Is True Is Not Known., HUMANITIES, Winter 2017, Volume 38, Number 1
The Dark Pictures Anthology: Man of Medan features 3 modern day pirates as the main antagonists.
In Eurovision Song Contest 2008, the Latvian band Pirates of the Sea entered with the song Wolves of the Sea
Against All Flags, a 1952 film starring Errol Flynn and Maureen O'Hara.
Charles Johnson (1724), A General History of the Robberies and Murders of the Most Notorious Pyrates, pp. 411–12.
In 18th and 19th century Britain, historical-fiction portrayals of pirates on the dramatic stage included false flag props representing the various European navies. A common trope was to represent the archetypical scene where a crew of privateers donned false uniforms along with the false flag as they approached a ship, only raising the skull and bones flag at the last moment before the attack. Other tricks often portrayed on stage included (in a more initially peaceful encounter of ships) the pirate offering to gamble, or claiming the need to inspect documents or retrieve a runaway prisoner, before placing the victim of the scheme in shackles. These portrayals of pirate characters were fictionalised but based on the mythologised historical memory of both the Golden Age of Piracy and the contemporary pirates at that time. Barbary corsairs were a frequent type of pirate portrayed in that genre of stage and literature.[5]
Sonic Rush Adventure takes place in a pirate-themed world. This includes a robot pirate named Captain Whisker.
Doodle Pirate is an Android Game developed by Impudia Games, featuring a comedic side of treasure hunting.
This page was last edited on 16 March 2023, at 01:34 (UTC).
Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag is centered around the Golden Age of Piracy.
The Doctor and his friends encountered space pirates in numerous episodes of BBC's Doctor Who (such as The Space Pirates), though they also met historical pirates in The Smugglers (1966) and The Curse of the Black Spot (2011). Both stories involved the bounty of Captain Henry Avery (Hugh Bonneville), who the Doctor eventually befriended.
The characteristics of pirates in popular culture largely derive from the Golden Age of Piracy in the late 17th and early 18th centuries, with many examples of pirate fiction being set within this era. Vikings, who were also pirates, took on a distinct and separate archetype in popular culture, dating from the Viking revival.The first major literary work to popularise the subject of pirates was A General History of the Robberies and Murders of the most notorious pirates (1724) by Captain Charles Johnson.[1] In giving an almost mythical status to the more colourful characters, such as the notorious English pirates Blackbeard and Calico Jack, the book provided the standard account of the lives of many pirates in the Golden Age, and influenced pirate literature of Scottish novelists Robert Louis Stevenson and J. M. Barrie.[2] While Johnson's text recounted the lives of many famous pirates from the era, it is likely that he used considerable licence in his accounts of pirate conversations.[3]
Swashbuckle is an American thrash metal band who dress up and sing about pirates.
CAPCOM. "Character Guide 150: Ruby | The Character Guides | Activity Reports". CAPCOM:Shadaloo C.R.I. Retrieved 23 October 2022.
Fanny Campbell, the Female Pirate Captain, a novel about a woman who goes to sea dressed as a man to rescue her fiancé and becomes a pirate captain
Southwestern Pirates – NCAA Division III Southern Collegiate Athletic Conference
Pirates: The Legend of Black Kat by Westwood studios is a mix of third-person adventure and sea battles.
Running Wild, a German Metal band, adopted a "pirate metal" image in 1987, with its third album.
Pro wrestler Paul Burchill from WWE Friday Night SmackDown dressed like a pirate and claimed that Blackbeard is his great-great-great-great-great-grandfather. Previously, Carl Ouellet wrestled as Jean-Pierre Lafitte (supposedly a descendant of pirate Jean Lafitte).
Historical drama films(Middle Ages in film, Arthurian films, Peplum film genre)
Treasure Island, a 1934 adaptation of Stevenson's book, starring Wallace Beery.
Zack & Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure is an adventure video puzzle game for the Nintendo Wii.
Ben Brotemarkle, Florida Frontiers “Pirates in Florida, Real and Imagined”, Florida Historical Society, 2015
Megaman Battle Network 6 has a WWW member named Captain Blackbeard, an operator of Diveman.EXE who dressed as a sailor.
The Black Swan, a 1942 film starring Tyrone Power, Maureen O'Hara, and Anthony Quinn.
Richard R. E. Kania, Pirates and Piracy in American Popular Culture, Romanian Journal of English Studies, Volume 11, Issue 1
American comedy band The Aquabats recorded a song entitled "Captain Hampton and the Midget Pirates" on their 1997 album The Fury of The Aquabats!, which told the story of Jim, a young boy who joins a pirate-hunting crew headed by Captain Hampton. Pirates are also mentioned in the band's 2000 song "The Wild Sea" on Myths, Legends and Other Amazing Adventures, Vol. 2.
Jason Porterfield, Treasure Island and the Pirates of the 18th Century, Rosen, 2004, p. 12.
Black Lagoon (2002 onwards) is a Japanese manga portraying group of modern-day pirates in the southeast Asian sea, largely making money with acts of smuggling, extortion, or acting as mercenaries.
The pirate archetype has been adapted to science fiction with more or less futuristic dress and speech.
Final Fantasy XII has many characters, including Balthier are sky pirates. Also, Faris in Final Fantasy V and Leila in Final Fantasy II are pirates.
Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest features pirate-themed enemies and locations, including the recurring villain King K. Rool now named Kaptain K. Rool and dressed as a pirate captain.
In films, books, cartoons, and toys, pirates often have a rough-and-ready appearance that evokes their criminal lifestyle, rogue personalities and adventurous, seafaring pursuits. They are usually greedy, mean-spirited, drunk on rum and focused largely on fighting and robbing enemy pirates and locating hidden treasure. They often wear shabby 17th or 18th century clothing, with a bandana or feathered tricorne. They are almost always armed with a cutlass and a flintlock pistol, or similar weaponry. They sometimes have scars and battle wounds, rotten or missing teeth (suggesting the effects of scurvy), as well as a hook or wooden stump where a hand or leg has been amputated and often an eye patch to conceal a lost eye. Some depictions of pirates also include monkeys or parrots as pets, the former mischievously assisting them in thieving and the latter loudly copying whatever the pirate captain says. The ship's captain will force captives and mutinous shipmates to walk the plank over shark-infested waters.
The Pirate Movie (1982), an Australian film loosely based on The Pirates of Penzance, stars Christopher Atkins and Kristy McNichol.
World of Warcraft features pirates as NPCs and quest givers. In addition, Pirate's Day is celebrated in-game on September 19 each year in honour of International Talk Like a Pirate Day.
The Princess Bride, a 1987 film adaptation of the William Goldman novel that has "The Dread Pirate Roberts" as one of its central characters.
A general history of the robberies & murders of the most notorious pirates. By Charles Johnson
Cosmo Jarvis released the song "Gay Pirates" on 23 January 2011.
Captain Sabertooth is a play first performed in the zoo\amusement park at Norway by Terje Formoe.
The Disney Junior animated series Jake and the Never Land Pirates debuted in 2011.
http://www.literarytraveler.com/authors/captain_hook.aspx The Real Life and Fictional Characters Who Inspired J.M. Barrie's Captain Hook
Abraham Tuizentfloot, a mad man dressed up as a pirate who frequently wants to attack people. He debuted in Marc Sleen's The Adventures of Nero in 1957.[8]
Mad Jack the Pirate, produced by Bill Kopp, showed on Fox Kids in the 1990s.
Star Wars Empire At War contains a non-playable faction called the Black Sun Pirates, a large gang of mercenaries.
The singing and dancing pirates Nasty Max, Mighty Matt, Massmedia and Sleazeappeal from the animated series Spartakus and the Sun Beneath the Sea.
Crossbones is an American television series on the NBC network which premiered May 30, 2014.
On Stranger Tides (1987), a historical fantasy novel by Tim Powers. It was loosely adapted into the fourth Pirates of the Caribbean film.
The Pirates of Penzance, a comic operetta by Gilbert and Sullivan contains a Pirate King and a crew of orphan pirates.
Emerson, Lake & Palmer recorded the song "Pirates", a 13 minute long performance piece from their 1977 tour.It features the Orchestra de L'Opera de Paris. The piece can be found on the album "Works, volume 1"
Cutthroat Island, a 1995 Renny Harlin film that was a notable flop, starring Geena Davis
Pirates of Treasure Island, a 2006 film adaptation of the novel Treasure Island produced by The Asylum.
Homestuck (2009-2016), features a number of pirate themed characters such as Vriska Serket and her ancestor, Marquise Spinneret Mindfang.
The music group Ye Banished Privateers recently introduced the sports genre "pirate kung fu" for fans and musicians alike.[19]
While no pirates are ever on stage in William Shakespeare's play Hamlet, Hamlet claims that his ship to England was overtaken by pirates.
Because pirate ships connote fearsomeness, loyalty and teamwork, many professional and amateur sports teams use the nickname Pirates, as well as other nicknames or logos associated with cultural depictions of pirates, such as an eyepatch.
The Government Manual for New Pirates (2007), a spoof of survival guides by Matthew David Brozik and Jacob Sager Weinstein.
The Red Seas (2002 onwards), a mix of pirates and strange phenomena by Ian Edginton and Steve Yeowell.
Störtebeker Festival on Rügen island in Germany, established in 1959/1993, is one of the best-established open-air theatres in Europe, following the stories and legends of Klaus Störtebeker and his Victual Brothers and Likedeelers of the 14th century.
A general history of the robberies & murders of the most notorious pirates. Intro – Page ix
Find sources: "Pirates in the arts and popular culture" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Watchmen features a "comic book within a comic book" called Tales of the Black Freighter. Watchmen is set in an alternate history where superheroes are alive and known to be in disgrace, so instead of comics dealing with superheroes, comics dealing with pirates are more popular.
Captain Crook was a character in McDonald's restaurants' McDonaldland advertising, 1971–1985. He appeared as a "mascot"-type costumed character, performed by Robert Towers and voiced by Larry Storch.
Piratas de Campeche – Liga Mexicana de Béisbol (Mexican League)
Bradley, Ian (1982). The Annotated Gilbert and Sullivan. Harmondsworth, England: Penguin Books. pp. 86–87. ISBN 0-14-070848-0.
A Lot of What Is Known about Pirates Is Not True, and a Lot of What Is True Is Not Known.
Street Fighter V: Ruby Heart Rose Costume Trailer, retrieved 23 October 2022
Jamaica Inn, a 1939 film starring Charles Laughton, Maureen O'Hara, and Robert Newton.
Space pirates are science fiction character archetypes who operate in outer space, rather than sailing the sea. As traditional seafaring pirates target sailing ships, space pirates capture and plunder spaceships for cargo, money, and occasionally they steal entire spacecraft.
^ A general history of the robberies & murders of the most notorious pirates. By Charles Johnson Introduction and commentary by David Cordingly. Conway Maritime Press (2002).
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Powell, M. (17 March 2015). "Introduction: Striding the Deck, Strutting the Stage". British Pirates in Print and Performance. Springer. ISBN 978-1-137-33992-8.
Black Lagoon is a 2006 anime about pirates in the South China Sea. It is a somewhat realistic look at the underlying themes of modern-day piracy.
Treasure Island, a 1950 adaptation of Stevenson's book, starring Robert Newton.
Sid Meier's Pirates! is a well-known video game featuring pirates.
Pirates feature as a character class in several Fire Emblem games.
Skies of Arcadia is a video game for the Sega Dreamcast (later remade as Skies of Arcadia Legends for the Nintendo Gamecube) about a group of air pirates that struggle against an oppressive power threatening to take over and destroy the world.
The HBO Max TV series Our Flag Means Death is a romantic comedy created by David Jenkins in 2022.
In Suikoden IV there are a great deal of pirates to encounter and recruit.
Sly 3: Honor Among Thieves features a level in which the Cooper Gang steals a pirate ship, and upgrades it to defeat rival pirate crews
The independent action-adventure game Wandersong features a chapter called "Voyage of the Lady Arabica," where the bard protagonist and his witch friend Miriam set out on a voyage with what appears to be a pirate crew. Despite their appearance, however, they don't engage in usual pirate activities, instead growing and selling coffee beans.
Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction and Ratchet & Clank Future: Quest for Booty contain pirates as enemies throughout the levels.
Black Sails is a television drama series created by Jonathan E. Steinberg and Robert Levine for Starz Inc., which premiered in January 2014.
The Princess Bride (1973), a novel by William Goldman has "The Dread Pirate Roberts" as one of its central characters.
^ A general history of the robberies & murders of the most notorious pirates. Page viii
Stevenson's Treasure Island (1883) is considered the most influential work of pirate fiction, along with its many film and television adaptations, and introduced or popularised many of the characteristics and cliches now common to the genre.Stevenson identified Johnson's General History of the pirates as one of his major influences, and even borrowed one character's name (Israel Hands) from a list of Blackbeard's crew which appeared in Johnson's book.[4]
A general history of the robberies & murders of the most notorious pirates. By Charles Johnson Introduction and commentary by David Cordingly. Conway Maritime Press (2002).
Musicians have long been drawn towards pirate culture, due to its disestablishmentarianism and motley dress. An early 1960s British pop group called itself Johnny Kidd and the Pirates, and wore eye patches while they performed. Keith Moon, drummer of The Who, was a fan of Robert Newton. Flogging Molly, The Briggs, Dropkick Murphys, The LeperKhanz, The Coral, The Mighty Mighty Bosstones, Tokyo Ska Paradise Orchestra, Bullets And Octane, Mad Caddies, The Vandals, Gnarkill, Armored Saint, Jimmy Buffett, and Stephen Malkmus have pirate-themed songs as well.
Swashbuckler, a 1976 film starring Robert Shaw, James Earl Jones, Peter Boyle, Genevieve Bujold, Beau Bridges and Anjelica Huston about pirates in Jamaica fighting against the island's corrupt Governor.
Terry and the Pirates (1934–1973) by Milton Caniff is an adventure comic strip frequently set among 20th-century pirates of China and Southeast Asia, led by the notorious Dragon Lady.
Tropico 2: Pirate Cove is a 2003 city-building game in which player runs a pirate island as the Pirate King.
Pirate Islands, a 2003 Australian children's television show, and sequel Pirate Islands: The Lost Treasure of Fiji.
Pirates, Vikings and Knights II is a multiplayer video game in which players can play as a team of highly stereotypical pirates.
The Island (1979) by Peter Benchley and the 1980 movie adaptation for which he wrote the screenplay, feature a latter-day band of pirates who prey on civilian shipping in the Caribbean.
Pirates was a 1994 children's sitcom about a family of pirates living in a council house.
The Island (1980), a film based on Peter Benchley's novel.
Goth musician/comedian Voltaire illustrates the sometimes humorous rivalry between vampiric and pirate camps of goths in the song "Vampire Club" from the album Boo Hoo (2002).
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest (2006), the second film starring Depp, Bloom, Knightley, and Bill Nighy.
The Dealings of Captain Sharkey (1925), a novel by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, famous for his stories of Sherlock Holmes.
Pirates also play a central role in the parody religion of Pastafarianism. Established in 2005,[7] Pastafarians (members of The Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster) claim to believe that global warming is a result of the severe decrease in pirates since the 18th century, explaining the coldness associated with winter months that follow Halloween as a direct effect of the number of pirates that make their presence known in celebration.
A General History of the Robberies and Murders of the most notorious Pyrates (1724) by Captain Charles Johnson (possibly a pseudonym for Defoe) introduced many features which later became common in pirate literature, such as pirates with missing legs or eyes, the myth of pirates burying treasure, and the name of the pirates flag Jolly Roger.[12]
Yohoho! Puzzle Pirates is a massively multiplayer online game in which the player takes the role of a pirate, having adventures on the high seas and pillaging money from roaming enemy ships.
Asian films (Samurai cinema and Jidaigeki films, Wuxia films and wuxia tv series)
Uncharted Waters is a series of role-playing video games by Koei set in the Age of Exploration where the player takes the role of a naval fleet captain. All the games feature pirates as regular threats and it is possible to play with pirate characters in some of the iterations.
The Corsair (1814), a poem by Byron concerns a pirate captain. It directly inspired Berlioz' overture Le Corsair (1844).
Jean LaFoote was an animated pirate character appearing in advertising for Cap'n Crunch cereal in the mid-1970s. He was created by Jay Ward Productions and voiced by Jay Ward regular Bill Scott.
American footballLas Vegas Raiders – National Football LeagueTampa Bay Buccaneers – National Football League
In 1904, J.M. Barrie's play Peter Pan, or The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up was first performed. In the book, Peter's enemy in Neverland is the pirate crew led by Captain Hook. Details on Barrie's conception of Captain Hook are lacking, but it seems he was inspired by at least one historical privateer, and possibly by Robert Louis Stevenson's Long John Silver as well.[6]In film adaptations released in 1924, 1953, and 2003, Hook's dress, as well as the attire of his crew, corresponds to stereotypical notions of pirate appearance.
^ CAPCOM. "Character Guide 150: Ruby | The Character Guides | Activity Reports". CAPCOM:Shadaloo C.R.I. Retrieved 23 October 2022.
Long John Silver, a 1954 sequel to Treasure Island, starring Robert Newton.
Piratas de La Guaira – Superliga Profesional de Baloncesto, Venezuela
Ye Banished Privateers, an Umea based band, perform shanty- and folk inspired pirate music, also incorporating theatrical elements into their concerts.
Pirates of the 20th Century, a 1979 Soviet adventure film about modern piracy.
Six Days Seven Nights, a 1998 film, features piracy in the South China Sea.
Queen of the Black Coast (1934), novelette by Robert E. Howard features Bêlit a pirate queen who has a romantic relationship with Conan. She is Conan's first serious lover.
Isle of Swords (2007), a novel by Wayne Thomas Batson.
The Buccaneers of America by John Esquemeling is the supposedly real stories of some Caribbean pirates.
The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker features pirates such as Tetra and her crew.
Robinson Crusoe (1719) and The Life, Adventures and Piracies of the Famous Captain Singleton (1720) by Daniel Defoe were among the first novels to depict piracy, among other maritime adventures.
Treasure Island, a 1972 adaptation of Stevenson's book, starring Orson Welles.
5Pirates in the arts											Toggle Pirates in the arts subsection																					5.1Comics and manga																											5.2Films																											5.3Literature																											5.4Music																											5.5Stage																											5.6Television																											5.7Video games																											5.8Advertising
Heroes of the Storm features pirate-themed battleground Blackheart's Bay, and Blackheart, the ghost pirate lord, as an announcer.
Nox Arcana recorded a pirate-themed album Phantoms of the High Seas in 2008 that contains a series of hidden puzzles and clues leading to a treasure map.
^ "Piratas en la literatura". globedia.com (in Spanish). Retrieved 28 June 2021.
In 1879, the comic opera The Pirates of Penzance was an instant hit in New York, and the original London production in 1880 ran for 363 performances.[16]The piece, depicting an incompetent band of "tenderhearted" British pirates, is still performed widely today, and obviously corresponds to historical knowledge about the emergence of piracy in the Caribbean.
^ a b http://www.literarytraveler.com/authors/captain_hook.aspx The Real Life and Fictional Characters Who Inspired J.M. Barrie's Captain Hook
Arrrr! Pirates invading pop culture, NBC News, May 18, 2007
Sea Witch (2006), a novel for adults by Helen Hollick published by DA Diamonds.
Historical pirates were often sailors or soldiers who had fallen into misfortune or were captured, forced into a life of crime. In various literature, the pirates may be represented as having fallen, perhaps resembling a "respectable" person in some way.[6] Pirate characters generally quest for buried treasure, plundered riches in treasure chests. Pirates' treasure is usually gold or silver, often in the form of doubloons or pieces of eight.
The Sex Pistols adapted the saucy song "Good Ship Venus" as their hit "Friggin' in the Rigging". Fellow Malcolm McLaren protégée Adam Ant took the pirate image further. One of the tracks on the album Kings of the Wild Frontier was called "Jolly Roger".
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003), the first film starring Johnny Depp, Geoffrey Rush, Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley.
CollegiateBarry University Buccaneers – Sunshine State ConferenceEast Carolina Pirates – American Athletic ConferenceEast Tennessee State Buccaneers – Southern ConferenceMass Maritime Buccaneers – Massachusetts State College Athletic ConferenceMiddle Tennessee Blue Raiders – Conference USAMount Union Purple Raiders – Ohio Athletic ConferenceSeton Hall Pirates – Big East ConferenceSouthwestern Pirates – NCAA Division III Southern Collegiate Athletic ConferenceUMass Dartmouth Corsairs – Little East ConferenceNew Orleans Privateers – Southland Conference
Dantas, Lucas Peixoto (7 January 2012). Ana E Os Piratas Do Novo Mundo (in Brazilian Portuguese). Clube de Autores.
The Pyrates Way Magazine (2006–Present), a quarterly online magazine by Kimball Publications, LLC.
Claw is a platform game by Monolith Productions that is a cartoon parody of pirate films.
Captain Morgan – the namesake of the British brand of rum is Sir Henry Morgan (c. 1635 – 1688), known as both a privateer and a pirate.
The Pirates! In an Adventure with Scientists!, a 2012 Aardman Animations film loosely adapted from a comedy book by Gideon Defoe.
Lego Racers first boss is Captain Redbeard. When he is beaten, you can build cars using "pirated-themed" lego pieces.
The Buccaneers 1956 - A juvenile adventure series produced for Britain's ITV. It featured Robert Shaw as Captain Dan Tempest, a reformed pirate in service to the British administration in the Bahamas during the early 18th century.
Yellowbeard, a 1983 film starring Graham Chapman as Yellowbeard the pirate.
A General History of the Robberies and Murders of the most notorious pirates
The Dreadnoughts are a Vancouver, Canada pirate-based band, including use of an accordion as well as a fiddle.
Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End (2007), the third film starring Depp, Rush, Bloom, Knightley, and Nighy.
The Black Corsair (1898), first in a series of pirate novels by Emilio Salgari.
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales (2017), the fifth film starring Depp, Rush, and Javier Bardem.
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl
The Pirate, a 1948 musical starring Gene Kelly and Judy Garland.
MinorHockeyNepean Raiders – Central Junior Hockey LeaguePrince Albert Raiders – Western Hockey LeagueRichmond Renegades – ECHLRochester Raiders – Great Lakes Indoor Football LeagueTottenville PiratesRugby UnionCornish Pirates
The Adventures of Hector Lynch (2007–2009), a pirate series by Tim Severin
Dantas, Lucas Peixoto (2012). Ana e os piratas do novo mundo. João Pessoa: Clube de Autores. ISBN 978-6500170634.
In a 1969 episode of Hanna-Barbera's Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!, Mystery Inc. faced the ghost of Redbeard (voiced by John Stephenson).
Nate and Hayes, a 1983 film based on the adventures of the notorious Bully Hayes, a pirate in the South Pacific in the late 19th century. Also known as Savage Islands.
Sea of Thieves is an open world video game with a pirate-themed setting.
The Buccaneer, a 1958 film starring Yul Brynner, Charles Boyer and Charlton Heston.
Metroid is a videogame in which the main antagonists are space pirates.
Outlaw Star, the primary antagonists of the series are members of the Pirate's Guild, a large network of space pirate clans throughout the universe.
In the show Deadliest Warrior, there was an episode titled "Pirate vs. Knight".
The Lady Pirates of Captain Bree also called Captain Bree and her Lady Pirates by Martin A. Follose and Bill Francoeur, a musical spoof
Scooby-Doo on Zombie Island, a 1998 film, Scooby and the gang investigate a bayou island haunted by the spirits of Morgan Moonscar and his crew.
The Nickelodeon animated TV series The Loud House features a character named CJ, who likes to play pirates. There is even an episode of The Casagrandes revolving around the pirate theme, entitled "Arrr in the Family".
Reap the Wild Wind, a 1942 film starring John Wayne.
Uncharted 4: A Thief's End is an adventure game centered around trying to find Henry Every's treasure
Many games, movies, and other media are built upon the premise, introduced by Real Ultimate Power, that pirates buccaneers are sworn enemies of ninjas. The "Pirates versus Ninjas" meme is also expressed in house parties and merchandise at popular-culture clothing and gift stores.
The Piratica Series (2004, 2006, and 2007), a series of pirate novels by Tanith Lee.
^ Street Fighter V: Ruby Heart Rose Costume Trailer, retrieved 23 October 2022
The seventh season of Survivor, Pearl Islands, and Pirate Master had a piracy theme.
"Barret's Privateers" is a song written by Stan Rogers popular in Nova Scotia, Canada detailing the fictional story of Elcid Barret and his privateers and their voyage on the Antelope to raid American shipping vessels.
BasketballPiratas de La Guaira – Superliga Profesional de Baloncesto, VenezuelaPiratas de Quebradillas – Baloncesto Superior Nacional, Puerto RicoWörthersee Piraten – Österreichische Basketball Bundesliga, Austria
Air pirates are science fiction and fantasy character archetypes who operate in the air, rather than sailing the sea. As traditional seafaring pirates target sailing ships, air pirates capture and plunder aircraft and other targets for cargo, money, and occasionally they steal entire aircraft.
Ana e os piratas do novo mundo (2012), a novel by Lucas Peixoto Dantas[13][14][15]
A group of hapless pirates in Albert Uderzo's Astérix, in themselves parodies of the characters of Redbeard (see above), often run into Asterix and Obelix and are subsequently beaten up and usually sunk.[11]
Muppet Treasure Island, a 1996 film starring The Muppets and Tim Curry.
Captain Blood (1922), a novel by Rafael Sabatini (followed by two sequels: Captain Blood Returns [aka The Chronicles of Captain Blood] and The Fortunes of Captain Blood, each being a collection of Captain Blood adventures).
Relient K released a single covering the song "The Pirates Who Don't Do Anything" for the children's show VeggieTales. It was originally recorded by the cast of VeggieTales, and Relient K's version of the song was later included in the 2003 compilation album called Veggie Rocks!
Alone in the Dark is a survival horror game in which the antagonist is a pirate turned eldritch cultist named Ezechiel Pregzt. Its sequel Alone in the Dark 2, featured a large number of antagonists who were all pirates led by One Eyed Jack.
Rogue Galaxy is a role-playing video game in which the main character, Jaster Rogue joins a crew of space pirates to help defeat an oppressive empire.
Treasure Planet, a 2002 film, Disney-animated science fiction adaptation of Stevenson's book.
"The Gold-Bug" (1843), a short story by Edgar Allan Poe featured a search for buried treasure hidden by Captain William Kidd and found by following an elaborate code on a scrap of parchment.
The animated series SpongeBob SquarePants' theme song is sung by Painty the Pirate, voiced by Pat Pinney. Certain episodes are also introduced by Patchy the Pirate, portrayed by Tom Kenny, the voice of SpongeBob SquarePants. Also in some of the SpongeBob episodes there is a character called The Flying Dutchman who is a pirate ghost.
In Tales of Berseria the protagonist reluctantly teams up with a group of pirates. The first mate, Eizen, becomes part of the main cast while the rest of the crew makes frequent appearances throughout the game. The player has the choice of sending the crew on expeditions to retrieve items and explore uncharted waters.
Louis Kemner, Magic: The Gathering - A Whole FLEET of New Pirates Just Arrived, Comic Book Resources, November 8, 2020
Frenchman's Creek, a 1944 film starring Basil Rathbone and Joan Fontaine.
The Pirates! in an Adventure with Scientists (2004) by Gideon Defoe, a surreal adventure with stereotypical pirates and Charles Darwin. Defoe has written subsequent books involving the same pirate crew and their anachronistic, absurd adventures.
Captain Pugwash, a series of British children's animated television programmes, comic strips and books, was first shown on the BBC in 1957.
In the Soul series, Cervantes, a long-standing character in the franchise, is a pirate. In Soul Calibur III specifically, there is a 'Pirate' class option for custom characters.
The first hub in Pac-Man World contains four pirate-themed levels named Buccaneer Beach, Corsair's Cove, Crazy Cannonade, and HMS Windbag.
Marika Kato is the protagonist and space pirate captain of the Bentenmaru in the anime Bodacious Space Pirates (2012).
Pirates of the Burning Sea is a swashbuckling MMORPG set in the early 18th century Caribbean.
The Original Rabbit Foot Spasm Band released the song "Pirates!" in their album Year of the Rabbit on 3 February 2011.
The Son of Captain Blood, a 1962 sequel to Captain Blood, starring Sean Flynn.
Pirates, a 1986 Roman Polanski comic/adventure film starring Walter Matthau.
The Goonies, a 1985 film starring Sean Astin, Josh Brolin and Corey Feldman.
Magic: The Gathering - A Whole FLEET of New Pirates Just Arrived
Association footballBristol Rovers FC – Football League One, EnglandOrlando Pirates– Premier Soccer League, South AfricaTampa Bay Mutiny – Major League Soccer
Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides (2011), the fourth film starring Depp, Rush, Penélope Cruz and Ian McShane.
Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger (2011) is the 35th anniversary season of the Super Sentai series that has a pirate theme & its American counterpart Power Rangers Super Megaforce which is part of the 20th anniversary season of the Power Rangers which uses costumes, props, & footage from Gokaiger.
In 1986, the Beastie Boys paid homage to the pirate lifestyle on their Licensed to Ill album with the song "Rhymin' and Stealin'".The song is filled with piratical and nautical phrasing liberally mixed with 1980s hip-hop references.
"Character Guide 150: Ruby | The Character Guides | Activity Reports"
"How to train pirates". 26 April 2020.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
The Flemish children's TV series Piet Piraat by Studio 100 stars a pirate captain and his crew.
The pirate-themed Monkey Island series of video games is inspired by Tim Powers' book On Stranger Tides and Disneyland's Pirates of the Caribbean ride. It is set in the 18th century Caribbean and stars the hero pirate Guybrush Threepwood and the evil pirate LeChuck.
The Life, Adventures and Piracies of the Famous Captain Singleton
Plundered Hearts is a text adventure set in the 17th century in which the player character is a young woman who gets kidnapped by pirates.
Ruby Heart is a female pirate created by Capcom for the game Marvel vs Capcom 2. She also makes cameos in that game's sequel as well as Street Fighter V.[17][18]
^ Dantas, Lucas Peixoto (7 January 2012). Ana E Os Piratas Do Novo Mundo (in Brazilian Portuguese). Clube de Autores.
The Pirate, a musical starring Judy Garland and Gene Kelly, has a number of songs about piracy in general, and the dread pirate "Mack the Black" Macoco in particular.
The Pirates of Dark Water is a Hanna-Barbera animated series of the 1990s.
In English-speaking popular culture, the modern pirate stereotype owes its attributes mostly to the imagined tradition of the 18th century Caribbean pirate sailing off the Spanish Main and to such celebrated 20th century depictions as Captain Hook and his crew in the theatrical and film versions of J. M. Barrie's children's book Peter Pan, Robert Newton's portrayal of Long John Silver in the 1950 film adaptation of the Robert Louis Stevenson novel Treasure Island, and various adaptations of the Middle Eastern pirate, Sinbad the Sailor. In these and countless other books, films, and legends, pirates are portrayed as "swashbucklers" and "plunderers". They are shown on ships, often wearing eyepatches or peg legs, having a parrot perched on their shoulder, and saying phrases like "Arr, matey" and "Avast, me hearty".[citation needed] Pirates have retained their image through pirate-themed tourist attractions, film, toys, books and plays.
Mutiny is an Australian pirate themed folk-punk band with releases on Fistolo Records.
^ Dantas, Lucas Peixoto (2012). Ana e os piratas do novo mundo. João Pessoa: Clube de Autores. ISBN 978-6500170634.
"Piratas en la literatura". globedia.com (in Spanish). Retrieved 28 June 2021.
The Wiggles introduced the friendly pirate Captain Feathersword (played by Paul Paddick) in the 1993 video Wiggle Time!
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Pirates in the arts and popular culture" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ Charles Johnson (1724), A General History of the Robberies and Murders of the Most Notorious Pyrates, pp. 411–12.
Disney's TaleSpin (1990) featured the air pirate Don Karnage who always tried to steal goods and sometimes treasures from Baloo.
Medal of Honor: Warfighter, a first-person shooter made by Danger Close Games
A General History of the Robberies and Murders of the most notorious Pyrates
Pirates of the Caribbean, a series of films based on Walt Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean attraction.Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003), the first film starring Johnny Depp, Geoffrey Rush, Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley.Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest (2006), the second film starring Depp, Bloom, Knightley, and Bill Nighy.Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End (2007), the third film starring Depp, Rush, Bloom, Knightley, and Nighy.Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides (2011), the fourth film starring Depp, Rush, Penélope Cruz and Ian McShane.Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales (2017), the fifth film starring Depp, Rush, and Javier Bardem.
A general history of the robberies & murders of the most notorious pirates. Page viii
Redbeard (1959 onwards), a Belgian comics series by Jean-Michel Charlier and Victor Hubinon starring captain Redbeard.[9][10]
