Chambers, William (1878). Chambers's Etymological Dictionary of the English Language. W. & R. Chambers.
^ Chambers, William (1878). Chambers's Etymological Dictionary of the English Language. W. & R. Chambers.
"pedant". The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (Fifth ed.). Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. 2014. Retrieved 27 March 2015.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"pédant". dictionary.cambridge.org. Retrieved 2021-06-02.
^ "pedant". The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (Fifth ed.). Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. 2014. Retrieved 27 March 2015.
Pedantry can also be an indication of specific developmental disorders. In particular, people with Autism Spectrum Disorder (formerly Asperger syndrome) often have behaviour characterized by pedantic speech.[10]
^ Anankastic personality disorder Archived 2001-04-17 at the Wayback Machine. International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 10th Revision (ICD-10).
^ pedant, n. and adj. The Oxford English Dictionary (Draft ed.). Oxford University Press. September 2008. Archived from the original on 2008-08-07.
A pedant is a person who is excessively concerned with formalism, accuracy and precision, or one who makes an ostentatious and arrogant show of learning.
"Asperger's Syndrome: Guidelines for Assessment and Intervention". 2007-04-07. Archived from the original on April 7, 2007. Retrieved 2013-07-25.
O'Brian, Robert D. (2014-02-18). A Comparative Vocabulary Study Guide: Spanish to Portuguese to English to Chinese. First Edition Design Pub. ISBN 978-1-62287-544-3.
"Pedantic – Examples and Definition of Pedantic". Literary Devices. 2015-05-29. Retrieved 2021-06-02.
^ "Pedantic - Examples and Definition of Pedantic". Literary Devices. 2015-05-29. Retrieved 2021-08-31.
Obsessive–compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) is in part characterized by a form of pedantry that is excessively concerned with the correct following of rules, procedures, and practices.[9] Sometimes the rules that OCPD sufferers obsessively follow are of their own devising, or are corruptions or reinterpretations of the letter of actual rules.
^ "Pedantic – Examples and Definition of Pedantic". Literary Devices. 2015-05-29. Retrieved 2021-06-02.
^ "Asperger's Syndrome: Guidelines for Assessment and Intervention". 2007-04-07. Archived from the original on April 7, 2007. Retrieved 2013-07-25.
pedant, n. and adj. The Oxford English Dictionary (Draft ed.). Oxford University Press. September 2008. Archived from the original on 2008-08-07.
The English language word pedant comes from the French pédant (used in 1566 in Darme & Hatzfeldster's Dictionnaire général de la langue française) or its older mid-15th century Italian source pedante, 'teacher, schoolmaster'.[1][2] (Compare the Spanish pedante.[3]) The origin of the Italian pedante is uncertain, but several dictionaries suggest that it was contracted from the medieval Latin pædagogans, present participle of pædagogare, 'to act as pedagogue, to teach' (Du Cange)[4] (see pedagogy).[5][6] The Latin word is derived from Greek παιδαγωγός, paidagōgós, παιδ- 'child' + ἀγειν 'to lead', which originally referred to a slave who escorted children to and from school but later meant "a source of instruction or guidance".[7][8]
^ O'Brian, Robert D. (2014-02-18). A Comparative Vocabulary Study Guide: Spanish to Portuguese to English to Chinese. First Edition Design Pub. ISBN 978-1-62287-544-3.
A Comparative Vocabulary Study Guide: Spanish to Portuguese to English to Chinese
"Pedantic - Examples and Definition of Pedantic". Literary Devices. 2015-05-29. Retrieved 2021-08-31.
Anankastic personality disorder Archived 2001-04-17 at the Wayback Machine. International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 10th Revision (ICD-10).
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"pédant". dictionary.cambridge.org. Retrieved 2021-06-02.
This page was last edited on 14 March 2023, at 15:22 (UTC).
He and I having reconciled our differences, the project then proceeded smoothly (Because/after he and I had reconciled our differences, the project proceeded smoothly). (This is known as the nominative absolute construction.)
5. The past participle is used to form passive voice:
Past participle: formation varies according to verb group: vendu "sold", mis "placed", marché "walked", été "been", and fait "done". The sense of the past participle is passive as an adjective and in most verbal constructions with "avoir", but active in verbal constructions with "être", in reflexive constructions, and with some intransitive verbs.[31]
Find sources: "Participle" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
The window was broken with a rock. (Here broken is a passive past participle)
As an adjective (note how "escritas" agrees in gender with the noun, "las cartas"):
Past participles are used as qualifiers for nouns: "la table cassée" (the broken table); to form compound tenses such as the perfect "Vous avez dit" (you have said) and to form the passive voice: "il a été tué" (he/it has been killed).
^ Tokaj, Jolanta (2016-06-01). "A comparative study of participles, converbs and absolute constructions in Hindi and Medieval Rajasthani". Lingua Posnaniensis. 58: 105–120. doi:10.1515/linpo-2016-0007.
^ Noam Chomsky, Aspects of the Theory of Syntax (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,1965), 21.
^ μετοχή. Liddell, Henry George; Scott, Robert; A Greek–English Lexicon at the Perseus Project
Turkish participles consist of a verb stem and a suffix. Some participles may be conjugated, but some may not. Participles always precede the noun they are defining, as in English.
Participles are often used to form certain grammatical tenses or grammatical aspects. The two types of participle in Modern English are termed present participle and past participle, respectively (often also referred to as the -ing form and -ed/-en form).[12] The traditional terms are misleading because the participles do not necessarily correspond to tense:[13] the present participle is often associated with the progressive (continuous) aspect, while the past participle is linked with the perfect aspect or passive voice. See the examples below:
Note that a past participle that complements a stative verb (e.g., "The files that are attached or "Our comrades who have fallen") becomes a passive participle within a passive voice construct.
“Participle” is a traditional grammatical term from Greek and Latin that is widely used for corresponding verb forms in European languages and analogous forms in Sanskrit and Arabic grammar.
Tokaj, Jolanta (2016-06-01). "A comparative study of participles, converbs and absolute constructions in Hindi and Medieval Rajasthani". Lingua Posnaniensis. 58: 105–120. doi:10.1515/linpo-2016-0007.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Participle" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
The present participle, also sometimes called the active, imperfect, or progressive participle, takes the ending -ing, for example doing, seeing, working, running, breaking, understanding. It is identical in form to the verbal noun and gerund (see below). The term present participle is sometimes used to include the gerund;[20] the term "gerund–participle" is also used to indicate the verb form.
Hewings, Martin. (2005). Future continuous and future perfect (continuous). In Advanced Grammar in Use (2nd ed.), p. 22. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Maintained properly, wooden buildings can last for centuries (If/when they are maintained properly, wooden buildings can last for centuries).
Present (active): olvas (read) – olvasó (reading), él (live) – élő (living)
past passive participle: this has been transformed into a verbal adjective (it behaves like a normal adjective);
By the time you get home I will have cleaned the house.[15]
present active participle: this has transformed into a verbal adverb;
Among Indo-European languages, the Lithuanian language is unique for having fourteen different participial forms of the verb, which can be grouped into five when accounting for inflection by tense. Some of these are also inflected by gender and case. For example, the verb eiti ("to go, to walk") has the active participle forms einąs/einantis ("going, walking", present tense), ėjęs (past tense), eisiąs (future tense), eidavęs (past frequentative tense), the passive participle forms einamas ("being walked", present tense), eitas (“walked” past tense), eisimas (future tense), the adverbial participles einant ("while [he, different subject] is walking" present tense), ėjus (past tense), eisiant (future tense), eidavus (past frequentative tense), the semi-participle eidamas ("while [he, the same subject] is going, walking") and the participle of necessity eitinas ("that which needs to be walked"). The active, passive, and the semi-participles are inflected by gender, and the active, passive, and necessity ones are inflected by case.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Past participle Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster".
Past active imperfect: правел [pravel] (only used in verbal constructions)
In all of the Scandinavian languages the past participle has to agree with the noun to some degree. All of the Scandinavian languages have mandatory agreement with the noun in number. Nynorsk and Swedish have mandatory agreement in both number and gender. Icelandic and Faroese have agreement in number, gender and case. The verb form used for the perfect (or "supine") aspect is generally identical to the nominative neuter singular form of the past participle for all verbs. For the present participle there is no agreement.
Participles are called sıfat-fiil (lit. adjective-verb) or ortaç in Turkish.[42]
Participles may also be identified with a particular voice: active or passive. Some languages (such as Latin and Russian) have distinct participles for active and passive uses. In English, the present participle is essentially an active participle, while the past participle has both active and passive uses.
^ a b The Russian Participles. Part of “An Interactive On-line Reference Grammar — Russian” by Dr. Robert Beard.
Participles, or participial phrases (clauses) formed from them, are used as follows:
Each and every one of these participles can be used as adjectives, which means that some of them can be turned into nouns.
The perfect participle is usually passive in meaning, and thus mainly formed from transitive verbs, for example frāctus "broken", missus "sent (by someone)". However, certain verbs (called deponent verbs) have a perfect participle in an active sense, e.g. profectus "having set out", hortātus "having encouraged", etc. The present and future participles are always active, the gerundive usually passive.
There are eight types of participle suffixes; -en, -esi, -mez, -ar, -di(k/ği) -ecek and -miş [43][44]
Huddleston, Rodney. (2002). In Rodney Huddleston & Geoffrey K. Pullum (Eds.), The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language (pp. 78-81). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
gerundive (sometimes[24] considered the future passive participle): e.g. legendus "due to be read", "necessary to be read"
Menovshchikov, G.A.: Language of Sireniki Eskimos. Phonetics, morphology, texts and vocabulary. Academy of Sciences of the USSR, Moscow • Leningrad, 1964. Original data: Г.А. Меновщиков: Язык сиреникских эскимосов. Фонетика, очерк морфологии, тексты и словарь. Академия Наук СССР. Институт языкознания. Москва • Ленинград, 1964
In addition, various compound participles can be formed, such as having done, being done, having been doing, having been done.[21]
The first sentence is in the past tense (were), but a present participle expresses the progressive aspect (be standing). The second sentence is in the future tense (will), but a past participle is used for the perfect aspect (have cleaned).
Some languages have extensive participial systems but English has only two participial forms, most commonly termed:
In the example, the participial phrase τὸν εὖ στρατηγήσοντα tòn eû stratēgḗsonta, literally "the one going to be a good general," is used to embed the idea εὖ στρατηγήσει eû stratēgḗsei "he will be a good general" within the main verb.
The participle is very widely used in Ancient Greek, especially in prose.
The Polish word for participle is imiesłów (pl.: imiesłowy). There are four types of imiesłowy in two classes:
For example, a falonta botelo is a bottle that will fall or is about to fall. A falanta botelo is one that is falling through the air. After it hits the floor, it is a falinta botelo. These examples use the active participles, but the usage of the passive participles is similar. A cake that is going to be divided is a dividota kuko. When it is in the process of being divided, it is a dividata kuko. Having been cut, it is now a dividita kuko.
This page was last edited on 12 March 2023, at 17:54 (UTC).
Future (has a modal meaning): olvas (read) – olvasandó (to be read), fizet (pay) – fizetendő (to be paid)
Sjølvkøyrande bilar kan vere farlege. (English: self-driving cars can be dangerous)
Grammatical descriptions vary in the way these are treated. Some descriptive grammars treat such adverbial and adjectival participles as distinct lexical categories, while others include them both in a single category of participles.[16][18] Adverbial participles in certain languages may be called converbs, gerunds, or gerundives (though this is not consistent with the meanings of the terms gerund or gerundive as normally applied to English or Latin), or transgressives.
Habrá escrito una carta. "She (he, it) will have written a letter."
3. In an adverbial phrase. In the following, the subject is understood to be the same as that of the main clause:
2. In postpositive phrases. These are often regarded as functioning as a reduced relative clause:
past participle,[8] which is regularly formed with an -ed suffix (e.g. looked, ended, tutored) but has numerous irregular forms (e.g. broken, spoken, eaten); and
Campbell, George L. (1995). Compendium of the World's Languages. Great Britain: Routledge. pp. 225–229. ISBN 0-415-11392-X.
Shagal (Krapivina), Future participles in Russian: Expanding the participial paradigm
Perfect: bemegy (go in) – bemenvén (having gone in) (this form is rarely used in modern Hungarian)
Utan servo vert bilen fort ukøyrande. (English: Without power steering, the car soon becomes impossible to drive.) (Lit: un-drivable)
Participles are adjectives formed from verbs. There are various kinds:
present participle: present stem + -ns (gen. -ntis); e.g. legēns (plural legentēs)"(while) reading"
Hebrew has a syntactic construction of the verb "to be" (הָיָה) hayá in the past tense, and the active participle that cognates to the past progressive tense in English. For example, the word עבדתי avádti means "I worked", and הייתי עובד hayíti ovéd means "I was working". Another use of this syntactic structure is equivalent to "used to" in English. For example, דויד בילדותו היה גר בארצות הברית davíd b'yaldutó hayá gar b'arcót habrít (David in his childhood used to live in the United States).[citation needed]
Present participles are used as qualifiers as in "un insecte volant" (a flying insect) and in some other contexts. They are never used to form tenses. The present participle is used in subordinate clauses, usually with en: "Je marche, en parlant".
Shapiro, Michael C. (1989). A Primer of Modern Standard Hindi. New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass. pp. 216–246. ISBN 81-208-0475-9.
Both the future and the perfect participle (but not the present participle) can be used with various tenses of the verb esse "to be" to make a compound tense such as the future-in-the-past or the perfect passive:
present participle,[9] which is formed with an -ing suffix (e.g. breaking, making, understanding).
Var maten etande? (English: Was the food edible?) (or rather: Was the food any good?)
Strīctō gladiō ad dormientem Lucrētiam vēnit.[26]"With drawn sword he came to the sleeping Lucretia."
The past participle (participio pasado or participio pasivo) is regularly formed with one of the suffixes -ado or -ido (-ado for verbs ending in "-ar" and -ido for verbs ending in "-er" or "-ir"; but some verbs have an irregular form ending in -to (e.g. escrito, visto, puesto), or -cho (e.g. dicho, hecho).[32] The past participle is used generally as an adjective referring to a finished action, in which case its ending changes according to gender and number. At other times is used to form compound tenses: the present perfect, past perfect (sometimes referred to as the pluscuamperfecto), and the future perfect, in which case it is indeclinable. Some examples:
Like an adjective, it can modify a noun, and can be used to embed one thought into another.
The word participle comes from classical Latin participium,[3] from particeps 'sharing, participation', because it shares certain properties of verbs, adjectives, and adverbs. The Latin grammatical term is a calque of the Greek grammatical term μετοχή : metochē,'participation, participle'.[4][5]
These participles can be used in conjunction with the verb to be, esti, forming 18 compound tenses (9 active and 9 passive). However, this soon becomes complicated and often unnecessary, and is only frequently used when rigorous translation of English is required. An example of this would be la knabo estos instruita, or, the boy will have been taught. This example sentence is then in the future anterior.
cf. Wheelock, pp. 106ff and 112 note; Allen & Greenough, p. 315.
Eō diē Rōmam ventūrus erat.[28]"On that day he was going to return to Rome."
Kiss, Katalin E.; Kiefer, Ferenc; Siptár, Péter (2003). Új magyar nyelvtan. Osiris tankönyvek (in Hungarian) (3. kiadás ed.). Budapest: Osiris Kiadó. ISSN 1218-9855.
^ Maurice Grevisse, Le Bon Usage, 10th edition, § 776.
This construction is allowed in Nynorsk, but not in Bokmål, where suffixes like -elig or -bar are used instead.
Much like Ancient Greek, Sanskrit has a wide array of participles.
When the suffix -o is used, instead of -a, then the participle refers to a person. A manĝanto is someone who is eating. A manĝinto is someone who ate. A manĝonto is someone who will eat. Also, a manĝito is someone who was eaten, a manĝato is someone who is being eaten, and a manĝoto is someone who will be eaten.
The linguistic term, past participle, was coined circa 1798[6] based on its participial form, whose morphology equates to the regular form of preterite verbs. The term, present participle, was first used circa 1864[7] to facilitate grammatical distinctions. Despite the taxonomical use of "past" and "present" as associated with the aforementioned participles, their respective semantic use can entail any tense, regardless of aspect, depending on how they are structurally combined.
Finnish uses six participles (partisiippi) to convey different meanings. Below is a table displaying the declension of the participles of the verb tappaa (to kill).
Sometimes their morphological similarity can create contextual ambiguity, as Noam Chomsky pointed out in his well-known example:[22]
Latin grammar was studied in Europe for hundreds of years, especially the handbook written by the 4th-century teacher Aelius Donatus, and it is from Latin that the name and concept of the participle derives. According to Donatus there are four participles in Latin, as follows:[23]
Znalazłem ich, chowając się w szafie. – chowając is a present adverbial participle agreeing grammatically with the subject ("I")
^ Huddleston, Rodney. (2002). In Rodney Huddleston & Geoffrey K. Pullum (Eds.), The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language (pp. 78-81). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Reviewing her bank statement, Ann started to cry (While she reviewed her bank statement, Ann started to cry).
^ a b Subbarao, K.; Arora, Harbir (2009-01-01). "The Conjunctive Participle in Dakkhini Hindi-Urdu: Making the Best of Both Worlds*". 70: 359–386. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Another participle form is known as the gerundio, which ends in an (unchanging) suffix -ando or -iendo. The gerundio is used in combination with the verb estar ("to be") to make continuous tenses: for example, estar haciendo means "to be doing" (haciendo being the gerundio of hacer, "to do"), and there are related constructions such as seguir haciendo meaning "to keep doing" (seguir being "to continue"). Another use is in phrases such as vino corriendo ("he/she came running") and lo vi corriendo ("I saw him running").
Having reviewed the bank statement, Ann started to cry (After she reviewed her bank statement, Ann started to cry).
Past active imperfect: направел [napravel] (only used in verbal constructions)
past active participle: there is only one remnant of the past active participle, which is the word бивш [bivš] (former). However, this word is often replaced with the word поранешен [poranešen] (former);
active adjectival participle (imiesłów przymiotnikowy czynny): robiący – "doing", "one who does"
Some languages differentiate adjectival participles and adverbial participles. An adverbial participle (or a participial phrase/clause based on such a participle) plays the role of an adverbial (adverb phrase) in the sentence in which it appears, whereas an adjectival participle (or a participial phrase/clause based on one) plays the role of an adjective phrase. Such languages include Russian[16] and other Slavic languages, Hungarian, and many Eskimo languages, such as Sireniki,[17] which has a sophisticated participle system. Details can be found in the sections below or in the articles on the grammars of specific languages.
(Dīxit eōs) locum facile inventūrōs (esse).[30]"He said that they were easily going to find the place / He said that they would find the place easily."
present passive participle: there are some isolated cases or remnants of the present passive participle, such as the word лаком [lakom] (greedy);
6. As a gerund. The gerund is traditionally regarded as distinct from the present participle. A gerund can function transitively (e.g., "I like eating ice cream") or intransitively (e.g., "I like swimming"). In both instances, a gerund functions nominatively rather than adjectivally or adverbially—whether as an object (e.g., "I like sleeping") or as a subject (e.g., "Sleeping is not allowed"). Although gerunds and present participles are morphologically identical, their grammatical functions differ substantially.
We are a people clamoring for freedom (We are a people who are clamoring for freedom).
In the first sentence interesting functions transitively as a nonfinite verb that takes the object him, thereby forming the phrase interesting him, which constitutes an adjectival phrase modifying subject. In the second sentence interesting functions non-transitively; it instead acts as a prepositive adjective that can be modified by typical adverbs such as very or quite (or a prefix such as un-). Similar examples are "interested people", "a frightened rabbit", "fallen leaves", "meat-eating animals".
Old English present participles were marked with an ending in -ende (or -iende for verbs whose infinitives ended in -ian).
Some grammars further distinguish passive participles[10] as often associated with passive voice versus active participles[11] as often associated with e.g. the present progressive tense, but such linguistic distinctions are neither recognized nor employed on a universal basis.
πολλὰ καὶ φύσει καὶ ἐπιστήμῃ δεῖ τὸν εὖ στρατηγήσοντα ἔχειν
μετοχή. Liddell, Henry George; Scott, Robert; A Greek–English Lexicon at the Perseus Project
"he who intends to be a good general must have a great deal of ability and knowledge"
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Past participle Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster".
Present active participle: formed by dropping the -ons of the nous form of the present tense of a verb (except with être and avoir) and then adding ant: marchant "walking", étant "being", ayant "having".
In Cornish, an equivalent present participle construction to English is formed by using ow (owth before vowels) with a verbal noun, e.g. Yma an den ow hwerthin ("The man is laughing"), and den ow hwerthin ("a laughing man"). Like Breton but unlike Welsh, Cornish also has verbal adjectives which are used similarly to English past participles, e.g. dehen molys ("clotted cream"), from the verbal noun mola "to clot".
There are two types of participles in Hindi & Urdu (called together Hindustani), aspectual participles which mark the aspect and non-aspectual participles which do not mark verbal aspect. The table below mentions the different participles present in Hindustani, ɸ denotes the verb root. The aspectual participles can take a few other copulas after them besides the verb honā "to be". Those copular verbs are rêhna "to stay", ānā "to come", jānā "to go".[34]
The dynamic, verbal meaning is more common, and Latin often uses a participle where English might use a simple verb.
it is unclear whether "I" or "they" were hiding in the closet. In Polish there is a clear distinction:
Ha escrito una carta. "She (he, it) has written a letter."
Subbarao, K.; Arora, Harbir (2009-01-01). "The Conjunctive Participle in Dakkhini Hindi-Urdu: Making the Best of Both Worlds*". 70: 359–386. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
In Norwegian, the present participle may be used to form adjectives or adverbs denoting the possibility or convenience of performing the action prescribed by the verb. For example:
The following table summarises some of the uses of participles in English:
perfect adverbial participle (imiesłów przysłówkowy uprzedni): zrobiwszy – "having done" (formed in virtually all cases off verbs in their perfective forms, here denoted by the prefix z-)
Esperanto has six different participle conjugations; active and passive for past, present and future. The participles are formed as follows:
In Middle English, the form of the present participle varied across regions: -ende (southwest, southeast, Midlands), -inde (southwest, southeast), -and (north), -inge (southeast). The last is the one that became standard, falling together with the suffix -ing used to form verbal nouns. See -ing (etymology).
List of English simple past and past participle verb forms from myenglishteacher.net
The subject interesting him at the moment is Greek history.
A participle can have a descriptive meaning like an adjective, or a more dynamic meaning like a verb. Thus in the following sentence the participle strīctō "drawn" is better taken as describing an action ("he drew his sword" or "after drawing his sword") rather than as describing the sword ("with a drawn sword"):
The present participle forms the progressive aspect with the auxiliary verb be:
Znalazłem ich chowających się w szafie. – chowających is an active adjectival participle agreeing grammatically with the object ("them")
^ cf. Wheelock, pp. 106ff and 112 note; Allen & Greenough, p. 315.
In linguistics, a participle (from Latinparticipium 'a sharing, partaking'; abbr. PTCP) is a nonfinite verb form that has some of the characteristics and functions of both verbs and adjectives.[1] More narrowly, participle has been defined as "a word derived from a verb and used as an adjective, as in a laughing face".[2]
Participles can be used adjectivally (i.e. without characteristics of canonical verbs) as attributive adjectives. They then take neither object complements nor modifiers that are typical of canonical verbs, but they are capable of being modified by adverbs such as very or slightly. The difference is illustrated by the following examples:
Like Arabic, Hebrew has two types of participles (בינוני bênônî): an active participle (בינוני פועל bênônî pô‘ēl) and a passive participle (בינוני פעול bênônî pā‘ûl). These participles are inflected for gender and number, but not case, unlike Arabic. The active participle takes a variety of syntactic roles, such as a verb in present tense, a noun, and an adjective.[citation needed]
perfect participle: supine stem + -us, -a, -um; e.g. lēctus "read (by someone)"
pollà kaì phúsei kaì epistḗmēi deî tòn eû stratēgḗsonta ékhein
Macedonian has completely lost or transformed the participles of Common Slavic, unlike the other Slavic languages. The following points may be noted:[41]
resultative participle: this has transformed into a verbal l-form (глаголска л-форма). It is not a participle since it doesn't function attributively.
Passive perfect participle: étant vendu "being sold, having been sold"
A window broken by the wind (A window that was broken by the wind).
The bus has gone. (Here gone is an active past participle).
The Russian Participles. Part of “An Interactive On-line Reference Grammar — Russian” by Dr. Robert Beard.
A woman wearing a red hat (A woman who was wearing a red hat).
Montaut, Annie (2018-09-10), "On the nature of the Hindi infinitive: History as an answer to its syntactic behavior?", Trends in Hindi Linguistics, pp. 115–146, ISBN 978-3-11-061079-6, retrieved 2020-07-03
Past passive: слышанный [ˈsɫɨ.ʂɐn.nɨ̞j] "that was heard", "that was being heard"
^ Kiss, Katalin E.; Kiefer, Ferenc; Siptár, Péter (2003). Új magyar nyelvtan. Osiris tankönyvek (in Hungarian) (3. kiadás ed.). Budapest: Osiris Kiadó. ISSN 1218-9855.
Present passive: слышимый [ˈsɫɨ.ʂɨ̞.mɨ̞j] "being heard", "that is heard", "audible"
Adjectival participles (melléknévi igenév) can be one of these three types:
In Old English, past participles of Germanic strong verbs were marked with a ge- prefix, as are most strong and weak past participles in Dutch and German today, and often by a vowel change in the stem. Those of weak verbs were marked by the ending -d, with or without an epenthetic vowel before it. Modern English past participles derive from these forms (although the ge- prefix, which became y- in Middle English, has now been lost — except in some rare dialects such as the Dorset dialect, where it takes the form of a-).
In Spanish, the so-called present or active participle (participio activo or participio de presente) of a verb is traditionally formed with one of the suffixes -ante, -ente or -iente, but modern grammar does not consider it a true participle, as such forms usually have the meaning of simple adjectives or nouns: e.g. amante "loving" or "lover", viviente "living" or "live".
He shot the man, killing him (He shot the man and killed him).
Había escrito una carta. "She (he, it) had written a letter."
^ Crystal, David. (2008). A Dictionary of Linguistics and Phonetics (6th ed.). Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing.
The past participle, also sometimes called the passive or perfect participle, is identical to the past tense form (ending in -ed) in the case of regular verbs, for example "loaded", "boiled", "mounted", but takes various forms in the case of irregular verbs, such as done, sung, written, broken, understood, put, gone, etc.
The participles are marked in bold. The first example involves a present participle and the two latter examples involves a past participle. All present participles end with an -ande suffix.
^ Campbell, George L. (1995). Compendium of the World's Languages. Great Britain: Routledge. pp. 225–229. ISBN 0-415-11392-X.
Participle suffixes, like many other suffixes in Turkish, change according to the vowel harmony and sandhi.
Cross-linguistically, participles may have a range of functions apart from adjectival modification. In European and Indian languages, the past participle is used to form the passive voice. In English, participles are also associated with periphrastic verb forms (continuous and perfect) and are widely used in adverbial clauses. In non-Indo-European languages, ‘participle’ has been applied to forms that are alternatively regarded as converbs (see Sireniki Eskimo below), gerunds, gerundives, transgressives, and nominalised verbs in complement clauses. As a result, ‘participles’ have come to be associated with a broad variety of syntactic constructions.
passive adjectival participle (imiesłów przymiotnikowy bierny): robiony – "being done" (can only be formed off transitive verbs)
^ Hewings, Martin. (2005). Future continuous and future perfect (continuous). In Advanced Grammar in Use (2nd ed.), p. 22. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
^ Shapiro, Michael C. (2003). A Primer of Modern Standard Hindi. New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass Publishers Pvt Ltd. p. 116. ISBN 81-208-0508-9.
^ Menovshchikov, G.A.: Language of Sireniki Eskimos. Phonetics, morphology, texts and vocabulary. Academy of Sciences of the USSR, Moscow • Leningrad, 1964. Original data: Г.А. Меновщиков: Язык сиреникских эскимосов. Фонетика, очерк морфологии, тексты и словарь. Академия Наук СССР. Институт языкознания. Москва • Ленинград, 1964
The past participle forms the perfect aspect with the auxiliary verb have:
An informal and unofficial addition to these six are the participles for conditional forms, which use -unt- and -ut-.For example, parolunto refers to someone who would speak (or would have spoken), and a leguta libro is a book that would be read (or have been read). These unofficial participle forms are however very rarely used in practice.
^ Participles – Present, Past and Perfect. Lingolia. Retrieved from https://english.lingolia.com/en/grammar/verbs/participles
Present perfect participle: ayant appelé "having called", étant mort "being dead"
The Arabic verb has two participles: an active participle (’ism al-fā‘il اسم الفاعل) and a passive participle (’ism al-maf‘ūl اسم المفعول), and the form of the participle is predictable by inspection of the dictionary form of the verb. These participles are inflected for gender, number and case, but not person. Arabic participles are employed syntactically in a variety of ways: as nouns, as adjectives or even as verbs. Their uses vary across varieties of Arabic. In general the active participle describes a property of the syntactic subject of the verb from which it derives, whilst the passive participles describes the object. For example, from the verb كتب kataba, the active participle is kātib كاتب and the passive participle is maktūb مكتوب. Roughly these translate to "writing" and "written" respectively. However, they have different, derived lexical uses. كاتب kātib is further lexicalized as "writer", "author" and مكتوب maktūb as "letter".
participium. Charlton T. Lewis and Charles Short. A Latin Dictionary on Perseus Project.
future participle: supine stem + -ūrus, -ūra, -ūrum; e.g. lēctūrus"going to read", "due to read"
I saw John eating his dinner. (Here eating is an active present participle).
The perfect and future participles can also be used, with or without the verb esse "to be", in indirect speech clauses:
In Welsh, the effect of a participle in the active voice is constructed by yn followed by the verb-noun (for the present participle) and wedi followed by the verb-noun (for the past participle). There is no mutation in either case. In the passive voice, participles are usually replaced by a compound phrase such as wedi cael ei/eu ("having got his/her/their ...ing") in modern Welsh and by the impersonal form in literary Welsh.
Sireniki Eskimo language, an extinct Eskimo–Aleut language, has separate sets of adverbial participles and adjectival participles. Different from in English, adverbial participles are conjugated to reflect the person and number of their implicit subjects; hence, while in English a sentence like "If I were a marksman, I would kill walruses" requires two full clauses (to distinguish the two verbs' different subjects), in Sireniki Eskimo one of these may be replaced with an adverbial participle (since its conjugation indicates the subject).
Crystal, David. (2008). A Dictionary of Linguistics and Phonetics (6th ed.). Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing.
Imperfect: siet (hurry) – sietve (hurrying, i.e. in a hurrying manner)
Participles from the American Heritage Book of English Usage (1996).
^ participium. Charlton T. Lewis and Charles Short. A Latin Dictionary on Perseus Project.
^ Crystal, David. (2008). A Dictionary of Linguistics and Phonetics (6th ed.), pp. 351-352. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing.
Crystal, David. (2008). A Dictionary of Linguistics and Phonetics (6th ed.), pp. 351-352. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing.
Participles – Present, Past and Perfect. Lingolia. Retrieved from https://english.lingolia.com/en/grammar/verbs/participles
Quirk, R; Greenbaum, S; Leech, G.; Svartvik, J. (1972). A Grammar of Contemporary English. Longman.
^ Shagal (Krapivina), Future participles in Russian: Expanding the participial paradigm
For more details on uses of participles and other parts of verbs in English, see Uses of English verb forms, including the sections on the present participle and past participle.
4.1Germanic languages																								4.1.1Early English																											4.1.2Middle English																											4.1.3Modern English																											4.1.4Scandinavian languages
There is a form of the participle for every combination of aspect (present, aorist, perfect, future) and voice (active, middle, passive).All participles are based on their finite forms. Here are the masculine nominative singular forms for a thematic and an athematic verb:
In Classical Arabic these participles do not participate in verbal constructions with auxiliaries the same way as their English counterparts do, and rarely take on a verbal meaning in a sentence (a notable exception being participles derived from motion verbs as well as participles in Qur'anic Arabic).In certain dialects of Arabic however, it is much more common for the participles, especially the active participle, to have verbal force in the sentence. For example, in dialects of the Levant, the active participle is a structure that describes the state of the syntactic subject after the action of the verb from which it derives has taken place. ʼĀkil, the active participle of ʼakala ("to eat"), describes one's state after having eaten something.Therefore, it can be used in analogous way to the English present perfect (for example, ʼAnā ʼākil انا آكل meaning "I have eaten", "I have just eaten" or "I have already eaten"). Other verbs, such as rāḥa راح ("to go") give a participle (rāyiḥ رايح), which has a progressive ("is going…") meaning. The exact tense or continuity of these participles is therefore determined by the nature of the specific verb (especially its lexical aspect and its transitivity) and the syntactic/semantic context of the utterance. What ties them all together is that they describe the subject of the verb from which they derive. The passive participles in certain dialects can be used as a sort of passive voice, but more often than not, are used in their various lexicalized senses as adjectives or nouns.
Additionally, participles that express an adjectivally attributive meaning can be affixed to form adverbs, such as interestingly and excitedly.
These rules hold true for all transitive verbs. Since copular and intransitive verbs do not have passive voice, their participle forms can only be active.
"The Conjunctive Participle in Dakkhini Hindi-Urdu: Making the Best of Both Worlds*"
In Hungarian grammar the infinitive is also considered a kind of participle, namely the noun participle (főnévi igenév).
The Ancient Greek participle shares in the properties of adjectives and verbs. Like an adjective, it changes form for gender, case, and number. Like a verb, it has tense and voice, is modified by adverbs, and can take verb arguments, including an object.[33] Participles are quite numerous in Ancient Greek: a non-defective verb has as many as ten participles.
Future participles formed from perfective verbs are not considered a part of standard language.[40]
"A comparative study of participles, converbs and absolute constructions in Hindi and Medieval Rajasthani"
The man standing over there is my uncle (The man who is standing over there is my uncle).
Because a participle is an adjective as well as a verb, just like any other Latin adjective its ending changes according to the noun it describes. So when the noun is masculine, the participle must be masculine; when the noun is in the accusative (object) case, the participle is also in the accusative case; when the noun has plural endings, the participle also has plural endings. Thus a simple participle such as frāctus "broken" can change to frācta, frāctum, frāctī, frāctō and so on, according to its gender, number, and case.
When the meaning is "The practice of flying a plane is dangerous," flying functions as a gerund; when the danger concerns "Planes that fly" or "Planes when they are flying" (i.e., in contrast to grounded planes), flying is being used adjectivally as a participle. For more on the distinctions between these uses of the -ing verb form, see -ing: uses.
"On the nature of the Hindi infinitive: History as an answer to its syntactic behavior?"
Due to the distinction between adjectival and adverbial participles, in Polish it is practically impossible to make a dangling participle in the classical English meaning of the term. For instance, in the sentence:
The present participle often describes the circumstances attending the main verb. A typical example is:
However, many modern Latin grammars treat the gerundive as a separate part of speech.[25]
4Indo-European languages											Toggle Indo-European languages subsection																					4.1Germanic languages																								4.1.1Early English																											4.1.2Middle English																											4.1.3Modern English																											4.1.4Scandinavian languages																														4.2Latin and Romance languages																								4.2.1Latin																											4.2.2French																											4.2.3Spanish																														4.3Hellenic languages																								4.3.1Ancient Greek																														4.4Indo-Aryan languages																								4.4.1Hindi & Urdu																											4.4.2Sanskrit																														4.5Celtic languages																								4.5.1Cornish																											4.5.2Welsh																														4.6Slavic languages																								4.6.1Polish																											4.6.2Russian																											4.6.3Bulgarian																											4.6.4Macedonian																														4.7Baltic languages																								4.7.1Lithuanian
Ernest De Witt Burton: Moods and Tenses of New Testament Greek. The adverbial participle
Noam Chomsky, Aspects of the Theory of Syntax (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,1965), 21.
Broadly speaking, the project was successful. (See also dangling participle.)
^ Shapiro, Michael C. (1989). A Primer of Modern Standard Hindi. New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass. pp. 216–246. ISBN 81-208-0475-9.
Details of participle formation can be found under English verbs and List of English irregular verbs.
In particular, Greek and Latin participles agree with the nouns that they modify in gender, number and case, but are also conjugated for tense and voice and can take prepositional and adverbial modifiers.
Shapiro, Michael C. (2003). A Primer of Modern Standard Hindi. New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass Publishers Pvt Ltd. p. 116. ISBN 81-208-0508-9.
^ Montaut, Annie (2018-09-10), "On the nature of the Hindi infinitive: History as an answer to its syntactic behavior?", Trends in Hindi Linguistics, pp. 115–146, ISBN 978-3-11-061079-6, retrieved 2020-07-03
present adverbial participle (imiesłów przysłówkowy współczesny): robiąc – "doing", "while doing"
the "inner circle" countries have large communities of native speakers of English,
Flemming, Edward; Johnson, Stephanie (2007). "Rosa's roses: reduced vowels in American English" (PDF). Journal of the International Phonetic Association. 37 (1): 83–96. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.536.1989. doi:10.1017/S0025100306002817. S2CID 145535175. Archived (PDF) from the original on 19 September 2018. Retrieved 2 September 2018.
There is complex dialectal variation in words with the open front and open back vowels /æ ɑː ɒ ɔː/. These four vowels are only distinguished in RP, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. In GA, these vowels merge to three /æ ɑ ɔ/,[171] and in Canadian English, they merge to two /æ ɑ/.[172] In addition, the words that have each vowel vary by dialect. The table "Dialects and open vowels" shows this variation with lexical sets in which these sounds occur.
International English: A Guide to the Varieties of Standard English
Old English is essentially a distinct language from Modern English and is virtually impossible for 21st-century unstudied English-speakers to understand. Its grammar was similar to that of modern German: nouns, adjectives, pronouns, and verbs had many more inflectional endings and forms, and word order was much freer than in Modern English. Modern English has case forms in pronouns (he, him, his) and has a few verb inflections (speak, speaks, speaking, spoke, spoken), but Old English had case endings in nouns as well, and verbs had more person and number endings.[39][40][41] Its closest relative is Old Frisian, but even some centuries after the Anglo-Saxon migration, Old English retained considerable mutual intelligibility with other Germanic varieties. Even in the 9th and 10th centuries, amidst the Danelaw and other Viking invasions, there is historical evidence that Old Norse and Old English retained considerable mutual intelligibility.[42] Theoretically, as late as the 900s AD, a commoner from England could hold a conversation with a commoner from Scandinavia. Research continues into the details of the myriad tribes in peoples in England and Scandinavia and the mutual contacts between them.[42]
Sweet 2014, p. 52: "But in that special class of nouns called personal pronouns we find a totally different system of case-inflection, namely, a nominative case (he) and an objective case (him)"
Horobin, Simon. "Chaucer's Middle English". The Open Access Companion to the Canterbury Tales. Louisiana State University. Archived from the original on 3 December 2019. Retrieved 24 November 2019. The only appearances of their and them in Chaucer's works are in the Reeve's Tale, where they form part of the Northern dialect spoken by the two Cambridge students, Aleyn and John, demonstrating that at this time they were still perceived to be Northernisms
"they". Oxford English Dictionary (Online ed.). Oxford University Press. (Subscription or participating institution membership required.)
Campbell, Alistair (1959). Old English Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-811943-2.
In RP, vowel length is phonemic; long vowels are marked with a triangular colon ⟨ː⟩ in the table above, such as the vowel of need [niːd] as opposed to bid [bɪd]. In GA, vowel length is non-distinctive.
^ Wells, John C. (8 February 2001). "IPA transcription systems for English". University College London. Archived from the original on 19 September 2018. Retrieved 3 September 2018.
English Next: Why global English may mean the end of 'English as a Foreign Language'
Gordon, Elizabeth; Campbell, Lyle; Hay, Jennifer; Maclagan, Margaret; Sudbury, Angela; Trudgill, Peter (2004). New Zealand English: its origins and evolution. Studies in English Language. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-10895-9.
The next period in the history of English was Early Modern English (1500–1700). Early Modern English was characterised by the Great Vowel Shift (1350–1700), inflectional simplification, and linguistic standardisation.
Although in most countries English is not an official language, it is currently the language most often taught as a foreign language.[59][60] In the countries of the EU, English is the most widely spoken foreign language in nineteen of the twenty-five member states where it is not an official language (that is, the countries other than Ireland and Malta). In a 2012 official Eurobarometer poll (conducted when the UK was still a member of the EU), 38 percent of the EU respondents outside the countries where English is an official language said they could speak English well enough to have a conversation in that language. The next most commonly mentioned foreign language, French (which is the most widely known foreign language in the UK and Ireland), could be used in conversation by 12 percent of respondents.[128]
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in English:[305]
Graddol, David (2010). English Next India: The future of English in India (PDF). The British Council. ISBN 978-0-86355-627-2. Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 February 2015. Retrieved 7 February 2015.Rama Mathew; Shefali Srivastava (July 2011). "English Next India: The Future of English in India". ELT Journal (Review). 65 (3): 356–359. doi:10.1093/elt/ccr034.
Both yes–no questions and wh-questions in English are mostly formed using subject–auxiliary inversion (Am I going tomorrow?, Where can we eat?), which may require do-support (Do you like her?, Where did he go?). In most cases, interrogative words (wh-words; e.g. what, who, where, when, why, how) appear in a fronted position. For example, in the question What did you see?, the word what appears as the first constituent despite being the grammatical object of the sentence. (When the wh-word is the subject or forms part of the subject, no inversion occurs: Who saw the cat?.) Prepositional phrases can also be fronted when they are the question's theme, e.g. To whose house did you go last night?. The personal interrogative pronoun who is the only interrogative pronoun to still show inflection for case, with the variant whom serving as the objective case form, although this form may be going out of use in many contexts.[217]
Robinson, Orrin (1992). Old English and Its Closest Relatives: A Survey of the Earliest Germanic Languages. Stanford University Press. ISBN 978-0-8047-2221-6. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
Lawler, J. (2006). "Punctuation".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 290–291. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/04573-9. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
The vowel /ə/ only occurs in unstressed syllables and is more open in quality in stem-final positions.[152][153] Some dialects do not contrast /ɪ/ and /ə/ in unstressed positions, so that rabbit and abbot rhyme and Lenin and Lennon are homophonous, a dialect feature called weak vowel merger.[154] GA /ɜr/ and /ər/ are realised as an r-coloured vowel [ɚ], as in further [ˈfɚðɚ] (phonemically /ˈfɜrðər/), which in RP is realised as [ˈfəːðə] (phonemically /ˈfɜːðə/).[155]
Estimates of the numbers of second language and foreign-language English speakers vary greatly from 470 million to more than 1 billion, depending on how proficiency is defined.[18] Linguist David Crystal estimates that non-native speakers now outnumber native speakers by a ratio of 3 to 1.[80] In Kachru's three-circles model, the "outer circle" countries are countries such as the Philippines,[81] Jamaica,[82] India, Pakistan, Singapore,[83] Malaysia and Nigeria[84][85] with a much smaller proportion of native speakers of English but much use of English as a second language for education, government, or domestic business, and its routine use for school instruction and official interactions with the government.[86]
Word on the Street: Debunking the Myth of a "Pure" Standard English
"Estuary English Q and A – JCW". Phon.ucl.ac.uk. Archived from the original on 11 January 2010. Retrieved 16 August 2010.
Graddol, David; Leith, Dick; Swann, Joan; Rhys, Martin; Gillen, Julia, eds. (2007). Changing English. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-37679-2. Archived from the original on 24 February 2015. Retrieved 11 February 2015.
Passive constructions also use auxiliary verbs. A passive construction rephrases an active construction in such a way that the object of the active phrase becomes the subject of the passive phrase, and the subject of the active phrase is either omitted or demoted to a role as an oblique argument introduced in a prepositional phrase. They are formed by using the past participle either with the auxiliary verb to be or to get, although not all varieties of English allow the use of passives with get. For example, putting the sentence she sees him into the passive becomes he is seen (by her), or he gets seen (by her).[216]
Lim, L.; Ansaldo, U. (2006). "Singapore: Language Situation".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of Language & Linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 387–389. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/01701-6. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
^ a b c d Daniels & Bright 1996, p. 653.
Formation of new words, called neologisms, based on Greek and/or Latin roots (for example television or optometry) is a highly productive process in English and in most modern European languages, so much so that it is often difficult to determine in which language a neologism originated. For this reason, American lexicographer Philip Gove attributed many such words to the "international scientific vocabulary" (ISV) when compiling Webster's Third New International Dictionary (1961). Another active word-formation process in English are acronyms,[228] words formed by pronouncing as a single word abbreviations of longer phrases, e.g. NATO, laser.
English has also borrowed many words directly from Latin, the ancestor of the Romance languages, during all stages of its development.[226][224] Many of these words had earlier been borrowed into Latin from Greek. Latin or Greek are still highly productive sources of stems used to form vocabulary of subjects learned in higher education such as the sciences, philosophy, and mathematics.[235] English continues to gain new loanwords and calques ("loan translations") from languages all over the world, and words from languages other than the ancestral Anglo-Saxon language make up about 60% of the vocabulary of English.[236]
Origin of the Anglo-Saxon Race – A Study of the Settlement of England and the Tribal Origin of the Old English People
English has two primary tenses, past (preterite) and non-past. The preterite is inflected by using the preterite form of the verb, which for the regular verbs includes the suffix -ed, and for the strong verbs either the suffix -t or a change in the stem vowel. The non-past form is unmarked except in the third person singular, which takes the suffix -s.[197]
Nigerian English is a dialect of English spoken in Nigeria.[297] It is based on British English, but in recent years, because of influence from the United States, some words of American English origin have made it into Nigerian English. Additionally, some new words and collocations have emerged from the language, which come from the need to express concepts specific to the culture of the nation (e.g. senior wife). Over 150 million Nigerians speak English.[298]
Bammesberger, Alfred (1992). "Chapter 2: The Place of English in Germanic and Indo-European".In Hogg, Richard M. (ed.). The Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. 1: The Beginnings to 1066. Cambridge University Press. pp. 26–66. ISBN 978-0-521-26474-7.
Kastovsky, Dieter (2006). "Chapter 4: Vocabulary".In Denison, David; Hogg, Richard M. (eds.). A History of the English language. Cambridge University Press. pp. 199–270. ISBN 978-0-521-71799-1.
English has ceased to be an "English language" in the sense of belonging only to people who are ethnically English.[105][106] Use of English is growing country-by-country internally and for international communication. Most people learn English for practical rather than ideological reasons.[107] Many speakers of English in Africa have become part of an "Afro-Saxon" language community that unites Africans from different countries.[108]
Thomas, Erik R. (2008). "Rural Southern white accents".In Edgar W. Schneider (ed.). Varieties of English. Vol. 2: The Americas and the Caribbean. de Gruyter. pp. 87–114. doi:10.1515/9783110208405.1.87. ISBN 978-3-11-020840-5.
English syntax relies on auxiliary verbs for many functions including the expression of tense, aspect, and mood. Auxiliary verbs form main clauses, and the main verbs function as heads of a subordinate clause of the auxiliary verb. For example, in the sentence the dog did not find its bone, the clause find its bone is the complement of the negated verb did not. Subject–auxiliary inversion is used in many constructions, including focus, negation, and interrogative constructions.
Countries with large communities of native speakers of English (the inner circle) include Britain, the United States, Australia, Canada, Ireland, and New Zealand, where the majority speaks English, and South Africa, where a significant minority speaks English. The countries with the most native English speakers are, in descending order, the United States (at least 231 million),[71] the United Kingdom (60 million),[72][73][74] Canada (19 million),[75] Australia (at least 17 million),[76] South Africa (4.8 million),[77] Ireland (4.2 million), and New Zealand (3.7 million).[78] In these countries, children of native speakers learn English from their parents, and local people who speak other languages and new immigrants learn English to communicate in their neighbourhoods and workplaces.[79] The inner-circle countries provide the base from which English spreads to other countries in the world.[70]
"Nigerian English". Encarta. Microsoft. Archived from the original on 9 September 2010. Retrieved 17 July 2012.
Burnley, David (1992). "LEXIS AND SEMANTICS". In N. Blake (Ed.), The Cambridge History of the English Language (The Cambridge History of the English Language, pp. 409-499). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/CHOL9780521264754.006: "Latin and French each account for a little more than 28 per cent of the lexis recorded in the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary (Finkenstaedt & Wolff 1973)".
"Countries in which English Language is a Mandatory or an Optional Subject". www.uwinnipeg.ca. The University of Winnipeg. Archived from the original on 31 October 2022. Retrieved 30 October 2022.
International communities such as international business people may use English as an auxiliary language, with an emphasis on vocabulary suitable for their domain of interest. This has led some scholars to develop the study of English as an auxiliary language. The trademarked Globish uses a relatively small subset of English vocabulary (about 1500 words, designed to represent the highest use in international business English) in combination with the standard English grammar.[132] Other examples include Simple English.
^ Adegbija, Efurosibina (1989). "Lexico-semantic variation in Nigerian English". World Englishes. 8 (2): 165–177. doi:10.1111/j.1467-971X.1989.tb00652.x.
Romaine, Suzanne (1999). "Chapter 1: Introduction".In Romaine, Suzanne (ed.). Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. IV: 1776–1997. Cambridge University Press. pp. 01–56. doi:10.1017/CHOL9780521264778.002. ISBN 978-0-521-26477-8.
Blench, R.; Spriggs, Matthew (1999). Archaeology and Language: Correlating Archaeological and Linguistic Hypotheses. Routledge. pp. 285–286. ISBN 978-0-415-11761-6. Archived from the original on 1 August 2020. Retrieved 2 June 2020.
Wolfram, W. (2006). "Variation and Language: Overview".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 333–341. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/04256-5. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
International Maritime Organization (2011). "IMO Standard Marine Communication Phrases". Archived from the original on 3 October 2011. Retrieved 16 December 2014.
^ Baker, Colin (1998). Encyclopedia of Bilingualism and Bilingual Education. Multilingual Matters. p. 311. ISBN 978-1-85359-362-8. Archived from the original on 20 January 2021. Retrieved 27 August 2017.
Separate from GA are American dialects with clearly distinct sound systems, historically including Southern American English, English of the coastal Northeast (famously including Eastern New England English and New York City English), and African-American Vernacular English, all of which are historically non-rhotic. Canadian English, except for the Atlantic provinces and perhaps Quebec, may be classified under GA as well, but it often shows the raising of the vowels /aɪ/ and /aʊ/ before voiceless consonants, as well as distinct norms for written and pronunciation standards.[276]
Rubino, C. (2006). "Philippines: Language Situation".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 323–326. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/01736-3. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
2History											Toggle History subsection																					2.1Proto-Germanic to Old English																											2.2Middle English																											2.3Early Modern English																											2.4Spread of Modern English
Toon, Thomas E. (1982). "Variation in Contemporary American English".In Bailey, Richard W.; Görlach, Manfred (eds.). English as a World Language. University of Michigan Press. pp. 210–250. ISBN 978-3-12-533872-2.
Sheidlower, Jesse (10 April 2006). "How many words are there in English?". Slate Magazine. Archived from the original on 16 September 2011. Retrieved 2 April 2015. The problem with trying to number the words in any language is that it's very hard to agree on the basics. For example, what is a word?
Ryan, Camille (August 2013). "Language Use in the United States: 2011" (PDF). American Community Survey Reports. p. 1. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 February 2016. Retrieved 16 December 2014.
^ "Indiaspeak: English is our 2nd language – The Times of India". The Times of India. 14 March 2010. Archived from the original on 22 April 2016. Retrieved 5 January 2016.
Abercrombie, D.; Daniels, Peter T. (2006). "Spelling Reform Proposals: English".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 72–75. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/04878-1. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Most English dialects share the same 24 consonant phonemes. The consonant inventory shown below is valid for California English,[144] and for RP.[145]
Department for Communities and Local Government (United Kingdom) (27 February 2007). Second Report submitted by the United Kingdom pursuant to article 25, paragraph 1 of the framework convention for the protection of national minorities (PDF) (Report). Council of Europe. ACFC/SR/II(2007)003 rev1. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 6 March 2015.
Dehaene, Stanislas (2009). Reading in the Brain: The Science and Evolution of a Human Invention. Viking. ISBN 978-0-670-02110-9. Archived from the original on 5 September 2015. Retrieved 3 April 2015.
Harbert, Wayne (2007). The Germanic Languages. Cambridge Language Surveys. Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/CBO9780511755071. ISBN 978-0-521-01511-0. JSTOR 40492966. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 26 February 2015.
Lalitha Eapen (January 2007). "English Next". ELT Journal (Review). 61 (1): 81–83. doi:10.1093/elt/ccl050.
Modern English syntax language is moderately analytic.[206] It has developed features such as modal verbs and word order as resources for conveying meaning. Auxiliary verbs mark constructions such as questions, negative polarity, the passive voice and progressive aspect.
Many users of English in the expanding circle use it to communicate with other people from the expanding circle, so that interaction with native speakers of English plays no part in their decision to use the language.[90] Non-native varieties of English are widely used for international communication, and speakers of one such variety often encounter features of other varieties.[91] Very often today a conversation in English anywhere in the world may include no native speakers of English at all, even while including speakers from several different countries. This is particularly true of the shared vocabulary of mathematics and the sciences.[92]
English nouns are only inflected for number and possession. New nouns can be formed through derivation or compounding. They are semantically divided into proper nouns (names) and common nouns. Common nouns are in turn divided into concrete and abstract nouns, and grammatically into count nouns and mass nouns.[177]
^ "How English evolved into a global language". BBC. 20 December 2010. Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 9 August 2015.
Statistics Canada (22 August 2014). "Population by mother tongue and age groups (total), 2011 counts, for Canada, provinces and territories". Archived from the original on 26 July 2018. Retrieved 25 March 2015.
"Indiaspeak: English is our 2nd language – The Times of India"
Accents of English from Around the World (University of Edinburgh) Sound files comparing how 110 words are pronounced in 50 English accents from around the world
Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency 2012, Table KS207NI: Main Language.
"Finite and Nonfinite Clauses". MyEnglishGrammar.com. Archived from the original on 7 December 2019. Retrieved 7 December 2019.
Mair, Christian (2006). Twentieth-century English: History, variation and standardization. Cambridge University Press.
Bosworth, Joseph; Toller, T. Northcote (1921). "Engla land". An Anglo-Saxon Dictionary (Online). Charles University. Archived from the original on 21 December 2012. Retrieved 6 March 2015.
Mair, C.; Leech, G. (2006). "14 Current Changes in English Syntax". The handbook of English linguistics.
An English syllable includes a syllable nucleus consisting of a vowel sound. Syllable onset and coda (start and end) are optional. A syllable can start with up to three consonant sounds, as in sprint /sprɪnt/, and end with up to five, as in (for some dialects) angsts /aŋksts/. This gives an English syllable the following structure, (CCC)V(CCCCC), where C represents a consonant and V a vowel; the word strengths /strɛŋkθs/ is thus close to the most complex syllable possible in English. The consonants that may appear together in onsets or codas are restricted, as is the order in which they may appear. Onsets can only have four types of consonant clusters: a stop and approximant, as in play; a voiceless fricative and approximant, as in fly or sly; s and a voiceless stop, as in stay; and s, a voiceless stop, and an approximant, as in string.[156] Clusters of nasal and stop are only allowed in codas. Clusters of obstruents always agree in voicing, and clusters of sibilants and of plosives with the same point of articulation are prohibited. Furthermore, several consonants have limited distributions: /h/ can only occur in syllable-initial position, and /ŋ/ only in syllable-final position.[157]
^ "Cases of Nouns and Pronouns". Guide to Grammar and Writing. Archived from the original on 16 November 2019. Retrieved 24 November 2019.
The Great Vowel Shift affected the stressed long vowels of Middle English. It was a chain shift, meaning that each shift triggered a subsequent shift in the vowel system. Mid and open vowels were raised, and close vowels were broken into diphthongs. For example, the word bite was originally pronounced as the word beet is today, and the second vowel in the word about was pronounced as the word boot is today. The Great Vowel Shift explains many irregularities in spelling since English retains many spellings from Middle English, and it also explains why English vowel letters have very different pronunciations from the same letters in other languages.[50][51]
Modern English grammar is the result of a gradual change from a typical Indo-European dependent-marking pattern with a rich inflectional morphology and relatively free word order to a mostly analytic pattern with little inflection and a fairly fixed subject–verb–object word order.[14] Modern English relies more on auxiliary verbs and word order for the expression of complex tenses, aspects and moods, as well as passive constructions, interrogatives, and some negation.
The spelling system, or orthography, of English is multi-layered and complex, with elements of French, Latin, and Greek spelling on top of the native Germanic system.[243] Further complications have arisen through sound changes with which the orthography has not kept pace.[50] Compared to European languages for which official organisations have promoted spelling reforms, English has spelling that is a less consistent indicator of pronunciation, and standard spellings of words that are more difficult to guess from knowing how a word is pronounced.[244] There are also systematic spelling differences between British and American English. These situations have prompted proposals for spelling reform in English.[245]
Watts, Richard J. (2011). Language Myths and the History of English. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195327601.001.0001. ISBN 978-0-19-532760-1. Archived from the original on 18 March 2015. Retrieved 10 March 2015.Larry LaFond (6 April 2012). "Review: Applied Ling.; General Ling.; Ling. Theories; Socioling.: Watts (2011)". Linguist List. Archived from the original on 10 March 2022. Retrieved 10 March 2022.
Lanham, L. W. (1982). "English in South Africa".In Bailey, Richard W.; Görlach, Manfred (eds.). English as a World Language. University of Michigan Press. pp. 324–352. ISBN 978-3-12-533872-2.
Kachru based his model on the history of how English spread in different countries, how users acquire English, and the range of uses English has in each country. The three circles change membership over time.[70]
"Macquarie Dictionary". Australia's National Dictionary & Thesaurus Online | Macquarie Dictionary. Macmillan Publishers Group Australia. 2015. Archived from the original on 21 July 2019. Retrieved 15 February 2015.
Due to its status as an international language, English adopts foreign words quickly, and borrows vocabulary from many other sources. Early studies of English vocabulary by lexicographers, the scholars who formally study vocabulary, compile dictionaries, or both, were impeded by a lack of comprehensive data on actual vocabulary in use from good-quality linguistic corpora,[225] collections of actual written texts and spoken passages. Many statements published before the end of the 20th century about the growth of English vocabulary over time, the dates of first use of various words in English, and the sources of English vocabulary will have to be corrected as new computerised analysis of linguistic corpus data becomes available.[224][226]
Romaine 1999, p. 2: "Other changes such as the spread and regularisation of do support began in the thirteenth century and were more or less complete in the nineteenth. Although do coexisted with the simple verb forms in negative statements from the early ninth century, obligatoriness was not complete until the nineteenth. The increasing use of do periphrasis coincides with the fixing of SVO word order. Not surprisingly, do is first widely used in interrogatives, where the word order is disrupted, and then later spread to negatives."
Lass, Roger (2002), "South African English",in Mesthrie, Rajend (ed.), Language in South Africa, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-79105-2
The Indian linguist Braj Kachru distinguished countries where English is spoken with a three circles model.[69] In his model,
^ "Welcome, singular "they"". American Psychological Association. Archived from the original on 14 February 2020. Retrieved 24 November 2021.
^ "Estuary English Q and A – JCW". Phon.ucl.ac.uk. Archived from the original on 11 January 2010. Retrieved 16 August 2010.
First, the waves of Norse colonisation of northern parts of the British Isles in the 8th and 9th centuries put Old English into intense contact with Old Norse, a North Germanic language. Norse influence was strongest in the north-eastern varieties of Old English spoken in the Danelaw area around York, which was the centre of Norse colonisation; today these features are still particularly present in Scots and Northern English. However, the centre of norsified English seems to have been in the Midlands around Lindsey, and after 920 CE when Lindsey was reincorporated into the Anglo-Saxon polity, Norse features spread from there into English varieties that had not been in direct contact with Norse speakers. An element of Norse influence that persists in all English varieties today is the group of pronouns beginning with th- (they, them, their) which replaced the Anglo-Saxon pronouns with h- (hie, him, hera).[45]
^ "Nigerian English". Encarta. Microsoft. Archived from the original on 9 September 2010. Retrieved 17 July 2012.
Alcaraz Ariza, M. Á.; Navarro, F. (2006). "Medicine: Use of English".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 752–759. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/02351-8. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Todd, Loreto (1982). "The English language in West Africa".In Bailey, Richard W.; Görlach, Manfred (eds.). English as a World Language. University of Michigan Press. pp. 281–305. ISBN 978-3-12-533872-2.
Wells, John C. (8 February 2001). "IPA transcription systems for English". University College London. Archived from the original on 19 September 2018. Retrieved 3 September 2018.
König, Ekkehard (1994). "17. English".In König, Ekkehard; van der Auwera, Johan (eds.). The Germanic Languages. Routledge Language Family Descriptions. Routledge. pp. 532–562. ISBN 978-0-415-28079-2. JSTOR 4176538. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 26 February 2015.
All sonorants (liquids /l, r/ and nasals /m, n, ŋ/) devoice when following a voiceless obstruent, and they are syllabic when following a consonant at the end of a word.[149]
Many regional international organisations such as the European Free Trade Association, Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN),[60] and Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) set English as their organisation's sole working language even though most members are not countries with a majority of native English speakers. While the European Union (EU) allows member states to designate any of the national languages as an official language of the Union, in practice English is the main working language of EU organisations.[127]
McWhorter, John H. (2001). Word on the Street: Debunking the Myth of a "Pure" Standard English. Basic Books. p. 162. ISBN 978-0-7382-0446-8. Archived from the original on 30 June 2020. Retrieved 22 November 2015.
Stress plays an important role in English. Certain syllables are stressed, while others are unstressed. Stress is a combination of duration, intensity, vowel quality, and sometimes changes in pitch. Stressed syllables are pronounced longer and louder than unstressed syllables, and vowels in unstressed syllables are frequently reduced while vowels in stressed syllables are not.[158] Some words, primarily short function words but also some modal verbs such as can, have weak and strong forms depending on whether they occur in stressed or non-stressed position within a sentence.
"3". The Handbook of World Englishes. Wiley. 2020. p. 45. ISBN 9781119164210. American English has traditionally been perceived as relatively homogeneous, at least in comparison with British dialects... However... others strongly opposed this notion
Focus constructions emphasise a particular piece of new or salient information within a sentence, generally through allocating the main sentence level stress on the focal constituent. For example, the girl was stung by a bee (emphasising it was a bee and not, for example, a wasp that stung her), or The girl was stung by a bee (contrasting with another possibility, for example that it was the boy).[219] Topic and focus can also be established through syntactic dislocation, either preposing or postposing the item to be focused on relative to the main clause. For example, That girl over there, she was stung by a bee, emphasises the girl by preposition, but a similar effect could be achieved by postposition, she was stung by a bee, that girl over there, where reference to the girl is established as an "afterthought".[220]
Post-Imperial English: Status Change in Former British and American Colonies, 1940–1990
Negation is done with the adverb not, which precedes the main verb and follows an auxiliary verb. A contracted form of not -n't can be used as an enclitic attaching to auxiliary verbs and to the copula verb to be. Just as with questions, many negative constructions require the negation to occur with do-support, thus in Modern English I don't know him is the correct answer to the question Do you know him?, but not *I know him not, although this construction may be found in older English.[215]
An exception is found in sentences where one of the constituents is a pronoun, in which case it is doubly marked, both by word order and by case inflection, where the subject pronoun precedes the verb and takes the subjective case form, and the object pronoun follows the verb and takes the objective case form.[209] The example below demonstrates this double marking in a sentence where both object and subject are represented with a third person singular masculine pronoun:
"How many words are there in the English language?". Oxford Dictionaries. Archived from the original on 9 September 2017. Retrieved 13 September 2017.
Fasold, Ralph W.; Connor-Linton, Jeffrey, eds. (2014). An Introduction to Language and Linguistics (Second ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-316-06185-5.
Like Icelandic and Faroese, the development of English in the British Isles isolated it from the continental Germanic languages and influences, and it has since diverged considerably. English is not mutually intelligible with any continental Germanic language, differing in vocabulary, syntax, and phonology, although some of these, such as Dutch or Frisian, do show strong affinities with English, especially with its earlier stages.[23]
Englischmen þeyz hy hadde fram þe bygynnyng þre manner speche, Souþeron, Northeron, and Myddel speche in þe myddel of þe lond, ... Noþeles by comyxstion and mellyng, furst wiþ Danes, and afterward wiþ Normans, in menye þe contray longage ys asperyed, and som vseþ strange wlaffyng, chyteryng, harryng, and garryng grisbytting.Although, from the beginning, Englishmen had three manners of speaking, southern, northern and midlands speech in the middle of the country, ... Nevertheless, through intermingling and mixing, first with Danes and then with Normans, amongst many the country language has arisen, and some use strange stammering, chattering, snarling, and grating gnashing.
Ammon, Ulrich (2008). "Pluricentric and Divided Languages".In Ammon, Ulrich N.; Dittmar, Norbert; Mattheier, Klaus J.;et al. (eds.). Sociolinguistics: An International Handbook of the Science of Language and Society / Soziolinguistik Ein internationales Handbuch zur Wissenschaft vov Sprache and Gesellschaft. Handbooks of Linguistics and Communication Science / Handbücher zur Sprach- und Kommunikationswissenschaft 3/2. Vol. 2 (2nd completely revised and extended ed.). de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-019425-8.
Baugh, Albert C.; Cable, Thomas (2002). A History of the English Language (5th ed.). Longman. ISBN 978-0-13-015166-7.
"The Pedant: The sheer usefulness of singular 'they' is obvious"
^ Romaine 1999, p. 2: "Other changes such as the spread and regularisation of do support began in the thirteenth century and were more or less complete in the nineteenth. Although do coexisted with the simple verb forms in negative statements from the early ninth century, obligatoriness was not complete until the nineteenth. The increasing use of do periphrasis coincides with the fixing of SVO word order. Not surprisingly, do is first widely used in interrogatives, where the word order is disrupted, and then later spread to negatives."
Rowicka, G. J. (2006). "Canada: Language Situation".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 194–195. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/01848-4. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Nevalainen, Terttu; Tieken-Boon van Ostade, Ingrid (2006). "Chapter 5: Standardization".In Denison, David; Hogg, Richard M. (eds.). A History of the English language. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-71799-1.
Lehohla, Pali, ed. (2012). "Population by first language spoken and province" (PDF). Census 2011: Census in Brief (PDF). Pretoria: Statistics South Africa. p. 23. ISBN 978-0-621-41388-5. Report No. 03‑01‑41. Archived (PDF) from the original on 13 November 2015.
"outer circle" countries have small communities of native speakers of English but widespread use of English as a second language in education or broadcasting or for local official purposes, and
Englischmen þeyz hy hadde fram þe bygynnyng þre manner speche, Souþeron, Northeron, and Myddel speche in þe myddel of þe lond, ... Noþeles by comyxstion and mellyng, furst wiþ Danes, and afterward wiþ Normans, in menye þe contray longage ys asperyed, and som vseþ strange wlaffyng, chyteryng, harryng, and garryng grisbytting.
Leech 2006, p. 69: "Nominative is a traditional name for the subjective case"
Hickey, R. (2007). Irish English: History and present-day forms. Cambridge University Press.
Svartvik & Leech 2006, Chapter 12: English into the Future.
^ Kamm, Oliver (12 December 2015). "The Pedant: The sheer usefulness of singular 'they' is obvious". The Times. Archived from the original on 19 June 2019. Retrieved 24 November 2021.
The verb do can be used as an auxiliary even in simple declarative sentences, where it usually serves to add emphasis, as in "I did shut the fridge." However, in the negated and inverted clauses referred to above, it is used because the rules of English syntax permit these constructions only when an auxiliary is present. Modern English does not allow the addition of the negating adverb not to an ordinary finite lexical verb, as in *I know not—it can only be added to an auxiliary (or copular) verb, hence if there is no other auxiliary present when negation is required, the auxiliary do is used, to produce a form like I do not (don't) know. The same applies in clauses requiring inversion, including most questions—inversion must involve the subject and an auxiliary verb, so it is not possible to say *Know you him?; grammatical rules require Do you know him?[214]
English in England can be divided into four major dialect regions, Southwest English, South East English, Midlands English, and Northern English. Within each of these regions several local subdialects exist: Within the Northern region, there is a division between the Yorkshire dialects and the Geordie dialect spoken in Northumbria around Newcastle, and the Lancashire dialects with local urban dialects in Liverpool (Scouse) and Manchester (Mancunian). Having been the centre of Danish occupation during the Viking Invasions, Northern English dialects, particularly the Yorkshire dialect, retain Norse features not found in other English varieties.[261]
Lawton, David L. (1982). "English in the Caribbean".In Bailey, Richard W.; Görlach, Manfred (eds.). English as a World Language. University of Michigan Press. pp. 251–280. ISBN 978-3-12-533872-2.
"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About the United Nations"
^ Sweet 2014, p. 52: "But in that special class of nouns called personal pronouns we find a totally different system of case-inflection, namely, a nominative case (he) and an objective case (him)"
Giegerich, Heinz J. (1992). English Phonology: An Introduction. Cambridge Textbooks in Linguistics. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-33603-1.
Patrick, P. L. (2006a). "Jamaica: Language Situation".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 88–90. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/01760-0. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Trudgill, Peter; Hannah, Jean (2008). International English: A Guide to the Varieties of Standard English (5th ed.). London: Arnold. ISBN 978-0-340-97161-1. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 26 March 2015.
^ McWhorter, John H. (2001). Word on the Street: Debunking the Myth of a "Pure" Standard English. Basic Books. p. 162. ISBN 978-0-7382-0446-8. Archived from the original on 30 June 2020. Retrieved 22 November 2015.
"Which countries are best at English as a second language?"
Since the ninth century, English has been written in a Latin alphabet (also called Roman alphabet). Earlier Old English texts in Anglo-Saxon runes are only short inscriptions. The great majority of literary works in Old English that survive to today are written in the Roman alphabet.[37] The modern English alphabet contains 26 letters of the Latin script: a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l, m, n, o, p, q, r, s, t, u, v, w, x, y, z (which also have capital forms: A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z).
Statistics South Africa 2012, Table 2.5 Population by first language spoken and province (number).
Pronouns are used to refer to entities deictically or anaphorically. A deictic pronoun points to some person or object by identifying it relative to the speech situation—for example, the pronoun I identifies the speaker, and the pronoun you, the addressee. Anaphoric pronouns such as that refer back to an entity already mentioned or assumed by the speaker to be known by the audience, for example in the sentence I already told you that. The reflexive pronouns are used when the oblique argument is identical to the subject of a phrase (e.g. "he sent it to himself" or "she braced herself for impact").[195]
Hancock, Ian F.; Angogo, Rachel (1982). "English in East Africa".In Bailey, Richard W.; Görlach, Manfred (eds.). English as a World Language. University of Michigan Press. pp. 415–438. ISBN 978-3-12-533872-2.
Most Caribbean varieties are based on British English and consequently, most are non-rhotic, except for formal styles of Jamaican English which are often rhotic. Jamaican English differs from RP in its vowel inventory, which has a distinction between long and short vowels rather than tense and lax vowels as in Standard English. The diphthongs /ei/ and /ou/ are monophthongs [eː] and [oː] or even the reverse diphthongs [ie] and [uo] (e.g. bay and boat pronounced [bʲeː] and [bʷoːt]). Often word-final consonant clusters are simplified so that "child" is pronounced [t͡ʃail] and "wind" [win].[301][302][303]
English verbs are inflected for tense and aspect and marked for agreement with present-tense third-person singular subject. Only the copula verb to be is still inflected for agreement with the plural and first and second person subjects.[182] Auxiliary verbs such as have and be are paired with verbs in the infinitive, past, or progressive forms. They form complex tenses, aspects, and moods. Auxiliary verbs differ from other verbs in that they can be followed by the negation, and in that they can occur as the first constituent in a question sentence.[197][198]
European Commission (June 2012). Special Eurobarometer 386: Europeans and Their Languages (PDF) (Report). Eurobarometer Special Surveys. Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 January 2016. Retrieved 12 February 2015.
Trask, Larry; Trask, Robert Lawrence (2010). Why Do Languages Change?. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-83802-3. Archived from the original on 20 March 2015. Retrieved 5 March 2015.
^ "Globish – a language of international business?". Global Lingo. 2 April 2012. Archived from the original on 18 February 2020. Retrieved 24 November 2019.
"expanding circle" countries are countries where many people learn English as a foreign language.
Payne, John; Huddleston, Rodney (2002). "5. Nouns and noun phrases".In Huddleston, R.; Pullum, G. K. (eds.). The Cambridge Grammar of English. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 323–522.
Old English was divided into four dialects: the Anglian dialects (Mercian and Northumbrian) and the Saxon dialects, Kentish and West Saxon.[34] Through the educational reforms of King Alfred in the 9th century and the influence of the kingdom of Wessex, the West Saxon dialect became the standard written variety.[35] The epic poem Beowulf is written in West Saxon, and the earliest English poem, Cædmon's Hymn, is written in Northumbrian.[36] Modern English developed mainly from Mercian, but the Scots language developed from Northumbrian. A few short inscriptions from the early period of Old English were written using a runic script.[37] By the 6th century, a Latin alphabet was adopted, written with half-uncial letterforms. It included the runic letters wynn ⟨ƿ⟩ and thorn ⟨þ⟩, and the modified Latin letters eth ⟨ð⟩, and ash ⟨æ⟩.[37][38]
"Sentence stress". ESOL Nexus. British Council. Archived from the original on 3 December 2019. Retrieved 24 November 2019.
United NationsEuropean UnionCommonwealth of NationsCouncil of EuropeICCIMFIOCISONATOWTONAFTAOASOECDOICOPECGUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic DevelopmentPIFUKUSA AgreementASEANASEAN Economic CommunitySAARCCaribbean CommunityOrganization of Turkic StatesTürksoyECO
Algeo, John (1999). "Chapter 2:Vocabulary".In Romaine, Suzanne (ed.). Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. IV: 1776–1997. Cambridge University Press. pp. 57–91. doi:10.1017/CHOL9780521264778.003. ISBN 978-0-521-26477-8.
Huddleston, Rodney D.; Pullum, Geoffrey K.; Reynolds, Brett (2022). A student's introduction to English grammar (2nd ed.). Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press. pp. 124–126. ISBN 978-1-316-51464-1.
4Phonology											Toggle Phonology subsection																					4.1Consonants																											4.2Vowels																											4.3Phonotactics																											4.4Stress, rhythm and intonation																											4.5Regional variation
Plural and singular are always identical (you, your, yours) in the second person (except in the reflexive form: yourself/yourselves) in most dialects. Some dialects have introduced innovative second person plural pronouns, such as y'all (found in Southern American English and African-American (Vernacular) English), youse (found in Australian English), or ye (in Hiberno-English).
Williams, Joseph M. (1986). Origins of the English Language: A Social and Linguistic History. ISBN 978-0-02-934470-5.
^ Horobin, Simon. "Chaucer's Middle English". The Open Access Companion to the Canterbury Tales. Louisiana State University. Archived from the original on 3 December 2019. Retrieved 24 November 2019. The only appearances of their and them in Chaucer's works are in the Reeve's Tale, where they form part of the Northern dialect spoken by the two Cambridge students, Aleyn and John, demonstrating that at this time they were still perceived to be Northernisms
^ "Singular "They"". APA Style. Archived from the original on 21 October 2020. Retrieved 24 November 2021.
"Universal Declaration of Human Rights". un.org. Archived from the original on 16 March 2021. Retrieved 7 January 2022.
By the late 18th century, the British Empire had spread English through its colonies and geopolitical dominance. Commerce, science and technology, diplomacy, art, and formal education all contributed to English becoming the first truly global language. English also facilitated worldwide international communication.[54][3] England continued to form new colonies, and these later developed their own norms for speech and writing. English was adopted in parts of North America, parts of Africa, Australasia, and many other regions. When they obtained political independence, some of the newly independent nations that had multiple indigenous languages opted to continue using English as the official language to avoid the political and other difficulties inherent in promoting any one indigenous language above the others.[55][56][57] In the 20th century the growing economic and cultural influence of the United States and its status as a superpower following the Second World War has, along with worldwide broadcasting in English by the BBC[58] and other broadcasters, caused the language to spread across the planet much faster.[59][60] In the 21st century, English is more widely spoken and written than any language has ever been.[61]
Mufwene, S. S. (2006). "Language Spread".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 613–616. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/01291-8. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
dark l: RP and GA full [fʊɫ], GA light [ɫaɪt]
Crystal, David (2004). "Subcontinent Raises Its Voice". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 17 April 2008. Retrieved 4 February 2015.
English is a pluricentric language, which means that no one national authority sets the standard for use of the language.[93][94][95][96] Spoken English, for example English used in broadcasting, generally follows national pronunciation standards that are established by custom rather than by regulation. International broadcasters are usually identifiable as coming from one country rather than another through their accents,[97] but newsreader scripts are also composed largely in international standard written English. The norms of standard written English are maintained purely by the consensus of educated English-speakers around the world, without any oversight by any government or international organisation.[98]
O'Dwyer, Bernard (2006). Modern English Structures, second edition: Form, Function, and Position. Broadview Press.
Trudgill, Peter; Hannah, Jean (2002). International English: A Guide to the Varieties of Standard English (4th ed.). London: Hodder Education. ISBN 978-0-340-80834-4.
Kamm, Oliver (12 December 2015). "The Pedant: The sheer usefulness of singular 'they' is obvious". The Times. Archived from the original on 19 June 2019. Retrieved 24 November 2021.
United Nations (2010). "Everything You Always Wanted to Know About the United Nations" (PDF). Archived from the original on 17 March 2023. Retrieved 10 December 2022. The working languages at the UN Secretariat are English and French.
Aitken, A. J.; McArthur, Tom, eds. (1979). Languages of Scotland. Occasional paper – Association for Scottish Literary Studies; no. 4. Edinburgh: Chambers. ISBN 978-0-550-20261-1.
Rama Mathew; Shefali Srivastava (July 2011). "English Next India: The Future of English in India". ELT Journal (Review). 65 (3): 356–359. doi:10.1093/elt/ccr034.
Mountford, J. (2006). "English Spelling: Rationale".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 156–159. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/05018-5. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
For the expression of mood, English uses a number of modal auxiliaries, such as can, may, will, shall and the past tense forms could, might, would, should. There are also subjunctive and imperative moods, both based on the plain form of the verb (i.e. without the third person singular -s), for use in subordinate clauses (e.g. subjunctive: It is important that he run every day; imperative Run!).[201]
Overcoming Dyslexia: A New and Complete Science-based Program for Reading Problems at Any Level
Toon, Thomas E. (1992). "Old English Dialects".In Hogg, Richard M. (ed.). The Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. 1: The Beginnings to 1066. Cambridge University Press. pp. 409–451. ISBN 978-0-521-26474-7.
Hughes, Arthur; Trudgill, Peter (1996). English Accents and Dialects (3rd ed.). Arnold Publishers.
Aarts, Bas; Haegeman, Liliane (2006). "6. English Word classes and Phrases".In Aarts, Bas; McMahon, April (eds.). The Handbook of English Linguistics. Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Finkenstaedt, Thomas; Dieter Wolff (1973). Ordered profusion; studies in dictionaries and the English lexicon. C. Winter. ISBN 978-3-533-02253-4.
Baugh, Albert (1951). A History of the English Language. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul. pp. 60–83, 110–130
"Singular "They"". APA Style. Archived from the original on 21 October 2020. Retrieved 24 November 2021.
Lunden, Anya (2017). "Duration, vowel quality, and the rhythmic pattern of English". Laboratory Phonology. 8: 27. doi:10.5334/labphon.37.
The phonetic symbols used below are from the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).[141][142][143]
With the Norman Conquest of England in 1066, the now norsified Old English language was subject to contact with Old French, in particular with the Old Norman dialect. The Norman language in England eventually developed into Anglo-Norman.[10] Because Norman was spoken primarily by the elites and nobles, while the lower classes continued speaking Anglo-Saxon (English), the main influence of Norman was the introduction of a wide range of loanwords related to politics, legislation and prestigious social domains.[9] Middle English also greatly simplified the inflectional system, probably in order to reconcile Old Norse and Old English, which were inflectionally different but morphologically similar. The distinction between nominative and accusative cases was lost except in personal pronouns, the instrumental case was dropped, and the use of the genitive case was limited to indicating possession. The inflectional system regularised many irregular inflectional forms,[46] and gradually simplified the system of agreement, making word order less flexible.[47] In Wycliff'e Bible of the 1380s, the verse Matthew 8:20 was written: Foxis han dennes, and briddis of heuene han nestis.[48] Here the plural suffix -n on the verb have is still retained, but none of the case endings on the nouns are present. By the 12th century Middle English was fully developed, integrating both Norse and French features; it continued to be spoken until the transition to early Modern English around 1500. Middle English literature includes Geoffrey Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales, and Thomas Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur. In the Middle English period, the use of regional dialects in writing proliferated, and dialect traits were even used for effect by authors such as Chaucer.[49]
Stress in English is phonemic, and some pairs of words are distinguished by stress. For instance, the word contract is stressed on the first syllable (/ˈkɒntrækt/ KON-trakt) when used as a noun, but on the last syllable (/kənˈtrækt/ kən-TRAKT) for most meanings (for example, "reduce in size") when used as a verb.[159][160][161] Here stress is connected to vowel reduction: in the noun "contract" the first syllable is stressed and has the unreduced vowel /ɒ/, but in the verb "contract" the first syllable is unstressed and its vowel is reduced to /ə/. Stress is also used to distinguish between words and phrases, so that a compound word receives a single stress unit, but the corresponding phrase has two: e.g. a burnout (/ˈbɜːrnaʊt/) versus to burn out (/ˈbɜːrn ˈaʊt/), and a hotdog (/ˈhɒtdɒɡ/) versus a hot dog (/ˈhɒt ˈdɒɡ/).[162]
^ Svartvik & Leech 2006, Chapter 12: English into the Future.
English has formal and informal speech registers; informal registers, including child-directed speech, tend to be made up predominantly of words of Anglo-Saxon origin, while the percentage of vocabulary that is of Latinate origin is higher in legal, scientific, and academic texts.[237][238]
Some dialects have fewer or more consonant phonemes and phones than the standard varieties. Some conservative varieties like Scottish English have a voiceless [ʍ] sound in whine that contrasts with the voiced [w] in wine, but most other dialects pronounce both words with voiced [w], a dialect feature called wine–whine merger. The unvoiced velar fricative sound /x/ is found in Scottish English, which distinguishes loch /lɔx/ from lock /lɔk/. Accents like Cockney with "h-dropping" lack the glottal fricative /h/, and dialects with th-stopping and th-fronting like African-American Vernacular and Estuary English do not have the dental fricatives /θ, ð/, but replace them with dental or alveolar stops /t, d/ or labiodental fricatives /f, v/.[167][168] Other changes affecting the phonology of local varieties are processes such as yod-dropping, yod-coalescence, and reduction of consonant clusters.[169][page needed]
In the 1611 King James Version of the Bible, written in Early Modern English, Matthew 8:20 says, "The Foxes haue holes and the birds of the ayre haue nests."[43] This exemplifies the loss of case and its effects on sentence structure (replacement with subject–verb–object word order, and the use of of instead of the non-possessive genitive), and the introduction of loanwords from French (ayre) and word replacements (bird originally meaning "nestling" had replaced OE fugol).[43]
Accents of English from Around the World (University of Edinburgh)
Shaywitz, Sally E. (2003). Overcoming Dyslexia: A New and Complete Science-based Program for Reading Problems at Any Level. A.A. Knopf. ISBN 978-0-375-40012-4. Archived from the original on 5 September 2015. Retrieved 3 April 2015.
Crawford, James (1 February 2012). "Language Legislation in the U.S.A." languagepolicy.net. Archived from the original on 16 November 2020. Retrieved 29 May 2013.
"LEECH, L., M. HUNDT, C. MAIR & N. SMITH. Change in contemporary English: A grammatical study"
The class of determiners is used to specify the noun they precede in terms of definiteness, where the marks a definite noun and a or an an indefinite one. A definite noun is assumed by the speaker to be already known by the interlocutor, whereas an indefinite noun is not specified as being previously known. Quantifiers, which include one, many, some and all, are used to specify the noun in terms of quantity or number. The noun must agree with the number of the determiner, e.g. one man (sg.) but all men (pl.). Determiners are the first constituents in a noun phrase.[180]
It is generally stated that English has around 170,000 words, or 220,000 if obsolete words are counted; this estimate is based on the last full edition of the Oxford English Dictionary from 1989.[223] Over half of these words are nouns, a quarter adjectives, and a seventh verbs. There is one count that puts the English vocabulary at about 1 million words—but that count presumably includes words such as Latin species names, scientific terminology, botanical terms, prefixed and suffixed words, jargon, foreign words of extremely limited English use, and technical acronyms.[224]
Human Development in India: Challenges for a Society in Transition
While English is a subject-prominent language, at the discourse level it tends to use a topic-comment structure, where the known information (topic) precedes the new information (comment). Because of the strict SVO syntax, the topic of a sentence generally has to be the grammatical subject of the sentence. In cases where the topic is not the grammatical subject of the sentence, it is often promoted to subject position through syntactic means. One way of doing this is through a passive construction, the girl was stung by the bee. Another way is through a cleft sentence where the main clause is demoted to be a complement clause of a copula sentence with a dummy subject such as it or there, e.g. it was the girl that the bee stung, there was a girl who was stung by a bee.[218] Dummy subjects are also used in constructions where there is no grammatical subject such as with impersonal verbs (e.g., it is raining) or in existential clauses (there are many cars on the street). Through the use of these complex sentence constructions with informationally vacuous subjects, English is able to maintain both a topic-comment sentence structure and a SVO syntax.
Sweet, Henry (2014) [1892]. A New English Grammar. Cambridge University Press.
English is classified as a Germanic language because it shares innovations with other Germanic languages such as Dutch, German, and Swedish.[26] These shared innovations show that the languages have descended from a single common ancestor called Proto-Germanic. Some shared features of Germanic languages include the division of verbs into strong and weak classes, the use of modal verbs, and the sound changes affecting Proto-Indo-European consonants, known as Grimm's and Verner's laws. English is classified as an Anglo-Frisian language because Frisian and English share other features, such as the palatalisation of consonants that were velar consonants in Proto-Germanic (see Phonological history of Old English § Palatalization).[27]
^ a b c d Carter, Ronald; McCarthey, Michael; Mark, Geraldine; O'Keeffe, Anne (2016). English Grammar Today. Cambridge Univ Pr. ISBN 978-1-316-61739-7.
Since the English language first evolved in Britain and Ireland, the archipelago is home to the most diverse dialects, particularly in England. Within the United Kingdom, the Received Pronunciation (RP), an educated dialect of South East England, is traditionally used as the broadcast standard and is considered the most prestigious of the British dialects. The spread of RP (also known as BBC English) through the media has caused many traditional dialects of rural England to recede, as youths adopt the traits of the prestige variety instead of traits from local dialects. At the time of the Survey of English Dialects, grammar and vocabulary differed across the country, but a process of lexical attrition has led most of this variation to disappear.[257]
Mazrui, Ali A.; Mazrui, Alamin (1998). The Power of Babel: Language and Governance in the African Experience. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-51429-1. Archived from the original on 19 March 2015. Retrieved 15 February 2015.
The translation of Matthew 8:20 from 1000 shows examples of case endings (nominative plural, accusative plural, genitive singular) and a verb ending (present plural):
Crystal, David (2006). "Chapter 9: English worldwide".In Denison, David; Hogg, Richard M. (eds.). A History of the English Language. Cambridge University Press. pp. 420–439. ISBN 978-0-511-16893-2.
The settlement history of the English-speaking inner circle countries outside Britain helped level dialect distinctions and produce koineised forms of English in South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand.[101] The majority of immigrants to the United States without British ancestry rapidly adopted English after arrival. Now the majority of the United States population are monolingual English speakers,[71][102] and English has been given official or co-official status by 30 of the 50 state governments, as well as all five territorial governments of the US, though there has never been an official language at the federal level.[103][104]
3Geographical distribution											Toggle Geographical distribution subsection																					3.1Three circles of English-speaking countries																											3.2Pluricentric English																											3.3English as a global language
In English a sentence may be composed of one or more clauses, that may, in turn, be composed of one or more phrases (e.g. Noun Phrases, Verb Phrases, and Prepositional Phrases). A clause is built around a verb and includes its constituents, such as any NPs and PPs. Within a sentence, there is always at least one main clause (or matrix clause) whereas other clauses are subordinate to a main clause. Subordinate clauses may function as arguments of the verb in the main clause. For example, in the phrase I think (that) you are lying, the main clause is headed by the verb think, the subject is I, but the object of the phrase is the subordinate clause (that) you are lying. The subordinating conjunction that shows that the clause that follows is a subordinate clause, but it is often omitted.[211] Relative clauses are clauses that function as a modifier or specifier to some constituent in the main clause: For example, in the sentence I saw the letter that you received today, the relative clause that you received today specifies the meaning of the word letter, the object of the main clause. Relative clauses can be introduced by the pronouns who, whose, whom and which as well as by that (which can also be omitted.)[212] In contrast to many other Germanic languages there are no major differences between word order in main and subordinate clauses.[213]
Carr, Philip; Honeybone, Patrick (2007). "English phonology and linguistic theory: an introduction to issues, and to 'Issues in English Phonology'". Language Sciences. 29 (2): 117–153. doi:10.1016/j.langsci.2006.12.018. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Gottlieb, H. (2006). "Linguistic Influence".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 196–206. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/04455-2. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Kachru, B. (2006). "English: World Englishes".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 195–202. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/00645-3. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Lass 1992, pp. 90, 118, 610; Lass 2000, pp. 80, 656.
Adegbija, Efurosibina (1989). "Lexico-semantic variation in Nigerian English". World Englishes. 8 (2): 165–177. doi:10.1111/j.1467-971X.1989.tb00652.x.
Nation, I. S. P. (2001). Learning Vocabulary in Another Language. Cambridge University Press. p. 477. ISBN 978-0-521-80498-1. Archived from the original on 20 March 2015. Retrieved 4 February 2015.
Dragana Šurkalović (2 July 2011). "Review of The Routledge Handbook of World Englishes". Linguist List. Archived from the original on 10 March 2022. Retrieved 10 March 2022.
Collingwood, Robin George; Myres, J. N. L. (1936). "Chapter XX. The Sources for the period: Angles, Saxons, and Jutes on the Continent". Roman Britain and the English Settlements. Vol. Book V: The English Settlements. Oxford, England: Clarendon Press. JSTOR 2143838. LCCN 37002621.
As is typical of an Indo-European language, English follows accusative morphosyntactic alignment. Unlike other Indo-European languages though, English has largely abandoned the inflectional case system in favour of analytic constructions. Only the personal pronouns retain morphological case more strongly than any other word class. English distinguishes at least seven major word classes: verbs, nouns, adjectives, adverbs, determiners (including articles), prepositions, and conjunctions. Some analyses add pronouns as a class separate from nouns, and subdivide conjunctions into subordinators and coordinators, and add the class of interjections.[173] English also has a rich set of auxiliary verbs, such as have and do, expressing the categories of mood and aspect. Questions are marked by do-support, wh-movement (fronting of question words beginning with wh-) and word order inversion with some verbs.[174]
Hogg, Richard M. (1992). "Chapter 3: Phonology and Morphology".In Hogg, Richard M. (ed.). The Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. 1: The Beginnings to 1066. Cambridge University Press. pp. 67–168. doi:10.1017/CHOL9780521264747. ISBN 978-0-521-26474-7. S2CID 161881054.
Dialectologists identify many English dialects, which usually refer to regional varieties that differ from each other in terms of patterns of grammar, vocabulary, and pronunciation. The pronunciation of particular areas distinguishes dialects as separate regional accents. The major native dialects of English are often divided by linguists into the two extremely general categories of British English (BrE) and North American English (NAE).[256] There also exists a third common major grouping of English varieties: Southern Hemisphere English, the most prominent being Australian and New Zealand English.
Lass, Roger (2000). "Chapter 3: Phonology and Morphology".In Lass, Roger (ed.). The Cambridge History of the English Language, Volume III: 1476–1776. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 56–186.
For the vowel sounds of the English language, however, correspondences between spelling and pronunciation are more irregular. There are many more vowel phonemes in English than there are single vowel letters (a, e, i, o, u, w, y). As a result, some "long vowels" are often indicated by combinations of letters (like the oa in boat, the ow in how, and the ay in stay), or the historically based silent e (as in note and cake).[247]
International Civil Aviation Organization (2011). "Personnel Licensing FAQ". International Civil Aviation Organization – Air Navigation Bureau. In which languages does a licence holder need to demonstrate proficiency?. Archived from the original on 20 December 2014. Retrieved 16 December 2014. Controllers working on stations serving designated airports and routes used by international air services shall demonstrate language proficiency in English as well as in any other language(s) used by the station on the ground.
Carter, Ronald; McCarthey, Michael; Mark, Geraldine; O'Keeffe, Anne (2016). English Grammar Today. Cambridge Univ Pr. ISBN 978-1-316-61739-7.
^ "L'incroyable histoire des mots français dans la langue anglaise". Daily Motion (in French). Archived from the original on 22 November 2018. Retrieved 20 November 2018.
5.1Nouns and noun phrases																								5.1.1Adjectives																											5.1.2Determiners																											5.1.3Pronouns, case, and person																											5.1.4Prepositions
^ Huddleston, Rodney D.; Pullum, Geoffrey K.; Reynolds, Brett (2022). A student's introduction to English grammar (2nd ed.). Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press. pp. 124–126. ISBN 978-1-316-51464-1.
Why Our Children Can't Read, and what We Can Do about it: A Scientific Revolution in Reading
/b, d, f, h, dʒ, k, l, m, n, p, r, s, t, v, w, j, z/
"Do You Speak American: What Lies Ahead". PBS. Archived from the original on 14 September 2007. Retrieved 15 August 2007.
Hogg, Richard M. (2006). "Chapter7: English in Britain".In Denison, David; Hogg, Richard M. (eds.). A History of the English language. Cambridge University Press. pp. 360–61. ISBN 978-0-521-71799-1.
Roach, Peter (2009). English Phonetics and Phonology (4th ed.). Cambridge.
Levine, L.; Crockett, H. J. (1966). "Speech Variation in a Piedmont Community: Postvocalic r*". Sociological Inquiry. 36 (2): 204–226. doi:10.1111/j.1475-682x.1966.tb00625.x.
Labov, W. (2012). "1. About Language and Language Change". Dialect Diversity in America: The Politics of Language Change. University of Virginia Press.
Crystal, David; Potter, Simeon (editors). "English language: Historical background". Encyclopædia Britannica. Dec. 2021.
Old English and Its Closest Relatives: A Survey of the Earliest Germanic Languages
As Modern English developed, explicit norms for standard usage were published, and spread through official media such as public education and state-sponsored publications. In 1755 Samuel Johnson published his A Dictionary of the English Language, which introduced standard spellings of words and usage norms. In 1828, Noah Webster published the American Dictionary of the English language to try to establish a norm for speaking and writing American English that was independent of the British standard. Within Britain, non-standard or lower class dialect features were increasingly stigmatised, leading to the quick spread of the prestige varieties among the middle classes.[62]
English is spoken widely in southern Africa and is an official or co-official language in several countries. In South Africa, English has been spoken since 1820, co-existing with Afrikaans and various African languages such as the Khoe and Bantu languages. Today, about 9 percent of the South African population speaks South African English (SAE) as a first language. SAE is a non-rhotic variety, which tends to follow RP as a norm. It is alone among non-rhotic varieties in lacking intrusive r. There are different L2 varieties that differ based on the native language of the speakers.[294] Most phonological differences from RP are in the vowels.[295] Consonant differences include the tendency to pronounce /p, t, t͡ʃ, k/ without aspiration (e.g. pin pronounced [pɪn] rather than as [pʰɪn] as in most other varieties), while r is often pronounced as a flap [ɾ] instead of as the more common fricative.[296]
English began to rise in prestige, relative to Norman French, during the reign of Henry V. Around 1430, the Court of Chancery in Westminster began using English in its official documents, and a new standard form of Middle English, known as Chancery Standard, developed from the dialects of London and the East Midlands. In 1476, William Caxton introduced the printing press to England and began publishing the first printed books in London, expanding the influence of this form of English.[52] Literature from the Early Modern period includes the works of William Shakespeare and the translation of the Bible commissioned by King James I. Even after the vowel shift the language still sounded different from Modern English: for example, the consonant clusters /kn ɡn sw/ in knight, gnat, and sword were still pronounced. Many of the grammatical features that a modern reader of Shakespeare might find quaint or archaic represent the distinct characteristics of Early Modern English.[53]
The Power of Babel: Language and Governance in the African Experience
English also makes frequent use of constructions traditionally called phrasal verbs, verb phrases that are made up of a verb root and a preposition or particle that follows the verb. The phrase then functions as a single predicate. In terms of intonation the preposition is fused to the verb, but in writing it is written as a separate word. Examples of phrasal verbs are to get up, to ask out, to back up, to give up, to get together, to hang out, to put up with, etc. The phrasal verb frequently has a highly idiomatic meaning that is more specialised and restricted than what can be simply extrapolated from the combination of verb and preposition complement (e.g. lay off meaning terminate someone's employment).[205] In spite of the idiomatic meaning, some grammarians, including Huddleston & Pullum (2002:274), do not consider this type of construction to form a syntactic constituent and hence refrain from using the term "phrasal verb". Instead, they consider the construction simply to be a verb with a prepositional phrase as its syntactic complement, i.e. he woke up in the morning and he ran up in the mountains are syntactically equivalent.
Australian Bureau of Statistics (28 March 2013). "2011 Census QuickStats: Australia". Archived from the original on 6 November 2015. Retrieved 25 March 2015.
"Indiaspeak: English is our 2nd language – The Times of India". The Times of India. 14 March 2010. Archived from the original on 22 April 2016. Retrieved 5 January 2016.
As of 2016[update], 400 million people spoke English as their first language, and 1.1 billion spoke it as a secondary language.[67] English is the largest language by number of speakers. English is spoken by communities on every continent and on islands in all the major oceans.[68]
Scheler, Manfred (1977). Der englische Wortschatz [English Vocabulary] (in German). Berlin: E. Schmidt. ISBN 978-3-503-01250-3. Archived from the original on 26 March 2017. Retrieved 18 June 2017.
Schneider, Edgar (2007). Postcolonial English: Varieties Around the World. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-53901-2. Archived from the original on 1 August 2020. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
The countries where English is spoken can be grouped into different categories according to how English is used in each country. The "inner circle"[69] countries with many native speakers of English share an international standard of written English and jointly influence speech norms for English around the world. English does not belong to just one country, and it does not belong solely to descendants of English settlers. English is an official language of countries populated by few descendants of native speakers of English. It has also become by far the most important language of international communication when people who share no native language meet anywhere in the world.
Romaine, Suzanne (1982). "English in Scotland".In Bailey, Richard W.; Görlach, Manfred (eds.). English as a World Language. University of Michigan Press. pp. 56–83. ISBN 978-3-12-533872-2.
"Review: Applied Ling.; General Ling.; Ling. Theories; Socioling.: Watts (2011)"
Countries and territories where English is an official language, but not the majority first language
Leech, Geoffrey; Hundt, Marianne; Mair, Christian; Smith, Nicholas (2009). Change in contemporary English: a grammatical study (PDF). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-86722-1. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 22 September 2016.Robert D. Angus (Winter 2012). "LEECH, L., M. HUNDT, C. MAIR & N. SMITH. Change in contemporary English: A grammatical study" (PDF). California Linguistic Notes. Vol. XXXVII, no. 1. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 April 2015.
Jespersen, Otto (2007) [1924]. "Case: The number of English cases". The Philosophy of Grammar. Routledge.
Ammon, Ulrich (2006). "Language Conflicts in the European Union: On finding a politically acceptable and practicable solution for EU institutions that satisfies diverging interests". International Journal of Applied Linguistics. 16 (3): 319–338. doi:10.1111/j.1473-4192.2006.00121.x. S2CID 142692741.
Dixon, R. M. W. (1982). "The grammar of English phrasal verbs". Australian Journal of Linguistics. 2 (1): 1–42. doi:10.1080/07268608208599280.
English forms new words from existing words or roots in its vocabulary through a variety of processes. One of the most productive processes in English is conversion,[227] using a word with a different grammatical role, for example using a noun as a verb or a verb as a noun. Another productive word-formation process is nominal compounding,[224][226] producing compound words such as babysitter or ice cream or homesick.[227] A process more common in Old English than in Modern English, but still productive in Modern English, is the use of derivational suffixes (-hood, -ness, -ing, -ility) to derive new words from existing words (especially those of Germanic origin) or stems (especially for words of Latin or Greek origin).
Fischer, Olga; van der Wurff, Wim (2006). "Chapter 3: Syntax".In Denison, David; Hogg, Richard M. (eds.). A History of the English language. Cambridge University Press. pp. 109–198. ISBN 978-0-521-71799-1.
^ Thomas, Erik R. (2003), "Rural White Southern Accents" (PDF), Atlas of North American English (online), Mouton de Gruyter, p. 16, archived from the original (PDF) on 22 December 2014, retrieved 11 November 2015 [Later published as a chapter in: Bernd Kortmann and Edgar W. Schneider (eds) (2004). A Handbook of Varieties of English: A Multimedia Reference Tool. New York: Mouton de Gruyter, pp. 300–324.]
Annamalai, E. (2006). "India: Language Situation".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 610–613. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/04611-3. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 4 February 2021. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Gay, Eric Martin (2014). Old English and Old Norse: An Inquiry into Intelligibility and Categorization Methodology (MA thesis). University of South Carolina. Archived from the original on 16 December 2022. Retrieved 16 December 2022.
Since the 15th century, southeastern England varieties have centred on London, which has been the centre from which dialectal innovations have spread to other dialects. In London, the Cockney dialect was traditionally used by the lower classes, and it was long a socially stigmatised variety. The spread of Cockney features across the south-east led the media to talk of Estuary English as a new dialect, but the notion was criticised by many linguists on the grounds that London had been influencing neighbouring regions throughout history.[262][263][264] Traits that have spread from London in recent decades include the use of intrusive R (drawing is pronounced drawring /ˈdrɔːrɪŋ/), t-glottalisation (Potter is pronounced with a glottal stop as Po'er /poʔʌ/), and the pronunciation of th- as /f/ (thanks pronounced fanks) or /v/ (bother pronounced bover).[265]
6Vocabulary											Toggle Vocabulary subsection																					6.1Word formation processes																											6.2Word origins																											6.3English loanwords and calques in other languages
^ "Finite and Nonfinite Clauses". MyEnglishGrammar.com. Archived from the original on 7 December 2019. Retrieved 7 December 2019.
Lass, Roger (2006). "Chapter 2: Phonology and Morphology".In Denison, David; Hogg, Richard M. (eds.). A History of the English language. Cambridge University Press. pp. 46–47. ISBN 978-0-521-71799-1.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Finkenstaedt, Thomas; Dieter Wolff (1973). Ordered profusion; studies in dictionaries and the English lexicon. C. Winter. ISBN 978-3-533-02253-4.
In terms of rhythm, English is generally described as a stress-timed language, meaning that the amount of time between stressed syllables tends to be equal.[163] Stressed syllables are pronounced longer, but unstressed syllables (syllables between stresses) are shortened. Vowels in unstressed syllables are shortened as well, and vowel shortening causes changes in vowel quality: vowel reduction.[164]
Bao, Z. (2006). "Variation in Nonnative Varieties of English".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 377–380. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/04257-7. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Possessive pronouns exist in dependent and independent forms; the dependent form functions as a determiner specifying a noun (as in my chair), while the independent form can stand alone as if it were a noun (e.g. the chair is mine).[192] The English system of grammatical person no longer has a distinction between formal and informal pronouns of address (the old second person singular familiar pronoun thou acquired a pejorative or inferior tinge of meaning and was abandoned).
English word order has moved from the Germanic verb-second (V2) word order to being almost exclusively subject–verb–object (SVO).[207] The combination of SVO order and use of auxiliary verbs often creates clusters of two or more verbs at the centre of the sentence, such as he had hoped to try to open it.
Schiffrin, Deborah (1988). Discourse Markers. Studies in Interactional Sociolinguistics. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-35718-0. Archived from the original on 5 September 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
MacMahon, M. K. (2006). "16. English Phonetics".In Bas Aarts; April McMahon (eds.). The Handbook of English Linguistics. Oxford: Blackwell. pp. 359–382. ISBN 9781405113823.
Beau Brock (July 2011). "The English language in Canada: Status, history and comparative analysis (review)". The Canadian Journal of Linguistics. 55 (2): 277–279. doi:10.1353/cjl.2011.0015. S2CID 144445944.
^ a b "they". Oxford English Dictionary (Online ed.). Oxford University Press. (Subscription or participating institution membership required.)
Second Report submitted by the United Kingdom pursuant to article 25, paragraph 1 of the framework convention for the protection of national minorities
Green, Lisa J. (2002). African American English: a linguistic introduction. Cambridge University Press.
"States with Official English Laws". us-english.org. Archived from the original on 15 May 2013. Retrieved 29 May 2013.
Cohesion between sentences is achieved through the use of deictic pronouns as anaphora (e.g. that is exactly what I mean where that refers to some fact known to both interlocutors, or then used to locate the time of a narrated event relative to the time of a previously narrated event).[221] Discourse markers such as oh, so or well, also signal the progression of ideas between sentences and help to create cohesion. Discourse markers are often the first constituents in sentences. Discourse markers are also used for stance taking in which speakers position themselves in a specific attitude towards what is being said, for example, no way is that true! (the idiomatic marker no way! expressing disbelief), or boy! I'm hungry (the marker boy expressing emphasis). While discourse markers are particularly characteristic of informal and spoken registers of English, they are also used in written and formal registers.[222]
An infinitive form, that uses the plain form of the verb and the preposition to, is used for verbal clauses that are syntactically subordinate to a finite verbal clause. Finite verbal clauses are those that are formed around a verb in the present or preterite form. In clauses with auxiliary verbs, they are the finite verbs and the main verb is treated as a subordinate clause.[204] For example, he has to go where only the auxiliary verb have is inflected for time and the main verb to go is in the infinitive, or in a complement clause such as I saw him leave, where the main verb is see, which is in a preterite form, and leave is in the infinitive.
Crystal, David (2008). "Two thousand million?". English Today. 24 (1): 3–6. doi:10.1017/S0266078408000023. S2CID 145597019.
^ Statistics South Africa 2012, Table 2.5 Population by first language spoken and province (number).
^ Lunden, Anya (2017). "Duration, vowel quality, and the rhythmic pattern of English". Laboratory Phonology. 8: 27. doi:10.5334/labphon.37.
McArthur, Tom, ed. (1992). The Oxford Companion to the English Language. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acref/9780192800619.001.0001. ISBN 978-0-19-214183-5.
Labov, William; Ash, Sharon; Boberg, Charles (2006). The Atlas of North American English. Berlin: de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-016746-7. Archived from the original on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 2 April 2015.
The function of adverbs is to modify the action or event described by the verb by providing additional information about the manner in which it occurs.[174] Many adverbs are derived from adjectives by appending the suffix -ly. For example, in the phrase the woman walked quickly, the adverb quickly is derived in this way from the adjective quick. Some commonly used adjectives have irregular adverbial forms, such as good, which has the adverbial form well.
Svartvik, Jan; Leech, Geoffrey (2006). English – One Tongue, Many Voices. Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-1-4039-1830-7. Retrieved 5 March 2015.Lane Gilmour (29 May 2007). "Review: Sociolinguistics: Leech; Svartvik (2006)". Linguist List. Archived from the original on 22 March 2022. Retrieved 10 March 2022.
Although some scholars[who?] mention a possibility of future divergence of English dialects into mutually unintelligible languages, most think a more likely outcome is that English will continue to function as a koineised language in which the standard form unifies speakers from around the world.[136] English is used as the language for wider communication in countries around the world.[137] Thus English has grown in worldwide use much more than any constructed language proposed as an international auxiliary language, including Esperanto.[138][139]
Most verbs have six inflectional forms. The primary forms are a plain present, a third-person singular present, and a preterite (past) form. The secondary forms are a plain form used for the infinitive, a gerund-participle and a past participle.[199] The copula verb to be is the only verb to retain some of its original conjugation, and takes different inflectional forms depending on the subject. The first-person present-tense form is am, the third person singular form is is, and the form are is used in the second-person singular and all three plurals. The only verb past participle is been and its gerund-participle is being.
Brinton, Laurel J.; Brinton, Donna M. (2010). The linguistic structure of modern English. John Benjamins. ISBN 978-90-272-8824-0. Archived from the original on 1 May 2015. Retrieved 2 April 2015.
English has had a strong influence on the vocabulary of other languages.[232][239] The influence of English comes from such factors as opinion leaders in other countries knowing the English language, the role of English as a world lingua franca, and the large number of books and films that are translated from English into other languages.[240] That pervasive use of English leads to a conclusion in many places that English is an especially suitable language for expressing new ideas or describing new technologies. Among varieties of English, it is especially American English that influences other languages.[241] Some languages, such as Chinese, write words borrowed from English mostly as calques, while others, such as Japanese, readily take in English loanwords written in sound-indicating script.[242] Dubbed films and television programmes are an especially fruitful source of English influence on languages in Europe.[242]
Alemannic in the broad senseLow AlemannicAlsatianColonieroHigh AlemannicSwiss GermanHighest AlemannicWalser GermanSwabian
5.3Syntax																								5.3.1Basic constituent order																											5.3.2Clause syntax																											5.3.3Auxiliary verb constructions																											5.3.4Questions																											5.3.5Discourse level syntax
This page was last edited on 17 March 2023, at 20:05 (UTC).
In Modern English, adjectives are not inflected so as to agree in form with the noun they modify, as adjectives in most other Indo-European languages do. For example, in the phrases the slender boy, and many slender girls, the adjective slender does not change form to agree with either the number or gender of the noun.
Smith, Jeremy J. (2009). Old English: a linguistic introduction. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-86677-4.
Statistics New Zealand (April 2014). "2013 QuickStats About Culture and Identity" (PDF). p. 23. Archived from the original (PDF) on 15 January 2015. Retrieved 25 March 2015.
Some adjectives are inflected for degree of comparison, with the positive degree unmarked, the suffix -er marking the comparative, and -est marking the superlative: a small boy, the boy is smaller than the girl, that boy is the smallest. Some adjectives have irregular suppletive comparative and superlative forms, such as good, better, and best. Other adjectives have comparatives formed by periphrastic constructions, with the adverb more marking the comparative, and most marking the superlative: happier or more happy, the happiest or most happy.[182] There is some variation among speakers regarding which adjectives use inflected or periphrastic comparison, and some studies have shown a tendency for the periphrastic forms to become more common at the expense of the inflected form.[183]
McGuinness, Diane (1997). Why Our Children Can't Read, and what We Can Do about it: A Scientific Revolution in Reading. Simon and Schuster. ISBN 978-0-684-83161-9. Archived from the original on 5 September 2015. Retrieved 3 April 2015.
^ Lass 1992, pp. 90, 118, 610; Lass 2000, pp. 80, 656.
^ Human Development in India: Challenges for a Society in Transition (PDF). Oxford University Press. 2005. ISBN 978-0-19-806512-8. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 December 2015. Retrieved 5 January 2016.
Prepositional phrases (PP) are phrases composed of a preposition and one or more nouns, e.g. with the dog, for my friend, to school, in England.[196] Prepositions have a wide range of uses in English. They are used to describe movement, place, and other relations between different entities, but they also have many syntactic uses such as introducing complement clauses and oblique arguments of verbs.[196] For example, in the phrase I gave it to him, the preposition to marks the recipient, or Indirect Object of the verb to give. Traditionally words were only considered prepositions if they governed the case of the noun they preceded, for example causing the pronouns to use the objective rather than subjective form, "with her", "to me", "for us". But some contemporary grammars such as that of Huddleston & Pullum (2002:598–600) no longer consider government of case to be the defining feature of the class of prepositions, rather defining prepositions as words that can function as the heads of prepositional phrases.[citation needed]
Pages using collapsible list with both background and text-align in titlestyle
The phonetics and phonology of the English language differ from one dialect to another, usually without interfering with mutual communication. Phonological variation affects the inventory of phonemes (i.e. speech sounds that distinguish meaning), and phonetic variation consists in differences in pronunciation of the phonemes. [140] This overview mainly describes the standard pronunciations of the United Kingdom and the United States: Received Pronunciation (RP) and General American (GA). (See § Dialects, accents and varieties, below.)
Lists of English words by country or language of origin
^ Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency 2012, Table KS207NI: Main Language.
Daniels, Peter T.; Bright, William, eds. (1996). The World's Writing Systems. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-507993-7. Archived from the original on 19 February 2021. Retrieved 23 February 2015.
Lane Gilmour (29 May 2007). "Review: Sociolinguistics: Leech; Svartvik (2006)". Linguist List. Archived from the original on 22 March 2022. Retrieved 10 March 2022.
Boberg, Charles (2010). The English language in Canada: Status, history and comparative analysis. Studies in English Language. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-139-49144-0.Beau Brock (July 2011). "The English language in Canada: Status, history and comparative analysis (review)". The Canadian Journal of Linguistics. 55 (2): 277–279. doi:10.1353/cjl.2011.0015. S2CID 144445944.
Donoghue, D. (2008).Donoghue, Daniel (ed.). Old English Literature: A Short Introduction. Wiley. doi:10.1002/9780470776025. ISBN 978-0-631-23486-9.
fortis stops: pin [pʰɪn]; spin [spɪn]; happy [ˈhæpi]; nip [nɪp̚] or [nɪʔp]
In the table, when obstruents (stops, affricates, and fricatives) appear in pairs, such as /p b/, /tʃ dʒ/, and /s z/, the first is fortis (strong) and the second is lenis (weak). Fortis obstruents, such as /p tʃ s/ are pronounced with more muscular tension and breath force than lenis consonants, such as /b dʒ z/, and are always voiceless. Lenis consonants are partly voiced at the beginning and end of utterances, and fully voiced between vowels. Fortis stops such as /p/ have additional articulatory or acoustic features in most dialects: they are aspirated [pʰ] when they occur alone at the beginning of a stressed syllable, often unaspirated in other cases, and often unreleased [p̚] or pre-glottalised [ʔp] at the end of a syllable. In a single-syllable word, a vowel before a fortis stop is shortened: thus nip has a noticeably shorter vowel (phonetically, but not phonemically) than nib [nɪˑb̥] (see below).[146]
Durrell, M. (2006). "Germanic Languages".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 53–55. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/02189-1. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Readers of English can generally rely on the correspondence between spelling and pronunciation to be fairly regular for letters or digraphs used to spell consonant sounds. The letters b, d, f, h, j, k, l, m, n, p, r, s, t, v, w, y, z represent, respectively, the phonemes /b, d, f, h, dʒ, k, l, m, n, p, r, s, t, v, w, j, z/. The letters c and g normally represent /k/ and /ɡ/, but there is also a soft c pronounced /s/, and a soft g pronounced /dʒ/. The differences in the pronunciations of the letters c and g are often signalled by the following letters in standard English spelling. Digraphs used to represent phonemes and phoneme sequences include ch for /tʃ/, sh for /ʃ/, th for /θ/ or /ð/, ng for /ŋ/, qu for /kw/, and ph for /f/ in Greek-derived words. The single letter x is generally pronounced as /z/ in word-initial position and as /ks/ otherwise. There are exceptions to these generalisations, often the result of loanwords being spelled according to the spelling patterns of their languages of origin[246] or residues of proposals by scholars in the early period of Modern English to follow the spelling patterns of Latin for English words of Germanic origin.[250]
Hƿæt ƿē Gārde/na ingēar dagum þēod cyninga / þrym ge frunon...
Huddleston, Rodney; Pullum, Geoffrey K. (2002). The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-43146-0. Archived from the original on 12 February 2015. Retrieved 10 February 2015.Peter W. Culicover. "The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language" (PDF). The Ohio State University. Archived (PDF) from the original on 9 December 2014. Retrieved 15 March 2015.
Eagleson, Robert D. (1982). "English in Australia and New Zealand".In Bailey, Richard W.; Görlach, Manfred (eds.). English as a World Language. University of Michigan Press. pp. 415–438. ISBN 978-3-12-533872-2.
Patrick, P. L. (2006b). "English, African-American Vernacular".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 159–163. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/05092-6. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
In the three-circles model, countries such as Poland, China, Brazil, Germany, Japan, Indonesia, Egypt, and other countries where English is taught as a foreign language, make up the "expanding circle".[87] The distinctions between English as a first language, as a second language, and as a foreign language are often debatable and may change in particular countries over time.[86] For example, in the Netherlands and some other countries of Europe, knowledge of English as a second language is nearly universal, with over 80 percent of the population able to use it,[88] and thus English is routinely used to communicate with foreigners and often in higher education. In these countries, although English is not used for government business, its widespread use puts them at the boundary between the "outer circle" and "expanding circle". English is unusual among world languages in how many of its users are not native speakers but speakers of English as a second or foreign language.[89]
Cassidy, Frederic G. (1982). "Geographical Variation of English in the United States".In Bailey, Richard W.; Görlach, Manfred (eds.). English as a World Language. University of Michigan Press. pp. 177–210. ISBN 978-3-12-533872-2.
The consequence of this complex orthographic history is that learning to read and write can be challenging in English. It can take longer for school pupils to become independently fluent readers of English than of many other languages, including Italian, Spanish, and German.[251] Nonetheless, there is an advantage for learners of English reading in learning the specific sound-symbol regularities that occur in the standard English spellings of commonly used words.[246] Such instruction greatly reduces the risk of children experiencing reading difficulties in English.[252][253] Making primary school teachers more aware of the primacy of morpheme representation in English may help learners learn more efficiently to read and write English.[254]
^ a b Gay, Eric Martin (2014). Old English and Old Norse: An Inquiry into Intelligibility and Categorization Methodology (MA thesis). University of South Carolina. Archived from the original on 16 December 2022. Retrieved 16 December 2022.
Peter W. Culicover. "The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language" (PDF). The Ohio State University. Archived (PDF) from the original on 9 December 2014. Retrieved 15 March 2015.
English adjectives are words such as good, big, interesting, and Canadian that most typically modify nouns, denoting characteristics of their referents (e.g., a red car). As modifiers, they come before the nouns they modify and after determiners.[181] English adjectives also function as predicative complements (e.g., the child is happy).
Maclagan, Margaret (2010). "Chapter 8: The English(es) of New Zealand".In Kirkpatrick, Andy (ed.). The Routledge handbook of world Englishes. Routledge. pp. 151–164. ISBN 978-0-203-84932-3.Dragana Šurkalović (2 July 2011). "Review of The Routledge Handbook of World Englishes". Linguist List. Archived from the original on 10 March 2022. Retrieved 10 March 2022.
Thomas, Erik R. (2003), "Rural White Southern Accents" (PDF), Atlas of North American English (online), Mouton de Gruyter, p. 16, archived from the original (PDF) on 22 December 2014, retrieved 11 November 2015 [Later published as a chapter in: Bernd Kortmann and Edgar W. Schneider (eds) (2004). A Handbook of Varieties of English: A Multimedia Reference Tool. New York: Mouton de Gruyter, pp. 300–324.]
North American English has been regarded as fairly homogeneous compared to British English but this has been disputed.[269] Today, American accent variation is often increasing at the regional level and decreasing at the very local level,[270] though most Americans still speak within a phonological continuum of similar accents,[271] known collectively as General American (GA), with differences hardly noticed even among Americans themselves (such as Midland and Western American English).[272][273][274] In most American and Canadian English dialects, rhoticity (or r-fulness) is dominant, with non-rhoticity (r-dropping) becoming associated with lower prestige and social class especially after World War II; this contrasts with the situation in England, where non-rhoticity has become the standard.[275]
Bailey, Guy (2001). "Chapter 3: The relationship between African American and White Vernaculars".In Lanehart, Sonja L. (ed.). Sociocultural and historical contexts of African American English. Varieties of English around the World. John Benjamins. pp. 53–84. ISBN 978-1-58811-046-6.
Swan, M. (2006). "English in the Present Day (Since ca. 1900)".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 149–156. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/05058-6. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
English, besides forming new words from existing words and their roots, also borrows words from other languages. This adoption of words from other languages is commonplace in many world languages, but English has been especially open to borrowing of foreign words throughout the last 1,000 years.[230] The most commonly used words in English are West Germanic.[231] The words in English learned first by children as they learn to speak, particularly the grammatical words that dominate the word count of both spoken and written texts, are mainly the Germanic words inherited from the earliest periods of the development of Old English.[224]
^ Crawford, James (1 February 2012). "Language Legislation in the U.S.A." languagepolicy.net. Archived from the original on 16 November 2020. Retrieved 29 May 2013.
^ Wycliffe, John. "Bible" (PDF). Wesley NNU. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2 February 2017. Retrieved 9 April 2015.
(Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
English is a West Germanic language in the Indo-European language family, with its earliest forms spoken by the inhabitants of early medieval England.[3][4][5] It is named after the Angles, one of the ancient Germanic peoples that migrated to the island of Great Britain. Existing on a dialect continuum with Scots and then most closely related to the Low German and Frisian languages, English is genealogically Germanic. However, its vocabulary also shows major influences from French (about 28% of Modern English words) and Latin (also about 28%),[6] plus some grammar and a small amount of core vocabulary influenced by Old Norse (a North Germanic language).[7][8][9] Speakers of English are called Anglophones.
In both RP and GA, vowels are phonetically shortened before fortis consonants in the same syllable, like /t tʃ f/, but not before lenis consonants like /d dʒ v/ or in open syllables: thus, the vowels of rich [rɪtʃ], neat [nit], and safe [seɪ̯f] are noticeably shorter than the vowels of ridge [rɪˑdʒ], need [niˑd], and save [seˑɪ̯v], and the vowel of light [laɪ̯t] is shorter than that of lie [laˑɪ̯]. Because lenis consonants are frequently voiceless at the end of a syllable, vowel length is an important cue as to whether the following consonant is lenis or fortis.[151]
American listeners generally readily understand most British broadcasting, and British listeners readily understand most American broadcasting. Most English speakers around the world can understand radio programmes, television programmes, and films from many parts of the English-speaking world.[99] Both standard and non-standard varieties of English can include both formal or informal styles, distinguished by word choice and syntax and use both technical and non-technical registers.[100]
International Dialects of English Archive – recordings of English dialects and international L2 accents
Gneuss, Helmut (2013). "Chapter 2: The Old English Language".In Godden, Malcolm; Lapidge, Michael (eds.). The Cambridge companion to Old English literature (Second ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp. 19–49. ISBN 978-0-521-15402-4.
English determiners are words such as the, each, many, some, and which, occurring most typically in noun phrases before the head nouns and any modifiers and marking the noun phrase as definite or indefinite.[184] They often agree with the noun in number. They do not typically inflect for degree of comparison.
Conrad, Andrew W.; Rubal-Lopez, Alma (1996). Post-Imperial English: Status Change in Former British and American Colonies, 1940–1990. de Gruyter. p. 261. ISBN 978-3-11-087218-7. Archived from the original on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 2 April 2015.
Cercignani, Fausto (1981). Shakespeare's works and Elizabethan pronunciation. Clarendon Press. ISBN 978-0-19-811937-1. JSTOR 3728688. Archived from the original on 19 March 2015. Retrieved 14 March 2015.
Old English and Old Norse: An Inquiry into Intelligibility and Categorization Methodology
Bermúdez-Otero, Ricardo; McMahon, April (2006). "Chapter 17: English phonology and morphology".In Bas Aarts; April McMahon (eds.). The Handbook of English Linguistics. Oxford: Blackwell. pp. 382–410. doi:10.1111/b.9781405113823.2006.00018.x. ISBN 978-1-4051-6425-2. Archived from the original on 3 April 2017. Retrieved 2 April 2015.
Some traits typical of Germanic languages persist in English, such as the distinction between irregularly inflected strong stems inflected through ablaut (i.e. changing the vowel of the stem, as in the pairs speak/spoke and foot/feet) and weak stems inflected through affixation (such as love/loved, hand/hands).[175] Vestiges of the case and gender system are found in the pronoun system (he/him, who/whom) and in the inflection of the copula verb to be.[175]
^ Crystal, David; Potter, Simeon (editors). "English language: Historical background". Encyclopædia Britannica. Dec. 2021.
List of countries and territories where English is an official language
As decolonisation proceeded throughout the British Empire in the 1950s and 1960s, former colonies often did not reject English but rather continued to use it as independent countries setting their own language policies.[56][57][109] For example, the view of the English language among many Indians has gone from associating it with colonialism to associating it with economic progress, and English continues to be an official language of India.[110] English is also widely used in media and literature, and the number of English language books published annually in India is the third largest in the world after the US and UK.[111] However English is rarely spoken as a first language, numbering only around a couple hundred-thousand people, and less than 5% of the population speak fluent English in India.[112][113] David Crystal claimed in 2004 that, combining native and non-native speakers, India now has more people who speak or understand English than any other country in the world,[114] but the number of English speakers in India is uncertain, with most scholars concluding that the United States still has more speakers of English than India.[115]
Countries and territories where English is the national language or the native language of the majority
In Ireland, various forms of English have been spoken since the Norman invasions of the 11th century. In County Wexford, in the area surrounding Dublin, two extinct dialects known as Forth and Bargy and Fingallian developed as offshoots from Early Middle English, and were spoken until the 19th century. Modern Irish English, however, has its roots in English colonisation in the 17th century. Today Irish English is divided into Ulster English, the Northern Ireland dialect with strong influence from Scots, and various dialects of the Republic of Ireland. Like Scottish and most North American accents, almost all Irish accents preserve the rhoticity which has been lost in the dialects influenced by RP.[22][268]
International Phonetic Association (1999). Handbook of the International Phonetic Association: A guide to the use of the International Phonetic Alphabet. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-65236-0.
"English". Merriam-webster.com. 26 February 2015. Archived from the original on 25 March 2015. Retrieved 26 February 2015.
Larry LaFond (6 April 2012). "Review: Applied Ling.; General Ling.; Ling. Theories; Socioling.: Watts (2011)". Linguist List. Archived from the original on 10 March 2022. Retrieved 10 March 2022.
^ Baugh, Albert (1951). A History of the English Language. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul. pp. 60–83, 110–130
^ Burnley, David (1992). "LEXIS AND SEMANTICS". In N. Blake (Ed.), The Cambridge History of the English Language (The Cambridge History of the English Language, pp. 409-499). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/CHOL9780521264754.006: "Latin and French each account for a little more than 28 per cent of the lexis recorded in the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary (Finkenstaedt & Wolff 1973)".
"The Routes of English". 1 August 2015. Archived from the original on 24 October 2015. Retrieved 9 August 2015.
^ a b Ian Short, A Companion to the Anglo-Norman World, "Language and Literature", Boydell & Brewer Ltd, 2007. (p. 193)
English has undergone many historical sound changes, some of them affecting all varieties, and others affecting only a few. Most standard varieties are affected by the Great Vowel Shift, which changed the pronunciation of long vowels, but a few dialects have slightly different results. In North America, a number of chain shifts such as the Northern Cities Vowel Shift and Canadian Shift have produced very different vowel landscapes in some regional accents.[166]
The earliest form of English is called Old English or Anglo-Saxon (c. 550–1066). Old English developed from a set of West Germanic dialects, often grouped as Anglo-Frisian or North Sea Germanic, and originally spoken along the coasts of Frisia, Lower Saxony and southern Jutland by Germanic peoples known to the historical record as the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes.[28][29] From the 5th century, the Anglo-Saxons settled Britain as the Roman economy and administration collapsed. By the 7th century, the Germanic language of the Anglo-Saxons became dominant in Britain, replacing the languages of Roman Britain (43–409): Common Brittonic, a Celtic language, and Latin, brought to Britain by the Roman occupation.[30][31][32] England and English (originally Ænglaland and Ænglisc) are named after the Angles.[33]
^ "States with Official English Laws". us-english.org. Archived from the original on 15 May 2013. Retrieved 29 May 2013.
Burridge, Kate (2010). "Chapter 7: English in Australia".In Kirkpatrick, Andy (ed.). The Routledge handbook of world Englishes. Routledge. pp. 132–151. ISBN 978-0-415-62264-6.Dragana Šurkalović (2 July 2011). "Review of The Routledge Handbook of World Englishes". Linguist List. Archived from the original on 10 March 2022. Retrieved 10 March 2022.
"How many words are there in the English language?". Oxford Dictionaries Online. Oxford University Press. 2015. Archived from the original on 30 November 2011. Retrieved 2 April 2015. How many words are there in the English language? There is no single sensible answer to this question. It's impossible to count the number of words in a language, because it's so hard to decide what actually counts as a word.
^ "3". The Handbook of World Englishes. Wiley. 2020. p. 45. ISBN 9781119164210. American English has traditionally been perceived as relatively homogeneous, at least in comparison with British dialects... However... others strongly opposed this notion
Cruttenden, Alan (2014). Gimson's Pronunciation of English (8th ed.). Routledge. ISBN 978-1-4441-8309-2.
Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency (2012). "Census 2011: Key Statistics for Northern Ireland December 2012" (PDF). Statistics Bulletin. Table KS207NI: Main Language. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 December 2012. Retrieved 16 December 2014.
Li, David C. S. (2003). "Between English and Esperanto: what does it take to be a world language?". International Journal of the Sociology of Language. 2003 (164): 33–63. doi:10.1515/ijsl.2003.055. ISSN 0165-2516.
In modern English, the loss of grammatical case is almost complete (it is now only found in pronouns, such as he and him, she and her, who and whom), and SVO word order is mostly fixed.[62] Some changes, such as the use of do-support, have become universalised. (Earlier English did not use the word "do" as a general auxiliary as Modern English does; at first it was only used in question constructions, and even then was not obligatory.[63] Now, do-support with the verb have is becoming increasingly standardised.) The use of progressive forms in -ing, appears to be spreading to new constructions, and forms such as had been being built are becoming more common. Regularisation of irregular forms also slowly continues (e.g. dreamed instead of dreamt), and analytical alternatives to inflectional forms are becoming more common (e.g. more polite instead of politer). British English is also undergoing change under the influence of American English, fuelled by the strong presence of American English in the media and the prestige associated with the US as a world power.[64][65][66]
In most sentences, English only marks grammatical relations through word order.[208] The subject constituent precedes the verb and the object constituent follows it. The example below demonstrates how the grammatical roles of each constituent are marked only by the position relative to the verb:
Both the second and third persons share pronouns between the plural and singular:
König, Ekkehard; van der Auwera, Johan, eds. (1994). The Germanic Languages. Routledge Language Family Descriptions. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-28079-2. JSTOR 4176538. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 26 February 2015. The survey of the Germanic branch languages includes chapters by Winfred P. Lehmann, Ans van Kemenade, John Ole Askedal, Erik Andersson, Neil Jacobs, Silke Van Ness, and Suzanne Romaine.
"Population by mother tongue and age groups (total), 2011 counts, for Canada, provinces and territories"
Connell, B. A. (2006). "Nigeria: Language Situation".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 88–90. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/01655-2. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 25 March 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
^ Leech 2006, p. 69: "Nominative is a traditional name for the subjective case"
Office for National Statistics (4 March 2013). "Language in England and Wales, 2011". 2011 Census Analysis. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 16 December 2014.
The increased use of the English language globally has had an effect on other languages, leading to some English words being assimilated into the vocabularies of other languages. This influence of English has led to concerns about language death,[133] and to claims of linguistic imperialism,[134] and has provoked resistance to the spread of English; however the number of speakers continues to increase because many people around the world think that English provides them with opportunities for better employment and improved lives.[135]
Montgomery, M. (1993). "The Southern Accent—Alive and Well". Southern Cultures. 1 (1): 47–64. doi:10.1353/scu.1993.0006. S2CID 143984864.
Human Development in India: Challenges for a Society in Transition (PDF). Oxford University Press. 2005. ISBN 978-0-19-806512-8. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 December 2015. Retrieved 5 January 2016.
.mw-parser-output .citation{word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}Wells, John C. (1982). Accents of English. Volume 1: An Introduction (pp. i–xx, 1–278), Volume 2: The British Isles (pp. i–xx, 279–466), Volume 3: Beyond the British Isles (pp. i–xx, 467–674). Cambridge University Press.ISBN 0-52129719-2 , 0-52128540-2 , 0-52128541-0 .
The pronunciation of vowels varies a great deal between dialects and is one of the most detectable aspects of a speaker's accent. The table below lists the vowel phonemes in Received Pronunciation (RP) and General American (GA), with examples of words in which they occur from lexical sets compiled by linguists. The vowels are represented with symbols from the International Phonetic Alphabet; those given for RP are standard in British dictionaries and other publications.[150]
^ Shore, Thomas William (1906), Origin of the Anglo-Saxon Race – A Study of the Settlement of England and the Tribal Origin of the Old English People (1st ed.), London, pp. 3, 393
Romaine, S. (2006). "Language Policy in Multilingual Educational Contexts".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 584–596. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/00646-5. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Further aspectual distinctions are shown by auxiliary verbs, primarily have and be, which show the contrast between a perfect and non-perfect past tense (I have run vs. I was running), and compound tenses such as preterite perfect (I had been running) and present perfect (I have been running).[203]
But one of the consequences of long language contact between French and English in all stages of their development is that the vocabulary of English has a very high percentage of "Latinate" words (derived from French, especially, and also from other Romance languages and Latin). French words from various periods of the development of French now make up one-third of the vocabulary of English.[232] Linguist Anthony Lacoudre estimated that over 40,000 English words are of French origin and may be understood without orthographical change by French speakers.[233] Words of Old Norse origin have entered the English language primarily from the contact between Old Norse and Old English during colonisation of eastern and northern England. Many of these words are part of English core vocabulary, such as egg and knife.[234]
"How English evolved into a global language". BBC. 20 December 2010. Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 9 August 2015.
As a historical legacy, Indian English tends to take RP as its ideal, and how well this ideal is realised in an individual's speech reflects class distinctions among Indian English speakers. Indian English accents are marked by the pronunciation of phonemes such as /t/ and /d/ (often pronounced with retroflex articulation as [ʈ] and [ɖ]) and the replacement of /θ/ and /ð/ with dentals [t̪] and [d̪]. Sometimes Indian English speakers may also use spelling based pronunciations where the silent ⟨h⟩ found in words such as ghost is pronounced as an Indian voiced aspirated stop [ɡʱ].[304]
Today spoken primarily by working- and middle-class African Americans, African-American Vernacular English (AAVE) is also largely non-rhotic and likely originated among enslaved Africans and African Americans influenced primarily by the non-rhotic, non-standard older Southern dialects. A minority of linguists,[284] contrarily, propose that AAVE mostly traces back to African languages spoken by the slaves who had to develop a pidgin or Creole English to communicate with slaves of other ethnic and linguistic origins.[285] AAVE's important commonalities with Southern accents suggests it developed into a highly coherent and homogeneous variety in the 19th or early 20th century. AAVE is commonly stigmatised in North America as a form of "broken" or "uneducated" English, as are white Southern accents, but linguists today recognise both as fully developed varieties of English with their own norms shared by a large speech community.[286][287]
^ Williams, Joseph M. (1986). Origins of the English Language: A Social and Linguistic History. ISBN 978-0-02-934470-5.
Deumert, A. (2006). "Migration and Language".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 129–133. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/01294-3. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Origins of the English Language: A Social and Linguistic History
Brutt-Griffler, J. (2006). "Languages of Wider Communication".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 690–697. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/00644-1. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
English pronouns conserve many traits of case and gender inflection. The personal pronouns retain a difference between subjective and objective case in most persons (I/me, he/him, she/her, we/us, they/them) as well as an animateness distinction in the third person singular (distinguishing it from the three sets of animate third person singular pronouns) and an optional gender distinction in the animate third person singular (distinguishing between she/her [feminine], they/them [epicene], and he/him [masculine]).[185][186] The subjective case corresponds to the Old English nominative case, and the objective case is used in the sense both of the previous accusative case (for a patient, or direct object of a transitive verb), and of the Old English dative case (for a recipient or indirect object of a transitive verb).[187][188] The subjective is used when the pronoun is the subject of a finite clause, otherwise the objective is used.[189] While grammarians such as Henry Sweet[190] and Otto Jespersen[191] noted that the English cases did not correspond to the traditional Latin-based system, some contemporary grammars, for example Huddleston & Pullum (2002), retain traditional labels for the cases, calling them nominative and accusative cases respectively.
Neijt, A. (2006). "Spelling Reform".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 68–71. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/04574-0. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Labov, W. (1972). "13. The Social Stratification of (R) in New York City Department Stores". Sociolinguistic patterns. University of Pennsylvania Press.
Crystal, David (2002). Language Death. Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/CBO9781139106856. ISBN 978-1-139-10685-6. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 25 February 2015.
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
General American and Received Pronunciation vary in their pronunciation of historical /r/ after a vowel at the end of a syllable (in the syllable coda). GA is a rhotic dialect, meaning that it pronounces /r/ at the end of a syllable, but RP is non-rhotic, meaning that it loses /r/ in that position. English dialects are classified as rhotic or non-rhotic depending on whether they elide /r/ like RP or keep it like GA.[170]
Pie chart showing the percentage of native English speakers living in "inner circle" English-speaking countries. Native speakers are now substantially outnumbered worldwide by second-language speakers of English (not counted in this chart).
Indirect objects (IO) of ditransitive verbs can be placed either as the first object in a double object construction (S V IO O), such as I gave Jane the book or in a prepositional phrase, such as I gave the book to Jane.[210]
Baker, Colin (1998). Encyclopedia of Bilingualism and Bilingual Education. Multilingual Matters. p. 311. ISBN 978-1-85359-362-8. Archived from the original on 20 January 2021. Retrieved 27 August 2017.
McCrum, Robert; MacNeil, Robert; Cran, William (2003). The Story of English (Third Revised ed.). London: Penguin Books. ISBN 978-0-14-200231-5.
^ O'Dwyer 2006: "English has subjective, objective and possessive cases."
A working knowledge of English has become a requirement in a number of occupations and professions such as medicine[130] and computing. English has become so important in scientific publishing that more than 80 percent of all scientific journal articles indexed by Chemical Abstracts in 1998 were written in English, as were 90 percent of all articles in natural science publications by 1996 and 82 percent of articles in humanities publications by 1995.[131]
The earliest forms of English, collectively known as "Old English", evolved from a group of North Sea Germanic dialects brought to Great Britain by Anglo-Saxon settlers in the 5th century and further mutated by Norse-speaking Viking settlers starting in the 8th and 9th centuries. Middle English began in the late 11th century after the Norman Conquest of England, when considerable Old French (especially Old Norman French) and Latin-derived vocabulary was incorporated into English over some three hundred years.[10][11] Early Modern English began in the late 15th century with the start of the Great Vowel Shift and the Renaissance trend of borrowing further Latin and Greek words and roots into English, concurrent with the introduction of the printing press to London. This era notably culminated in the King James Bible and the works of William Shakespeare.[12][13]
"Oxford Learner's Dictionaries". Oxford. Archived from the original on 9 February 2015. Retrieved 25 February 2015.
Schönweitz, Thomas (2001). "Gender and Postvocalic /r/ in the American South: A Detailed Socioregional Analysis". American Speech. 76 (3): 259–285. doi:10.1215/00031283-76-3-259. S2CID 144403823.
"Summary by language size". Ethnologue: Languages of the World. Archived from the original on 26 December 2018. Retrieved 10 February 2015.
Varieties of English vary the most in pronunciation of vowels. The best known national varieties used as standards for education in non-English-speaking countries are British (BrE) and American (AmE). Countries such as Canada, Australia, Ireland, New Zealand and South Africa have their own standard varieties which are less often used as standards for education internationally. Some differences between the various dialects are shown in the table "Varieties of Standard English and their features".[165]
The first significant exposure of the Philippines to the English language occurred in 1762 when the British occupied Manila during the Seven Years' War, but this was a brief episode that had no lasting influence. English later became more important and widespread during American rule between 1898 and 1946, and remains an official language of the Philippines. Today, the use of English is ubiquitous in the Philippines, from street signs and marquees, government documents and forms, courtrooms, the media and entertainment industries, the business sector, and other aspects of daily life. One such usage that is also prominent in the country is in speech, where most Filipinos from Manila would use or have been exposed to Taglish, a form of code-switching between Tagalog and English. A similar code-switching method is used by urban native speakers of Bisayan languages called Bislish.
^ "Countries in which English Language is a Mandatory or an Optional Subject". www.uwinnipeg.ca. The University of Winnipeg. Archived from the original on 31 October 2022. Retrieved 30 October 2022.
Possession can be expressed either by the possessive enclitic -s (also traditionally called a genitive suffix), or by the preposition of. Historically the -s possessive has been used for animate nouns, whereas the of possessive has been reserved for inanimate nouns. Today this distinction is less clear, and many speakers use -s also with inanimates. Orthographically the possessive -s is separated from a singular noun with an apostrophe. If the noun is plural formed with -s the apostrophe follows the -s.[174]
Robert D. Angus (Winter 2012). "LEECH, L., M. HUNDT, C. MAIR & N. SMITH. Change in contemporary English: A grammatical study" (PDF). California Linguistic Notes. Vol. XXXVII, no. 1. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 April 2015.
"L'incroyable histoire des mots français dans la langue anglaise". Daily Motion (in French). Archived from the original on 22 November 2018. Retrieved 20 November 2018.
Sailaja, Pingali (2009). Indian English. Dialects of English. Edinburgh University Press. ISBN 978-0-7486-2595-6. Archived from the original on 23 March 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
^ a b Baugh, Albert; Cable, Thomas (2012). A history of the English language (6th ed.). Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-65596-5.
"Which countries are best at English as a second language?". World Economic Forum. Archived from the original on 25 November 2016. Retrieved 29 November 2016.
Wycliffe, John. "Bible" (PDF). Wesley NNU. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2 February 2017. Retrieved 9 April 2015.
Modern English has spread around the world since the 17th century as a consequence of the worldwide influence of the British Empire and the United States of America. Through all types of printed and electronic media in these countries, English has become the leading language of international discourse and the lingua franca in many regions and professional contexts such as science, navigation, and law.[3] English is the most spoken language in the world[15] and the third most spoken native language in the world, after Standard Chinese and Spanish.[16] It is the most widely learned second language and is either the official language or one of the official languages in 59 sovereign states. There are more people who have learned English as a second language than there are native speakers. As of 2005[update], it was estimated that there were over 2 billion speakers of English.[17] English is the majority native language in the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the Republic of Ireland (see Anglosphere) and is widely spoken in some areas of the Caribbean, Africa, South Asia, Southeast Asia, and Oceania.[18] It is the co-official language of the United Nations, the European Union, and many other international and regional organisations. English accounts for at least 70% of speakers of the Germanic language branch of the Indo-European family.
Leech, G. N. (2006). A glossary of English grammar. Edinburgh University Press.
Lass, Roger (1992). "2. Phonology and Morphology".In Blake, Norman (ed.). Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. II: 1066–1476. Cambridge University Press. pp. 23–154.
Although letters and speech sounds do not have a one-to-one correspondence in standard English spelling, spelling rules that take into account syllable structure, phonetic changes in derived words, and word accent are reliable for most English words.[246] Moreover, standard English spelling shows etymological relationships between related words that would be obscured by a closer correspondence between pronunciation and spelling, for example the words photograph, photography, and photographic,[246] or the words electricity and electrical. While few scholars agree with Chomsky and Halle (1968) that conventional English orthography is "near-optimal",[243] there is a rationale for current English spelling patterns.[247] The standard orthography of English is the most widely used writing system in the world.[248] Standard English spelling is based on a graphomorphemic segmentation of words into written clues of what meaningful units make up each word.[249]
Nouns can form noun phrases (NPs) where they are the syntactic head of the words that depend on them such as determiners, quantifiers, conjunctions or adjectives.[179] Noun phrases can be short, such as the man, composed only of a determiner and a noun. They can also include modifiers such as adjectives (e.g. red, tall, all) and specifiers such as determiners (e.g. the, that). But they can also tie together several nouns into a single long NP, using conjunctions such as and, or prepositions such as with, e.g. the tall man with the long red trousers and his skinny wife with the spectacles (this NP uses conjunctions, prepositions, specifiers, and modifiers). Regardless of length, an NP functions as a syntactic unit.[174] For example, the possessive enclitic can, in cases which do not lead to ambiguity, follow the entire noun phrase, as in The President of India's wife, where the enclitic follows India and not President.
Denning, Keith; Kessler, Brett; Leben, William Ronald (17 February 2007). English Vocabulary Elements. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-516803-7. Archived from the original on 20 March 2015. Retrieved 25 February 2015.
Unlike Icelandic and Faroese, which were isolated, the development of English was influenced by a long series of invasions of the British Isles by other peoples and languages, particularly Old Norse and Norman French. These left a profound mark of their own on the language, so that English shows some similarities in vocabulary and grammar with many languages outside its linguistic clades—but it is not mutually intelligible with any of those languages either. Some scholars have argued that English can be considered a mixed language or a creole—a theory called the Middle English creole hypothesis. Although the great influence of these languages on the vocabulary and grammar of Modern English is widely acknowledged, most specialists in language contact do not consider English to be a true mixed language.[24][25]
^ "Sentence stress". ESOL Nexus. British Council. Archived from the original on 3 December 2019. Retrieved 24 November 2019.
Trudgill, Peter (1999). The Dialects of England (2nd ed.). Oxford: Blackwell. ISBN 978-0-631-21815-9.
Most count nouns are inflected for plural number through the use of the plural suffix -s, but a few nouns have irregular plural forms. Mass nouns can only be pluralised through the use of a count noun classifier, e.g. one loaf of bread, two loaves of bread.[178]
From the 8th to the 12th century, Old English gradually transformed through language contact into Middle English. Middle English is often arbitrarily defined as beginning with the conquest of England by William the Conqueror in 1066, but it developed further in the period from 1200 to 1450.
Scots is today considered a separate language from English, but it has its origins in early Northern Middle English[266] and developed and changed during its history with influence from other sources, particularly Scots Gaelic and Old Norse. Scots itself has a number of regional dialects. And in addition to Scots, Scottish English comprises the varieties of Standard English spoken in Scotland; most varieties are Northern English accents, with some influence from Scots.[267]
National Records of Scotland (26 September 2013). "Census 2011: Release 2A". Scotland's Census 2011. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 25 March 2015.
Nonetheless, this attrition has mostly affected dialectal variation in grammar and vocabulary, and in fact, only 3 percent of the English population actually speak RP, the remainder speaking in regional accents and dialects with varying degrees of RP influence.[258] There is also variability within RP, particularly along class lines between Upper and Middle-class RP speakers and between native RP speakers and speakers who adopt RP later in life.[259] Within Britain, there is also considerable variation along lines of social class, and some traits though exceedingly common are considered "non-standard" and are associated with lower class speakers and identities. An example of this is h-dropping, which was historically a feature of lower-class London English, particularly Cockney, and can now be heard in the local accents of most parts of England—yet it remains largely absent in broadcasting and among the upper crust of British society.[260]
Greenbaum, S.; Nelson, G. (2002). An introduction to English grammar (Second ed.). Longman. ISBN 978-0-582-43741-8.
Ian Short, A Companion to the Anglo-Norman World, "Language and Literature", Boydell & Brewer Ltd, 2007. (p. 193)
"Welcome, singular "they"". American Psychological Association. Archived from the original on 14 February 2020. Retrieved 24 November 2021.
Crystal, David (2003b). The Cambridge Encyclopedia of the English Language (2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-53033-0. Archived from the original on 11 May 2021. Retrieved 4 February 2015.
Mesthrie, Rajend (2010). "New Englishes and the native speaker debate". Language Sciences. 32 (6): 594–601. doi:10.1016/j.langsci.2010.08.002. ISSN 0388-0001. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Trudgill, Peter (2006). "Accent".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. p. 14. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/01506-6. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
Shore, Thomas William (1906), Origin of the Anglo-Saxon Race – A Study of the Settlement of England and the Tribal Origin of the Old English People (1st ed.), London, pp. 3, 393
Bauer, Laurie; Huddleston, Rodney (2002). "Chapter 19: Lexical Word-Formation".In Huddleston, Rodney; Pullum, Geoffrey K. (eds.). The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 1621–1721. ISBN 978-0-521-43146-0. Archived from the original on 12 February 2015. Retrieved 10 February 2015.Peter W. Culicover. "The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language" (PDF). The Ohio State University. Archived (PDF) from the original on 9 December 2014. Retrieved 15 March 2015.
Wardhaugh, Ronald (2010). An Introduction to Sociolinguistics. Blackwell textbooks in Linguistics; 4 (Sixth ed.). Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN 978-1-4051-8668-1.
"Cases of Nouns and Pronouns". Guide to Grammar and Writing. Archived from the original on 16 November 2019. Retrieved 24 November 2019.
English does not have future verb forms.[200] The future tense is expressed periphrastically with one of the auxiliary verbs will or shall.[201] Many varieties also use a near future constructed with the phrasal verb be going to ("going-to future").[202]
Thomason, Sarah G.; Kaufman, Terrence (1988). Language Contact, Creolization and Genetic Linguistics. University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-91279-3.
Gordin, Michael D. (4 February 2015). "Absolute English". Aeon. Archived from the original on 7 February 2015. Retrieved 16 February 2015.
5.2Verbs and verb phrases																								5.2.1Tense, aspect and mood																											5.2.2Phrasal verbs																											5.2.3Adverbs
Collins, Beverley; Mees, Inger M. (2003) [First published 1981]. The Phonetics of English and Dutch (5th ed.). Leiden: Brill Publishers. ISBN 978-90-04-10340-5.
Those countries have millions of native speakers of dialect continua ranging from an English-based creole to a more standard version of English. They have many more speakers of English who acquire English as they grow up through day-to-day use and listening to broadcasting, especially if they attend schools where English is the medium of instruction. Varieties of English learned by non-native speakers born to English-speaking parents may be influenced, especially in their grammar, by the other languages spoken by those learners.[79] Most of those varieties of English include words little used by native speakers of English in the inner-circle countries,[79] and they may show grammatical and phonological differences from inner-circle varieties as well. The standard English of the inner-circle countries is often taken as a norm for use of English in the outer-circle countries.[79]
English is an Indo-European language and belongs to the West Germanic group of the Germanic languages.[19] Old English originated from a Germanic tribal and linguistic continuum along the Frisian North Sea coast, whose languages gradually evolved into the Anglic languages in the British Isles, and into the Frisian languages and Low German/Low Saxon on the continent. The Frisian languages, which together with the Anglic languages form the Anglo-Frisian languages, are the closest living relatives of English. Low German/Low Saxon is also closely related, and sometimes English, the Frisian languages, and Low German are grouped together as the Ingvaeonic (North Sea Germanic) languages, though this grouping remains debated.[8] Old English evolved into Middle English, which in turn evolved into Modern English.[20] Particular dialects of Old and Middle English also developed into a number of other Anglic languages, including Scots[21] and the extinct Fingallian and Forth and Bargy (Yola) dialects of Ireland.[22]
Northrup, David (2013). How English Became the Global Language. Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-1-137-30306-6. Archived from the original on 5 September 2015. Retrieved 25 March 2015.
With of: The child of the husband of the woman
Denison, David; Hogg, Richard M. (2006). "Overview".In Denison, David; Hogg, Richard M. (eds.). A History of the English language. Cambridge University Press. pp. 30–31. ISBN 978-0-521-71799-1.
Görlach, Manfred (1991). Introduction to Early Modern English. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-32529-5.
Crystal, David (2003a). English as a Global Language (2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 69. ISBN 978-0-521-53032-3. Archived from the original on 11 May 2021. Retrieved 4 February 2015.
Since 1788, English has been spoken in Oceania, and Australian English has developed as a first language of the vast majority of the inhabitants of the Australian continent, its standard accent being General Australian. The English of neighbouring New Zealand has to a lesser degree become an influential standard variety of the language.[288] Australian and New Zealand English are each other's closest relatives with few differentiating characteristics, followed by South African English and the English of southeastern England, all of which have similarly non-rhotic accents, aside from some accents in the South Island of New Zealand. Australian and New Zealand English stand out for their innovative vowels: many short vowels are fronted or raised, whereas many long vowels have diphthongised. Australian English also has a contrast between long and short vowels, not found in most other varieties. Australian English grammar aligns closely to British and American English; like American English, collective plural subjects take on a singular verb (as in the government is rather than are).[289][290] New Zealand English uses front vowels that are often even higher than in Australian English.[291][292][293]
Jambor, Paul Z. (2007). "English Language Imperialism: Points of View". Journal of English as an International Language. 2: 103–123.
Modern English, sometimes described as the first global lingua franca,[59][116] is also regarded as the first world language.[117][118] English is the world's most widely used language in newspaper publishing, book publishing, international telecommunications, scientific publishing, international trade, mass entertainment, and diplomacy.[118] English is, by international treaty, the basis for the required controlled natural languages[119] Seaspeak and Airspeak, used as international languages of seafaring[120] and aviation.[121] English used to have parity with French and German in scientific research, but now it dominates that field.[122] It achieved parity with French as a language of diplomacy at the Treaty of Versailles negotiations in 1919.[123] By the time of the foundation of the United Nations at the end of World War II, English had become pre-eminent[124] and is now the main worldwide language of diplomacy and international relations.[125] It is one of six official languages of the United Nations.[126] Many other worldwide international organisations, including the International Olympic Committee, specify English as a working language or official language of the organisation.
Bailey, G. (1997). "When did southern American English begin".In Edgar W. Schneider (ed.). Englishes around the world. pp. 255–275.
^ "Which countries are best at English as a second language?". World Economic Forum. Archived from the original on 25 November 2016. Retrieved 29 November 2016.
Several varieties of English are also spoken in the Caribbean islands that were colonial possessions of Britain, including Jamaica, and the Leeward and Windward Islands and Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, the Cayman Islands, and Belize. Each of these areas is home both to a local variety of English and a local English-based creole, combining English and African languages. The most prominent varieties are Jamaican English and Jamaican Creole. In Central America, English-based creoles are spoken in on the Caribbean coasts of Nicaragua and Panama.[299] Locals are often fluent both in the local English variety and the local creole languages and code-switching between them is frequent, indeed another way to conceptualise the relationship between Creole and Standard varieties is to see a spectrum of social registers with the Creole forms serving as "basilect" and the more RP-like forms serving as the "acrolect", the most formal register.[300]
In the third person, the they/them series of pronouns (they, them, their, theirs, themselves) are used in both plural and singular, and are the only pronouns available for the plural. In the singular, the they/them series (sometimes with the addition of the singular-specific reflexive form themself) serve as a gender-neutral set of pronouns. These pronouns are becoming more accepted as part of the LGBT culture.[185][193][194]
Barry, Michael V. (1982). "English in Ireland".In Bailey, Richard W.; Görlach, Manfred (eds.). English as a World Language. University of Michigan Press. pp. 84–134. ISBN 978-3-12-533872-2.
Miller, Jim (2002). An Introduction to English Syntax. Edinburgh University Press.
Reading in the Brain: The Science and Evolution of a Human Invention
"Countries in which English Language is a Mandatory or an Optional Subject"
Halliday, M. A. K.; Hasan, Ruqaiya (1976). Cohesion in English. Pearson Education ltd.
Baugh, Albert; Cable, Thomas (2012). A history of the English language (6th ed.). Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-65596-5.
^ Crystal, David (2008). "Two thousand million?". English Today. 24 (1): 3–6. doi:10.1017/S0266078408000023. S2CID 145597019.
Meierkord, C. (2006). "Lingua Francas as Second Languages".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 163–171. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/00641-6. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
8Dialects, accents and varieties											Toggle Dialects, accents and varieties subsection																					8.1Britain and Ireland																											8.2North America																											8.3Australia and New Zealand																											8.4Southeast Asia																											8.5Africa, the Caribbean, and South Asia
^ "How many words are there in the English language?". Oxford Dictionaries. Archived from the original on 9 September 2017. Retrieved 13 September 2017.
^ "Do You Speak American: What Lies Ahead". PBS. Archived from the original on 14 September 2007. Retrieved 15 August 2007.
Hickey, R., ed. (2005). Legacies of colonial English: Studies in transported dialects. Cambridge University Press.
Graddol, David (2006). English Next: Why global English may mean the end of 'English as a Foreign Language' (PDF). The British Council. Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 February 2015. Retrieved 7 February 2015.Lalitha Eapen (January 2007). "English Next". ELT Journal (Review). 61 (1): 81–83. doi:10.1093/elt/ccl050.
In Southern American English, the most populous American "accent group" outside of GA,[277] rhoticity now strongly prevails, replacing the region's historical non-rhotic prestige.[278][279][280] Southern accents are colloquially described as a "drawl" or "twang,"[281] being recognised most readily by the Southern Vowel Shift initiated by glide-deleting in the /aɪ/ vowel (e.g. pronouncing spy almost like spa), the "Southern breaking" of several front pure vowels into a gliding vowel or even two syllables (e.g. pronouncing the word "press" almost like "pray-us"),[282] the pin–pen merger, and other distinctive phonological, grammatical, and lexical features, many of which are actually recent developments of the 19th century or later.[283]
5Grammar											Toggle Grammar subsection																					5.1Nouns and noun phrases																								5.1.1Adjectives																											5.1.2Determiners																											5.1.3Pronouns, case, and person																											5.1.4Prepositions																														5.2Verbs and verb phrases																								5.2.1Tense, aspect and mood																											5.2.2Phrasal verbs																											5.2.3Adverbs																														5.3Syntax																								5.3.1Basic constituent order																											5.3.2Clause syntax																											5.3.3Auxiliary verb constructions																											5.3.4Questions																											5.3.5Discourse level syntax
Wojcik, R. H. (2006). "Controlled Languages".In Brown, Keith (ed.). Encyclopedia of language & linguistics. Elsevier. pp. 139–142. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/05081-1. ISBN 978-0-08-044299-0. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 6 February 2015. – via ScienceDirect (Subscription may be required or content may be available in libraries.)
In RP, the lateral approximant /l/, has two main allophones (pronunciation variants): the clear or plain [l], as in light, and the dark or velarised [ɫ], as in full.[147] GA has dark l in most cases.[148]
"Globish – a language of international business?". Global Lingo. 2 April 2012. Archived from the original on 18 February 2020. Retrieved 24 November 2019.
English writing also includes a system of punctuation marks that is similar to those used in most alphabetic languages around the world. The purpose of punctuation is to mark meaningful grammatical relationships in sentences to aid readers in understanding a text and to indicate features important for reading a text aloud.[255]
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". un.org. Archived from the original on 16 March 2021. Retrieved 7 January 2022.
Phillipson, Robert (28 April 2004). English-Only Europe?: Challenging Language Policy. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-134-44349-9. Archived from the original on 20 March 2015. Retrieved 15 February 2015.
In the years 1927-1934 Oxford University Press, Inc., New York was reorganised by Geoffrey Cumberlege to bring it back to profitability after the Depression years (in 1945-1956 he would succeed Milford as publisher to the University of Oxford).[40] Today the North American branch in New York City is primarily a distribution branch to facilitate the sale of Oxford Bibles in the United States. It also handles marketing of all books of its parent, Macmillan. By the end of 2021, OUP USA has published eighteen Pulitzer Prize–winning books.[41]
'Books for the Mullahs', The New York Times, 27th April 1989
^ Norman Lebrecht and Ian Birrell, 'Anger over Iran book fair visits', The Sunday Times, 7th May 1989
^ Andrew Malcolm, 'The Oxford presses aren't charities but are given unfair tax breaks', The Guardian, 15 April 2009
^ Simon Winchester, The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary (Oxford, 2003)
The Bookseller Editorial team, 'OUP India forced to pay back tax', The Bookseller, 1 June 2001
^ "Secretaries to the Delegates of the Press (1868–present)". Oxford University Press. Retrieved 8 March 2022.
'Mammon's Imprint', The Times Higher Education Supplement, 12 February 1999
Reg Little, 'OUP denies it has breached Charity rules', The Oxford Times, 5 November 1999
In July 2012, the UK's Serious Fraud Office found OUP's branches in Kenya and Tanzania guilty of bribery to obtain school bookselling contracts sponsored by the World Bank. Oxford was fined £1.9 million "in recognition of sums it received which were generated through unlawful conduct" and barred from applying for World Bank-financed projects for three years.[76]
In February 1989, Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa urging the execution of British author Salman Rushdie, and of all involved in the publication of his novel The Satanic Verses. Rushdie went into hiding, and there began an international movement to boycott book trading with Iran. There was therefore outrage when in April 1989 OUP broke the world-wide embargo and chose to attend the Tehran Book Fair. OUP justified this with the statement that "We deliberated about it quite deeply but felt it certainly wasn't in our interests, or Iran's as a whole, to stay away."[50] The New York Times,[51] International Herald Tribune and the Sunday Times[52] all condemned Oxford's decision.
Oxford University Press publishes a variety of dictionaries (e.g. Oxford English Dictionary, Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Compact Oxford English Dictionary, Compact Editions of the Oxford English Dictionary, Compact Oxford English Dictionary of Current English, Concise Oxford English Dictionary, Oxford Dictionary of Marketing, Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary), English as a second or foreign language resources (e.g. Let's Go), English language exams (e.g. Oxford Test of English and the Oxford Placement Test), bibliographies (e.g. Oxford Bibliographies Online[48]), miscellaneous series such as Very Short Introductions, and books on Indology, music, classics, literature, history, Bibles, and atlases. Many of these are published under the Oxford Languages brand.
Sutcliffe, Peter (1978). The Oxford University Press: An Informal History. Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN 0-19-951084-9.
Jeevan Vasagar, 'Oxford University Press fined £1.9m over bribery by African subsidiary firms', The Guardian, 3 July 2012
Joel Rickett, 'latest news from the world of publishing', The Guardian, 30 August 2003
Louis, Wm. Roger, ed. (2014). The History of Oxford University Press: Volume III: 1896 to 1970. Oxford: OUP. ISBN 9780199568406. Also online doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199568406.001.0001.
OUP as Oxford Journals has also been a major publisher of academic journals, both in the sciences and the humanities; as of 2022[update] it publishes more than 500 journals on behalf of learned societies around the world.[44] It has been noted as one of the first university presses to publish an open access journal (Nucleic Acids Research), and probably the first to introduce Hybrid open access journals, offering "optional open access" to authors to allow all readers online access to their paper without charge.[45] The "Oxford Open" model applies to the majority of their journals.[46] The OUP is a member of the Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association.[47]
The History of Oxford University Press: Volume II: 1780 to 1896
^ Jeevan Vasagar, 'Oxford University Press fined £1.9m over bribery by African subsidiary firms', The Guardian, 3 July 2012
^ Chris Koenig, 'OUP status attacked', Oxford Mail, 16 May 2008
The History of Oxford University Press: Volume I: Beginnings to 1780
^ The Bookseller Editorial team, 'OUP India forced to pay back tax', The Bookseller, 1 June 2001
^ Joel Rickett, 'latest news from the world of publishing', The Guardian, 30 August 2003
The next Secretary, Philip Lyttelton Gell, was appointed by the Vice-Chancellor Benjamin Jowett in 1884 but struggled and was finally dismissed in 1897.[33] The Assistant Secretary, Charles Cannan, took over with little fuss and even less affection for his predecessor: "Gell was always here, but I cannot make out what he did."[34] Charles Cannan, who had been instrumental in Gell's removal, succeeded Gell in 1898.
In March 2001, after a 28-year battle with the Indian tax authorities, OUP lost its tax exemption in India. The Supreme Court ruled that OUP was not tax exempt in the subcontinent "because it does not carry out any university activities there but acts simply as a commercial publisher".[68] In order to pay off back taxes, owed since the 1970s, OUP was obliged to sell its Mumbai headquarters building, Oxford House. The Bookseller reported that "The case has again raised questions about OUP's status in the UK".[69] In 2003, Joel Rickett of The Bookseller] wrote an article in The Guardian describing the resentment of commercial rivals at OUP's tax exemption. Rickett accurately predicted that the funds which would have been paid in tax were "likely to be used to confirm OUP's dominance by buying up other publishers."[70](Between 1989 and 2018, OUP bought out over 70 rival book and journal publishers). In 2007, with the new 'public benefit' requirement of the revised Charities Act, the issue was re-examined [71] with particular reference to the OUP.[72] In 2008, CUP's and OUP's privilege was attacked by rival publishers.[73][74] In 2009 The Guardian invited Andrew Malcolm to write an article on the subject.[75]
The University of Oxford began printing around 1480 and grew into a major printer of bibles, prayer books, and scholarly works.[7] Oxford's chancellor, Archbishop William Laud, consolidated the legal status of the university's printing in the 1630s and petitioned Charles I for rights that would enable Oxford to compete with the Stationers' Company and the King's Printer. He obtained a succession of royal grants and Oxford's "Great Charter" in 1636 gave the university the right to print "all manner of books".[8] Laud also obtained the "privilege" from the Crown of printing the King James or Authorized Version of Scripture at Oxford.[9] This "privilege" created substantial returns in the next 250 years.[10]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"A Short History of Oxford University Press". Oxford University Press. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
^ Jessica Shepherd, 'Freedom of the presses', the Guardian, 17 April 2007
6Controversies											Toggle Controversies subsection																					6.1Tehran Book Fair Controversy																											6.2Malcolm vs Oxford University 1986-1992																											6.3Closure of Poetry List																											6.4Tax Exemption Controversy																											6.5East African Bribery Scandal
In November 1998, the OUP announced the closure, on commercial grounds, of its modern poetry list. Andrew Potter, OUP's director of music, trade paperbacks and Bibles, told The Times that the list "just about breaks even. The university expects us to operate on commercial grounds, especially in this day and age."[59]In the same article, the poet D. J. Enright, who had been with OUP since 1979 said, "There was no warning. It was presented as a fait accompli. Even the poetry editor didn't know....The money involved is peanuts. It's a good list, built up over many years."[59] In February 1999, Arts Minister Alan Howarth made a speech in Oxford in which he denounced the closure: "OUP is not merely a business. It is a department of the University of Oxford and has charitable status. It is part of a great university, which the Government supports financially and which exists to develop and transmit our intellectual culture....It is a perennial complaint by the English faculty that the barbarians are at the gate. Indeed they always are. But we don't expect the gatekeepers themselves, the custodians, to be barbarians."[60] Oxford's professor Valentine Cunningham wrote in the Times Higher Education Supplement: "Increasingly, (OUP) has behaved largely like a commercial outfit, with pound signs in its eyes and a readiness to dumb down for the sake of popularity and sales....Sacking poets not because they lose money but because they do not make enough of it: it is an allegory of a university press missing the point, mistaking its prime purpose."[61] In March 1999 The Times Literary Supplement commissioned Andrew Malcolm to write an article under the strapline “Why the present constitution of the OUP cannot work”.[62] A decade later, OUP's managing director, Ivon Asquith, reflected on the public relations damage caused by the episode: "If I had foreseen the self-inflicted wound we would suffer I would not have let the proposal get as far as the Finance Committee."[63]
John Brown and Clare L. Taylor, Cumberlege, Geoffrey Fenwick Jocelyn (1891–1979), Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, sl.nsw.gov.au. Retrieved 3 March 2023.
Philip Jones,'Rivals attack OUP and CUP', The Bookseller, 24 April 2008
Dalya Alberge, 'Anger over Dead Poets Society', The Times, 21st November 1998
"Secretaries to the Delegates of the Press (1868–present)". Oxford University Press. Retrieved 8 March 2022.
Chatterjee, Rimi B. (2006). Empires of the Mind: A History of the Oxford University Press in India During the Raj. New Delhi: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-567474-3.
^ Ivon Asquith letter to Roy Foster, quoted by Foster in 'The Poetry Question', Keith Robbins (ed), The History of Oxford University Press, Vol IV, OUP, 2017, p478
VenuesBullingdon GreenChrist Church GroundMagdalen GroundNew College GroundRoger Bannister running trackUniversity Parks
Barker, Nicolas (1978). The Oxford University Press and the Spread of Learning. Oxford.
"Oxford University Press to end centuries of tradition by closing its printing arm"
Chris Koenig, 'OUP status attacked', Oxford Mail, 16 May 2008
^ "About Oxford University Press". OUP Academic. Retrieved 3 August 2018.
In the 1960s OUP Southern Africa started publishing local authors, for the general reader, but also for schools and universities, under its Three Crowns Books imprint. Its territory includes Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland and Namibia, as well as South Africa, the biggest market of the five.[citation needed] OUP Southern Africa is now one of the three biggest educational publishers in South Africa, and focuses its attention on publishing textbooks, dictionaries, atlases and supplementary material for schools, and textbooks for universities. Its author base is overwhelmingly local, and in 2008 it entered into a partnership with the university to support scholarships for South Africans studying postgraduate degrees.[citation needed]
Following the English Civil War, Vice-chancellor, John Fell, Dean of Christ Church, Bishop of Oxford, and Secretary to the Delegates was determined to installed printing presses in 1668, making it the university's first central print shop.[11] In 1674 OUP began to print a broadsheet calendar, known as the Oxford Almanack, that has been produced annually without interruption from Fell's time to the present day.[12] Fell drew up the first formal programme for the university's printing which envisaged hundreds of works, including the Bible in Greek, editions of the Coptic Gospels and works of the Church Fathers, texts in Arabic and Syriac, comprehensive editions of classical philosophy, poetry, and mathematics, a wide range of medieval scholarship, and also "a history of insects, more perfect than any yet Extant."[13]
^ 'Books for the Mullahs', The New York Times, 27th April 1989
Dan Glaister, 'Minister steps into Oxford poetry list row', The Guardian, 4 February 1999
Price transformed OUP. In 1884, the year he retired as Secretary, the Delegates bought back the last shares in the business.[28] The press was now owned wholly by the university, with its own paper mill, print shop, bindery, and warehouse. Its output had increased to include school books and modern scholarly texts such as James Clerk Maxwell's A Treatise on Electricity & Magnetism (1873), which proved fundamental to Einstein's thought.[29] Simply put, without abandoning its traditions or quality of work, Price began to turn OUP into an alert, modern publisher. In 1879, he also took on the publication that led that process to its conclusion: the huge project that became the Oxford English Dictionary (OED).[30]
Cambridge University Press v. Patton, a copyright infringement suit in which OUP is a plaintiff
Empires of the Mind: A History of the Oxford University Press in India During the Raj
"About Oxford University Press". OUP Academic. Retrieved 3 August 2018.
Sutcliffe, Peter (1972). An Informal History of the OUP. Oxford: OUP.
Gadd, Ian, ed. (2014). The History of Oxford University Press: Volume I: Beginnings to 1780. Oxford: OUP. ISBN 9780199557318.
^ Dan Glaister, 'Minister steps into Oxford poetry list row', The Guardian, 4 February 1999
Equally, Price moved OUP towards publishing in its own right. The press had ended its relationship with Parker's in 1863 and in 1870 bought a small London bindery for some Bible work.[24] Macmillan's contract ended in 1880, and wasn't renewed. By this time, Oxford also had a London warehouse for Bible stock in Paternoster Row, and in 1880 its manager Henry Frowde (1841–1927) was given the formal title of Publisher to the university. Frowde came from the book trade, not the university, and remained an enigma to many. One obituary in Oxford's staff magazine The Clarendonian admitted, "Very few of us here in Oxford had any personal knowledge of him."[25] Despite that, Frowde became vital to OUP's growth, adding new lines of books to the business, presiding over the massive publication of the Revised Version of the New Testament in 1881[26] and playing a key role in setting up the press's first office outside Britain, in New York City in 1896.[27]
This page was last edited on 17 March 2023, at 13:06 (UTC).
Ivon Asquith letter to Roy Foster, quoted by Foster in 'The Poetry Question', Keith Robbins (ed), The History of Oxford University Press, Vol IV, OUP, 2017, p478
^ a b Dalya Alberge, 'Anger over Dead Poets Society', The Times, 21st November 1998
^ "Optional Open Access Experiment". Journal of Experimental Botany. Oxford Journals. Archived from the original on 4 December 2008. Retrieved 19 April 2016.
Simon Winchester, The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary (Oxford, 2003)
By the early 20th century OUP expanded its overseas trade, in part due to the efforts of Humphrey Milford, the publisher to the University of Oxford from 1913 to 1945. The 1920s saw skyrocketing prices of both materials and labour. Paper especially was hard to come by, and had to be imported from South America through trading companies. Economies and markets slowly recovered as the 1920s progressed. In 1928, the press's imprint read 'London, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leipzig, Toronto, Melbourne, Cape Town, Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Shanghai'. Not all of these were full-fledged branches: in Leipzig there was a depot run by H. Bohun Beet, and in Canada and Australia there were small, functional depots in the cities and an army of educational representatives penetrating the rural fastnesses to sell the press's stock as well as books published by firms whose agencies were held by the press, very often including fiction and light reading. In India, the Branch depots in Bombay, Madras, and Calcutta were imposing establishments with sizable stock inventories, for the Presidencies themselves were large markets, and the educational representatives there dealt mostly with upcountry trade. The Depression of 1929 dried profits from the Americas to a trickle, and India became 'the one bright spot' in an otherwise dismal picture. Bombay was the nodal point for distribution to the Africas and onward sale to Australasia, and people who trained at the three major depots moved later on to pioneer branches in Africa and South East Asia.[35]
Balter, Michael (16 February 1994). "400 Years Later, Oxford Press Thrives". The New York Times. Retrieved 28 June 2011.
Oxford University Press (OUP) is the university press of the University of Oxford. It is the largest university press in the world, and its printing history dates back to the 1480s. Having been officially granted the legal right to print books by decree in 1586,[2] it is the second oldest university press after Cambridge University Press.[3][4][5]
The period following World War II saw consolidation in the face of the breakup of the Empire and the post-war reorganization of the Commonwealth.
Court of Appeal judgement and order, 18 December 1990, CHF0480/90
^ "OUP Major Book Awards". OUP Academic. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 6 February 2022.
^ Tom Tivnan, 'Charities review could hit publishers', The Bookseller, 2007
Hart's Rules for Compositors and Readers at the University Press, Oxford
In July 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic its Bookshop on the High Street closed.
Phil Baty, 'Whistleblowers', The Times Higher Education Supplement, 22 February 2002
^ "Oxford Open". Oxford Journals. Archived from the original on 19 July 2014. Retrieved 19 April 2016.
Oxford Music: The First Fifty Years '23−'73. London: Oxford University Press Music Department. 1973.
It took the 1850 Royal Commission on the workings of the university and a new Secretary, Bartholomew Price, to shake up the press.[21] Appointed in 1868, Price had already recommended to the university that the press needed an efficient executive officer to exercise "vigilant superintendence" of the business, including its dealings with Alexander Macmillan, who became the publisher for Oxford's printing in 1863 and in 1866 helped Price to create the Clarendon Press series of cheap, elementary school books – perhaps the first time that Oxford used the Clarendon imprint.[22] Under Price, the press began to take on its modern shape. Major new lines of work began. To give one example, in 1875, the Delegates approved the series Sacred Books of the East under the editorship of Friedrich Max Müller, bringing a vast range of religious thought to a wider readership.[23]
^ G Bridden, letter to Geoffrey Cass, 9 November 1976
^ Phil Baty, 'Whistleblowers', The Times Higher Education Supplement, 22 February 2002 '
^ Books and Bookmen column, Private Eye, 15 January 1993
OUP has offices throughout the world, primarily in locations that were once part of the British Empire (mainly India and the United States).[citation needed]
The case ended in July 1992 with a Tomlin order, a damages settlement under the terms of which the servants and agents of Oxford University are permanently barred from denigrating Malcolm or Making Names, rendering it the first book in literary history to be afforded such legal protection.[55][56][57] The case was reported to have cost Oxford over £500,000.[58]
^ "A Brief History of the Press". Cambridge University Press. Retrieved 3 August 2018.
Andrew Malcom, 'Don't go to Jericho: Why the present constitution of the OUP cannot work', Times Literary Supplement, 2 April 1999
Offered to Oxford by James Murray and the Philological Society, the "New English Dictionary" was a grand academic and patriotic undertaking. Lengthy negotiations led to a formal contract. Murray was to edit a work estimated to take 10 years and to cost approximately £9,000.[31] Both figures were wildly optimistic. The Dictionary began to appear in print in 1884, but the first edition was not completed until 1928, 13 years after Murray's death, at a cost of around £375,000.[32] This vast financial burden and its implications landed on Price's successors.[citation needed]
On 27 August 2021, OUP closed Oxuniprint, its printing division. The closure will mark the "final chapter" of OUP's centuries-long history of printing.[42]
Tom Tivnan, 'Charities review could hit publishers', The Bookseller, 2007
Hinnells, Duncan (1998). An Extraordinary Performance: Hubert Foss and the Early Years of Music Publishing at the Oxford University Press. Oxford: OUP. ISBN 978-0-19-323200-6.
Maggie Hartford 'A Message from India', The Oxford Times, 30 March 2001
^ Andrew Malcom, 'Don't go to Jericho: Why the present constitution of the OUP cannot work', Times Literary Supplement, 2 April 1999
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"A Short History of Oxford University Press". Oxford University Press. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
"OUP Major Book Awards". OUP Academic. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 6 February 2022.
^ I.G. Phillip, William Blackstone and the Reform of the Oxford University Press (Oxford, 1957) pp. 45–72
Andrew Malcolm, 'The Oxford presses aren't charities but are given unfair tax breaks', The Guardian, 15 April 2009
^ John Brown and Clare L. Taylor, Cumberlege, Geoffrey Fenwick Jocelyn (1891–1979), Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, sl.nsw.gov.au. Retrieved 3 March 2023.
^ "History of the Clarendon Fund". University of Oxford. Retrieved 12 February 2018.
^ a b 'Mammon's Imprint', The Times Higher Education Supplement, 12 February 1999
"A Brief History of the Press". Cambridge University Press. Retrieved 3 August 2018.
For the last 500 years, OUP has primarily focused on the publication of pedagogical texts and continues this tradition today by publishing academic journals, dictionaries, English language resources, bibliographies, books on indology, music, classics, literature, history, as well as bibles and atlases.
The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary
"Optional Open Access Experiment". Journal of Experimental Botany. Oxford Journals. Archived from the original on 4 December 2008. Retrieved 19 April 2016.
The Oxford University Press Museum is located on Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. Visits must be booked in advance and are led by a member of the archive staff. Displays include a 19th-century printing press, the OUP buildings, and the printing and history of the Oxford Almanack, Alice in Wonderland and the Oxford English Dictionary.[citation needed]
^ Balter, Michael (16 February 1994). "400 Years Later, Oxford Press Thrives". The New York Times. Retrieved 28 June 2011.
In 1990 in the UK Court of Appeal author Andrew Malcolm won a landmark legal judgment against Oxford University (Press) for its breach of a contract to publish his philosophical text Making Names. Reporting on the verdict in The Observer, Laurence Marks wrote, "It is the first time in living memory that Grub Street has won such a victory over its oppressors".[53] The Appeal Court judges were highly critical of Oxford's conduct of the affair and of the litigation. Lord Justice Mustill declared "The Press is one of the longest-established publishing houses in the United Kingdom, and no doubt in the world. They must have been aware from the outset that the absence of agreement on the matters in question [the book's print-run and format] was not, in the trade, regarded as preventing a formal agreement from coming into existence. Candour would, I believe, have required that this should have been made clear to the judge and ourselves, rather than a determined refusal to let the true position come to light... This is not quite all. I do not know whether an outsider studying the history of this transaction and of this litigation would feel that, in his self-financed struggle with the assembled Chancellor, Masters and Scholars of the University of Oxford the appellant has had a fair crack of the whip. I certainly do not... Mr Charkin took the decision [to renege on the OUP editor's contract], not because he thought the book was no good - he had never seen it and the reports were favourable - but because he thought it would not sell. Let there be no mistake about it, the failure of this transaction was about money, not prestige. Nor does the course of the litigation give any reason to suppose that the Press had any interest but to resist the claim, no matter on what grounds, so long as they succeeded."[54] Lord Justice Leggatt added: "It is difficult to know what the Deputy Judge (Lightman) meant by a 'firm commitment' other than an intention to create legal relations. Nothing short of that would have had any value whatever for Mr Malcolm... To suggest that Mr Hardy intended to induce Mr Malcolm to revise the book by giving him a valueless assurance would be tantamount to an imputation of fraud... It follows that in my judgment when Mr Hardy used the expressions 'commitment' and 'a fair royalty' he did in fact mean what he said; and I venture to think that it would take a lawyer to arrive at any other conclusion. There was therefore an enforceable contract for the publication of Mr Malcolm's book... The Respondents' final statement may be thought unworthy of them.”[54]
^ Maggie Hartford 'A Message from India', The Oxford Times, 30 March 2001
Phil Baty, 'Whistleblowers', The Times Higher Education Supplement, 22 February 2002 '
The History of Oxford University Press: Volume IV: 1970 to 2004
Robbins, Keith, ed. (2017). The History of Oxford University Press: Volume IV: 1970 to 2004. Oxford: OUP. ISBN 9780199574797.
"Oxford Open". Oxford Journals. Archived from the original on 19 July 2014. Retrieved 19 April 2016.
^ quoted in "Such principled publishers", an article in The Bookseller, 5 May 1989
Flood, Alison (9 June 2021). "Oxford University Press to end centuries of tradition by closing its printing arm". The Guardian. Retrieved 9 June 2021.
^ Laurence Marks, 'A builder's dialogue that silenced OUP', The Observer, 23 December 1990
Eliot, Simon, ed. (2014). The History of Oxford University Press: Volume II: 1780 to 1896. Oxford: OUP. ISBN 9780199543151.
^ a b Court of Appeal judgement and order, 18 December 1990, CHF0480/90
CompetitionsCuppersThe Boat RaceWomen's Boat RaceHenley Boat RacesPolo Varsity MatchRugby League Varsity MatchRugby Union Varsity MatchUniversity Cricket MatchUniversity Golf Match
Generally speaking, the early 18th century marked a lull in the press's expansion. It suffered from the absence of any figure comparable to Fell. The business was rescued by the intervention of a single Delegate, William Blackstone. Disgusted by the chaotic state of the press, and antagonized by the Vice-Chancellor George Huddesford, Blackstone called for sweeping reforms that would firmly set out the Delegates' powers and obligations, officially record their deliberations and accounting, and put the print shop on an efficient footing.[14] Nonetheless, Randolph ignored this document, and it was not until Blackstone threatened legal action that changes began. The university had moved to adopt all of Blackstone's reforms by 1760.[15]
^ Flood, Alison (9 June 2021). "Oxford University Press to end centuries of tradition by closing its printing arm". The Guardian. Retrieved 9 June 2021.
Laurence Marks, 'A builder's dialogue that silenced OUP', The Observer, 23 December 1990
Since 2001, Oxford University Press has financially supported the Clarendon bursary, a University of Oxford graduate scholarship scheme.[49]
Illustrated article: The Most Famous Press in the World, World's Work and Play, June 1903
Since the 1940s, both OUP and the Cambridge University Press (CUP), had made applications to the Inland Revenue for exemption from corporate tax. The first application, by CUP in 1940, was refused "on the ground that, since the Press was printing and publishing for the outside world and not simply for the internal use of the University, the Press's trade went beyond the purpose and objects of the University and (in terms of the Act) was not exercised in the course of the actual carrying out of a primary purpose of the University."[64] Similar applications by OUP in 1944 and 1950 were also rejected by the Inland Revenue, whose officers repeatedly pointed out that the university presses were in open competition with commercial, tax-liable publishers. In November 1975 CUP's chief executive Geoffrey Cass again applied to the Inland Revenue, and a year later CUP's tax-exemption was quietly conceded.[65][66] OUP's Chief Executive George Richardson followed suit in 1977 and OUP's tax-exemption was granted in 1978. The decisions were not made public. The issue was only brought to public attention as a result of press interest in OUP, following the poetry list closure controversy.[61] In 1999, the campaigner Andrew Malcolm published his second book The Remedy, in which he alleged that OUP is in breach of its 1978 tax-exemption conditions. This was reported in a front page article in The Oxford Times, along with OUP's response.[67]
The press now entered an era of enormous change. In 1830, it was still a joint-stock printing business in an academic backwater, offering learned works to a relatively small readership of scholars and clerics [17] At this time, Thomas Combe joined the press and became the university's Printer until his death in 1872. Combe was a better business man than most Delegates, but still no innovator: he failed to grasp the huge commercial potential of India paper, which grew into one of Oxford's most profitable trade secrets in later years.[18] Even so, Combe earned a fortune through his shares in the business and the acquisition and renovation of the bankrupt paper mill at Wolvercote. Combe showed little interest, however, in producing fine printed work at the press.[19] The most well-known text associated with his print shop was the flawed first edition of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, printed by Oxford at the expense of its author Lewis Carroll (Charles Lutwidge Dodgson) in 1865.[20]
quoted in "Such principled publishers", an article in The Bookseller, 5 May 1989
Carter, Harry Graham (1975). A History of the Oxford University Press. Oxford: Clarendon Press. OCLC 955872307.
Jessica Shepherd, 'Freedom of the presses', the Guardian, 17 April 2007
I.G. Phillip, William Blackstone and the Reform of the Oxford University Press (Oxford, 1957) pp. 45–72
The History of Oxford University Press: Volume III: 1896 to 1970
^ Reg Little, 'OUP denies it has breached Charity rules', The Oxford Times, 5 November 1999
In 1923 OUP established a Music Department.[36] At the time, such musical publishing enterprises, however, were rare.[37] and few of the Delegates or former Publishers were themselves musical or had extensive music backgrounds.[citation needed] OUP bought an Anglo-French Music Company and all its facilities, connections, and resources.[36] This concentration provided OUP two mutually reinforcing benefits: a niche in music publishing unoccupied by potential competitors, and a branch of music performance and composition that the English themselves had largely neglected. Hinnells proposes that the early Music Department's "mixture of scholarship and cultural nationalism" in an area of music with largely unknown commercial prospects was driven by its sense of cultural philanthropy (given the press's academic background) and a desire to promote "national music outside the German mainstream."[38]It was not until 1939 that the Music Department showed its first profitable year.[39]
Norman Lebrecht and Ian Birrell, 'Anger over Iran book fair visits', The Sunday Times, 7th May 1989
"History of the Clarendon Fund". University of Oxford. Retrieved 12 February 2018.
Operations in South Asia and East and South East Asia were and, in the case of the former, remain major parts of the company.
^ Philip Jones,'Rivals attack OUP and CUP', The Bookseller, 24 April 2008
Throughout Italy, regional variations of Standard Italian, called Regional Italian, are spoken. Regional differences can be recognized by various factors: the openness of vowels, the length of the consonants, and influence of the local language (for example, in informal situations andà, annà and nare replace the standard Italian andare in the area of Tuscany, Rome and Venice respectively for the infinitive "to go").
^ See List of Italian musical terms used in English
Niccolò Machiavelli and other Florentines preferred the version spoken by ordinary people in their own times.
Standard Italian also differs in some respects from most nearby Italian languages:
The Italian dialects have declined in the modern era, as Italy unified under Standard Italian and continues to do so aided by mass media, from newspapers to radio to television.[16]: 37
Cardia, Amos.S'italianu in Sardìnnia candu, cumenti e poita d'ant impostu : 1720–1848; poderi e lìngua in Sardìnnia in edadi spanniola , pp. 80–93, Iskra, 2006.
During that period, Italy held artistic sway over the rest of Europe. It was the norm for all educated gentlemen to make the Grand Tour, visiting Italy to see its great historical monuments and works of art. It thus became expected to learn at least some Italian. In England, while the classical languages Latin and Greek were the first to be learned, Italian became the second most common modern language after French, a position it held until the late 18th century when it tended to be replaced by German. John Milton, for instance, wrote some of his early poetry in Italian.
Compared with most other Romance languages, Italian has many inconsistent outcomes, where the same underlying sound produces different results in different words, e.g. laxāre > lasciare and lassare, captiāre > cacciare and cazzare, (ex)dēroteolāre > sdrucciolare, druzzolare and ruzzolare, rēgīna > regina and reina. Although in all these examples the second form has fallen out of usage, the dimorphism is thought to reflect the several-hundred-year period during which Italian developed as a literary language divorced from any native-speaking population, with an origin in 12th/13th-century Tuscan but with many words borrowed from languages farther to the north, with different sound outcomes. (The La Spezia–Rimini Line, the most important isogloss in the entire Romance-language area, passes only about 30 kilometres or 20 miles north of Florence.) Dual outcomes of Latin /p t k/ between vowels, such as lŏcum > luogo but fŏcum > fuoco, was once thought to be due to borrowing of northern voiced forms, but is now generally viewed as the result of early phonetic variation within Tuscany.
^ "Centro documentazione per l'integrazione". Cdila.it. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
^ a b "La tutela delle minoranze linguistiche in Slovenia" (in Italian). 22 April 2020. Retrieved 5 June 2022.
After unification, a huge number of civil servants and soldiers recruited from all over the country introduced many more words and idioms from their home languages—ciao is derived from the Venetian word s-cia[v]o ("slave", that is "your servant"), panettone comes from the Lombard word panetton, etc. Only 2.5% of Italy's population could speak the Italian standardized language properly when the nation was unified in 1861.[1]
"Los segundos idiomas más hablados de Sudamérica | AméricaEconomía – El sitio de los negocios globales de América Latina". Americaeconomia.com. 16 July 2015. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
According to Ethnologue, lexical similarity is 89% with French, 87% with Catalan, 85% with Sardinian, 82% with Spanish, 80% with Portuguese, 78% with Ladin, 77% with Romanian.[1] Estimates may differ according to sources.[28][29]
During this time, long-existing beliefs stemming from the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church began to be understood from new perspectives as humanists—individuals who placed emphasis on the human body and its full potential—began to shift focus from the church to human beings themselves.[21] The continual advancements in technology play a crucial role in the diffusion of languages. After the invention of the printing press in the fifteenth century, the number of printing presses in Italy grew rapidly and by the year 1500 reached a total of 56, the biggest number of printing presses in all of Europe. This enabled the production of more pieces of literature at a lower cost and as the dominant language, Italian, spread.[22]
There are both indefinite and definite articles in Italian. There are four indefinite articles, selected by the gender of the noun they modify and by the phonological structure of the word that immediately follows the article. Uno is masculine singular, used before z (/ts/ or /dz/), s+consonant, gn (/ɲ/), or ps, while masculine singular un is used before a word beginning with any other sound. The noun zio 'uncle' selects masculine singular, thus uno zio 'an uncle' or uno zio anziano 'an old uncle,' but un mio zio 'an uncle of mine'. The feminine singular indefinite articles are una, used before any consonant sound, and its abbreviated form, written un', used before vowels: una camicia 'a shirt', una camicia bianca 'a white shirt', un'altra camicia 'a different shirt'. There are seven forms for definite articles, both singular and plural. In the singular: lo, which corresponds to the uses of uno; il, which corresponds to the uses with consonant of un; la, which corresponds to the uses of una; l', used for both masculine and feminine singular before vowels. In the plural: gli is the masculine plural of lo and l'; i is the plural of il; and le is the plural of feminine la and l'.[97]
^ a b Recognized as a minority language by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.[5]
Berloco, Fabrizio (2018). The Big Book of Italian Verbs: 900 Fully Conjugated Verbs in All Tenses. With IPA Transcription, 2nd Edition. Lengu. ISBN 978-8894034813.
The voiced postalveolar fricative /ʒ/ is present as a phoneme only in loanwords: for example, garage [ɡaˈraːʒ]. Phonetic [ʒ] is common in Central and Southern Italy as an intervocalic allophone of /dʒ/: gente [ˈdʒɛnte] 'people' but la gente [laˈʒɛnte] 'the people', ragione [raˈʒoːne] 'reason'.
"MULTILINGVISM ŞI LIMBI MINORITARE ÎN ROMÂNIA" (PDF) (in Romanian). Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 December 2019. Retrieved 13 June 2019.
See Italica 1950: 46 (cf. [2] and [3]): "Pei, Mario A. "A New Methodology for Romance Classification." Word, v, 2 (Aug. 1949), 135–146. Demonstrates a comparative statistical method for determining the extent of change from the Latin for the free and checked stressed vowels of French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Rumanian, Old Provençal, and Logudorese Sardinian. By assigning 3½ change points per vowel (with 2 points for diphthongization, 1 point for modification in vowel quantity, ½ point for changes due to nasalization, palatalization or umlaut, and −½ point for failure to effect a normal change), there is a maximum of 77 change points for free and checked stressed vowel sounds (11×2×3½=77). According to this system (illustrated by seven charts at the end of the article), the percentage of change is greatest in French (44%) and least in Italian (12%) and Sardinian (8%). Prof. Pei suggests that this statistical method be extended not only to all other phonological but also to all morphological and syntactical, phenomena.".
^ "QUOTIDIANI ITALIANI ALL'ESTERO" (in Italian). Retrieved 6 June 2022.
Italian grammar is typical of the grammar of Romance languages in general. Cases exist for personal pronouns (nominative, oblique, accusative, dative), but not for nouns.
^ Dittmar, Jeremiah (2011). "Information Technology and Economic Change: The Impact of the Printing Press". The Quarterly Journal of Economics. 126 (3): 1133–1172. doi:10.1093/qje/qjr035. S2CID 11701054.
The letter n represents the phoneme /n/, which is pronounced [ŋ] (as in the English word sink or the name Ringo) before the letters c and g when these represent velar plosives /k/ or /g/, as in banco [ˈbaŋko], fungo [ˈfuŋɡo]. The letter q represents /k/ pronounced [k], thus n also represents [ŋ] in the position preceding it: cinque [ˈt͡ʃiŋkwe]. Elsewhere the letter n represents /n/ pronounced [n], including before the affricates /t͡ʃ/ or /d͡ʒ/ (equivalent to the consonants of English church and judge) spelled with c or g before the letters i and e : mancia [ˈmant͡ʃa], mangia [ˈmand͡ʒa].
^ a b c "Collins Italian Dictionary | Translations, Definitions and Pronunciations". www.collinsdictionary.com. Retrieved 28 July 2017.
"History of the Italian language". Italian-language.biz. Archived from the original on 3 September 2006. Retrieved 24 September 2006.
"Lingue di Minoranza e Scuola: Carta Generale". Minoranze-linguistiche-scuola.it. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 8 October 2017.
Winters, Margaret E. (8 May 2020). Historical Linguistics: A cognitive grammar introduction. ISBN 9789027261236.
During the Middle Ages, the established written language in Europe was Latin, though the great majority of people were illiterate, and only a handful were well versed in the language. In the Italian Peninsula, as in most of Europe, most would instead speak a local vernacular. These dialects, as they are commonly referred to, evolved from Vulgar Latin over the course of centuries, unaffected by formal standards and teachings. They are not in any sense "dialects" of standard Italian, which itself started off as one of these local tongues, but sister languages of Italian. Mutual intelligibility with Italian varies widely, as it does with Romance languages in general. The Romance languages of Italy can differ greatly from Italian at all levels (phonology, morphology, syntax, lexicon, pragmatics) and are classified typologically as distinct languages.[16][17]
Lepschy, Anna Laura; Lepschy, Giulio C. (1988). The Italian language today (2nd ed.). New York: New Amsterdam. pp. 13, 22, 19–20, 21, 35, 37. ISBN 978-0-941533-22-5. OCLC 17650220.
Hull, Geoffrey, The Malta Language Question: A Case Study in Cultural Imperialism, Valletta: Said International, 1993.
"Languages covered by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages" (PDF). (PDF)
"Collins Italian Dictionary | Translations, Definitions and Pronunciations". www.collinsdictionary.com. Retrieved 28 July 2017.
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.1Origins																											1.2Renaissance																											1.3Modern era																											1.4Contemporary times
"Society". Monaco-IQ Business Intelligence. Lydia Porter. 2007–2013. Archived from the original on 15 August 2013. Retrieved 28 June 2013.
Rogers, Derek; d'Arcangeli, Luciana (2004). "Italian". Journal of the International Phonetic Association. 34 (1): 117–121. doi:10.1017/S0025100304001628.
RepublicEconomic BoomYears of LeadMaxi TrialMani puliteGreat RecessionEuropean migrant crisisCoronavirus pandemic
^ "Portland State Multicultural Topics in Communications Sciences & Disorders | Italian". www.pdx.edu. Archived from the original on 6 February 2017. Retrieved 5 February 2017.
The main Italian-language newspapers published outside Italy are the L'Osservatore Romano (Vatican City), the L'Informazione di San Marino (San Marino), the Corriere del Ticino and the laRegione Ticino (Switzerland), the La Voce del Popolo (Croatia), the Corriere d'Italia (Germany), the L'italoeuropeo (United Kingdom), the Passaparola (Luxembourg), the America Oggi (United States), the Corriere Canadese and the Corriere Italiano (Canada), the Il punto d'incontro (Mexico), the L'Italia del Popolo (Argentina), the Fanfulla (Brazil), the Gente d'Italia (Uruguay), the La Voce d'Italia (Venezuela), the Il Globo (Australia) and the La gazzetta del Sud Africa (South Africa).[63][64][65]
Tuscan dialects, Central italian dialects, various forms of regional Italian
Podestà, Gian Luca. "L'emigrazione italiana in Africa orientale" (PDF). Retrieved 10 February 2022.
An important event that helped the diffusion of Italian was the conquest and occupation of Italy by Napoleon in the early 19th century (who was himself of Italian-Corsican descent). This conquest propelled the unification of Italy some decades after and pushed the Italian language into a lingua franca used not only among clerks, nobility, and functionaries in the Italian courts but also by the bourgeoisie.
^ "Italian — University of Leicester". .le.ac.uk. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
^ P., McKay, John (2006). A history of Western society. Hill, Bennett D., Buckler, John. (8th ed.). Boston: Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 978-0-618-52273-6. OCLC 58837884.
"Portland State Multicultural Topics in Communications Sciences & Disorders | Italian"
"Recensement Fédéral de la Population 2000 — Le Paysage Linguistique en Suisse"
""Un nizzardo su quattro prese la via dell'esilio" in seguito all'unità d'Italia, dice lo scrittore Casalino Pierluigi"
This faction was headed by Vincenzo Calmeta, Alessandro Tassoni, according to whom “the idiom of the Roman court was as good as the Florentine one, and better understood by all” (G. Rossi, ed. (1930). La secchia rapita, L’oceano e le rime. Bari. p. 235) and Francesco Sforza Pallavicino. See: Bellini, Eraldo (2022). "Language and Idiom in Sforza Pallavicino's Trattato dello stile e del dialogo". Sforza Pallavicino: A Jesuit Life in Baroque Rome. Brill Publishers: 126–172. doi:10.1163/9789004517240_008. ISBN 978-90-04-51724-0.
^ "Encuesta Telefónica de Idiomas (ETI) 2019". Instituto Nacional de Estadística Instituto Nacional de Estadística – Uruguay. 2019. Archived from the original on 28 October 2020.
Bertinetto, Pier Marco; Loporcaro, Michele (2005). "The sound pattern of Standard Italian, as compared with the varieties spoken in Florence, Milan and Rome". Journal of the International Phonetic Association. 35 (2): 131–151. doi:10.1017/S0025100305002148. S2CID 6479830.
"Pope Francis to receive Knights of Malta grand master Thursday – English". ANSA.it. 21 June 2016. Retrieved 16 October 2019.
8Words											Toggle Words subsection																					8.1Conversation																											8.2Question words																											8.3Time																											8.4Numbers																											8.5Days of the week																											8.6Months of the year
Longo, Maurizio (2007). "La lingua italiana in Albania" (PDF). Education et Sociétés Plurilingues (in Italian) (22): 51–56. Archived (PDF) from the original on 23 September 2015. Retrieved 28 July 2014. Today, even though for political reasons English is the most widely taught foreign language in Albanian schools, Italian is anyway the most widespread foreign language.
^ [4] Archived 17 December 2008 at the Wayback Machine
Italian guadagnare "to win, earn, gain" < Vulgar Latin *guadaniāre < Germanic /waidanjan/ (cf. Spanish ganar, Portuguese ganhar, French gagner /ɡaɲe/, Catalan guanyar)
Little or no phonemic lenition of consonants between vowels, e.g. vīta > vita "life" (cf. Romanian vită, Spanish vida [ˈbiða], French vie), pedem > piede "foot" (cf. Spanish pie, French pied /pje/).
^ Hull, Geoffrey, The Malta Language Question: A Case Study in Cultural Imperialism, Valletta: Said International, 1993.
The economic might and relatively advanced development of Tuscany at the time (Late Middle Ages) gave its language weight, though Venetian remained widespread in medieval Italian commercial life, and Ligurian (or Genoese) remained in use in maritime trade alongside the Mediterranean. The increasing political and cultural relevance of Florence during the periods of the rise of the Medici Bank, humanism, and the Renaissance made its dialect, or rather a refined version of it, a standard in the arts.
Italian is a Romance language, a descendant of Vulgar Latin (colloquial spoken Latin). Standard Italian is based on Tuscan, especially its Florentine dialect, and is, therefore, an Italo-Dalmatian language, a classification that includes most other central and southern Italian languages and the extinct Dalmatian.
^ "Society". Monaco-IQ Business Intelligence. Lydia Porter. 2007–2013. Archived from the original on 15 August 2013. Retrieved 28 June 2013.
One study, analyzing the degree of differentiation of Romance languages in comparison to Latin (comparing phonology, inflection, discourse, syntax, vocabulary, and intonation), estimated that distance between Italian and Latin is higher than that between Sardinian and Latin.[30] In particular, its vowels are the second-closest to Latin after Sardinian.[31][32] As in most Romance languages, stress is distinctive.[33]
"Una quantificazione della penetrazione della lingua italiana in Albania tramite la televisione (III)"
^ "2011 Census QuickStats: Australia". Censusdata.abs.gov.au. Archived from the original on 6 November 2015. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
^ "(...) in a large number of Italian accents, there is considerable friction involved in the pronunciation of [ʎ], creating a voiced palatal lateral fricative (for which there is no established IPA symbol)" Ashby (2011:64).
^ Thammy Evans & Rudolf Abraham (2013). Istria. p. 11. ISBN 9781841624457.
Treccani Italian Dictionary (iso). archive.org (in Italian). it. (with a similar list of other Italian-modern languages dictionaries)
Longo, Maurizio; Ademi, Esmeralda; Bulija, Mirjana (June 2010). "Una quantificazione della penetrazione della lingua italiana in Albania tramite la televisione (III)" [A quantification of the diffusion of the Italian language in Albania via television] (PDF). Education et Sociétés Plurilingues (in Italian) (28): 53–63. Archived from the original on 8 August 2014. Retrieved 28 July 2014.
^ Lüdi, Georges; Werlen, Iwar (April 2005). "Recensement Fédéral de la Population 2000 — Le Paysage Linguistique en Suisse" (PDF) (in French, German, and Italian). Neuchâtel: Office fédéral de la statistique. Archived from the original (PDF) on 29 November 2007. Retrieved 5 January 2006.
From the late 19th to the mid-20th century, thousands of Italians settled in Argentina, Uruguay, Southern Brazil and Venezuela, as well as in Canada and the United States, where they formed a physical and cultural presence.
The acute accent is used over word-final ⟨e⟩ to indicate a stressed front close-mid vowel, as in perché "why, because". In dictionaries, it is also used over ⟨o⟩ to indicate a stressed back close-mid vowel (azióne). The grave accent is used over word-final ⟨e⟩ and ⟨o⟩ to indicate a front open-mid vowel and a back open-mid vowel respectively, as in tè "tea" and può "(he) can". The grave accent is used over any vowel to indicate word-final stress, as in gioventù "youth". Unlike ⟨é⟩, which is a close-mid vowel, a stressed final ⟨o⟩ is almost always a back open-mid vowel (andrò), with a few exceptions, like metró, with a stressed final back close-mid vowel, making ⟨ó⟩ for the most part unnecessary outside of dictionaries. Most of the time, the penultimate syllable is stressed. But if the stressed vowel is the final letter of the word, the accent is mandatory, otherwise it is virtually always omitted. Exceptions are typically either in dictionaries, where all or most stressed vowels are commonly marked. Accents can optionally be used to disambiguate words that differ only by stress, as for prìncipi "princes" and princìpi "principles", or àncora "anchor" and ancóra "still/yet". For monosyllabic words, the rule is different: when two orthographically identical monosyllabic words with different meanings exist, one is accented and the other is not (example: è "is", e "and").
Italian became the language used in the courts of every state in the Italian Peninsula, as well as the prestige variety used on the island of Corsica[23] (but not in the neighbouring Sardinia, which on the contrary underwent Italianization well into the late 18th century, under Savoyard sway: the island's linguistic composition, roofed by the prestige of Spanish among the Sardinians, would therein make for a rather slow process of assimilation to the Italian cultural sphere[24][25]). The rediscovery of Dante's De vulgari eloquentia, as well as a renewed interest in linguistics in the 16th century, sparked a debate that raged throughout Italy concerning the criteria that should govern the establishment of a modern Italian literary and spoken language. This discussion, known as questione della lingua (i.e., the problem of the language), ran through the Italian culture until the end of the 19th century, often linked to the political debate on achieving a united Italian state. Renaissance scholars divided into three main factions:
Italian was progressively made an official language of most of the Italian states predating unification, slowly replacing Latin, even when ruled by foreign powers (like Spain in the Kingdom of Naples, or Austria in the Kingdom of Lombardy–Venetia), even though the masses kept speaking primarily their local vernaculars. Italian was also one of the many recognised languages in the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
Italian has a seven-vowel system, consisting of /a, ɛ, e, i, ɔ, o, u/, as well as 23 consonants. Compared with most other Romance languages, Italian phonology is conservative, preserving many words nearly unchanged from Vulgar Latin. Some examples:
Like in English, common nouns are capitalized when occurring at the beginning of a sentence. Unlike English, nouns referring to languages (e.g. Italian), speakers of languages, or inhabitants of an area (e.g. Italians) are not capitalized.[97]
Italian is also spoken by a minority in Monaco and France, especially in the southeastern part of the country.[37][1] Italian was the official language in Savoy and in Nice until 1860, when they were both annexed by France under the Treaty of Turin, a development that triggered the "Niçard exodus", or the emigration of a quarter of the Niçard Italians to Italy,[38] and the Niçard Vespers. Italian was the official language of Corsica until 1859.[39] Italian is generally understood in Corsica by the population resident therein who speak Corsican, which is an Italo-Romance idiom similar to Tuscan.[40] Italian was the official language in Monaco until 1860, when it was replaced by the French.[41] This was due to the annexation of the surrounding County of Nice to France following the Treaty of Turin (1860).[41]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Italian at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022)
The standard Italian language has a poetic and literary origin in the writings of Tuscan and Sicilian writers of the 12th century, and, even though the grammar and core lexicon are basically unchanged from those used in Florence in the 13th century,[18] the modern standard of the language was largely shaped by relatively recent events. However, Romance vernacular as language spoken in the Italian Peninsula has a longer history. In fact, the earliest surviving texts that can definitely be called vernacular (as distinct from its predecessor Vulgar Latin) are legal formulae known as the Placiti Cassinesi from the Province of Benevento that date from 960 to 963, although the Veronese Riddle, probably from the 8th or early 9th century, contains a late form of Vulgar Latin that can be seen as a very early sample of a vernacular dialect of Italy. The Commodilla catacomb inscription is also a similar case.
North American DialectsPennsylvaniaLouisianienHoumaCanadianAcadianChiacSt. Marys Bay FrenchBrayonNewfoundlandQuebecoisJoualMagouaFranco-OntarianMétisDetroit River CanadienNew EnglandMissouri French
^ a b c d Rogers & d'Arcangeli (2004), p. 117.
Vulgar Latin -cl- becomes cchi /kkj/ rather than /ʎ/: oclum > occhio "eye" (cf. Portuguese olho /ˈoʎu/, French œil /œj/ < /œʎ/); but Romanian ochi /okʲ/.
Italian phonotactics do not usually permit verbs and polysyllabic nouns to end with consonants, except in poetry and song, so foreign words may receive extra terminal vowel sounds.
Nouns, adjectives, and articles inflect for gender and number (singular and plural).
Some other features that distinguish Italian from the Western Romance languages:
^ a b "Languages covered by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages" (PDF). (PDF)
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
^ "Dati e statistiche". Esteri.it. 28 September 2007. Archived from the original on 7 August 2011. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
The letter g represents the sound /ɡ/ at the end of words and before the letters a, o, and u but represents the sound /dʒ/ (as the first sound in the English word gem) before the letters e and i.
Intervocalically, single /r/ is realised as a trill with one or two contacts.[87] Some literature treats the single-contact trill as a tap [ɾ].[88][89] Single-contact trills can also occur elsewhere, particularly in unstressed syllables.[90] Geminate /rr/ manifests as a trill with three to seven contacts.[87]
Middle AgesItaly under OdoacerOstrogothsByzantiumLombardsPapal Statesthe Holy Roman Empirethe Sardinian JudicatesArabsNormansGuelphs and Ghibellines
^ Longo, Maurizio (2007). "La lingua italiana in Albania" (PDF). Education et Sociétés Plurilingues (in Italian) (22): 51–56. Archived (PDF) from the original on 23 September 2015. Retrieved 28 July 2014. Today, even though for political reasons English is the most widely taught foreign language in Albanian schools, Italian is anyway the most widespread foreign language.
Keating, Dave. "Despite Brexit, English Remains The EU's Most Spoken Language By Far". Forbes. Retrieved 7 February 2020.
The letter c represents the sound /k/ at the end of words and before the letters a, o, and u but represents the sound /tʃ/ (as the first sound in the English word chair) before the letters e and i.
Italian is an official language of Italy and San Marino and is spoken fluently by the majority of the countries' populations. Italian is the third most spoken language in Switzerland (after German and French), though its use there has moderately declined since the 1970s.[34] It is official both on the national level and on regional level in two cantons: Ticino and the Grisons. In the latter canton, however, it is only spoken by a small minority, in the Italian Grisons.[b] Ticino, which includes Lugano, the largest Italian-speaking city outside Italy, is the only canton where Italian is predominant.[35] Italian is also used in administration and official documents in Vatican City.[36]
The letter h is always silent: hotel /oˈtɛl/; hanno 'they have' and anno 'year' both represent /ˈanno/. It is used to form a digraph with c or g to represent /k/ or /g/ before i or e: chi /ki/ 'who', che /ke/ 'what'; aghi /ˈagi/ 'needles', ghetto /ˈgetto/.
Thammy Evans & Rudolf Abraham (2013). Istria. p. 11. ISBN 9781841624457.
Preservation of all Proto-Romance final vowels, e.g. pacem > pace "peace" (cf. Romanian pace, Spanish paz, French paix /pɛ/), octō > otto "eight" (cf. Romanian opt, Spanish ocho, French huit /ɥi(t)/), fēcī > feci "I did" (cf. Romanian dialectal feci, Spanish hice, French fis /fi/).
Within the Catholic Church, Italian is known by a large part of the ecclesiastical hierarchy and is used in substitution for Latin in some official documents.
Italian has geminate, or double, consonants, which are distinguished by length and intensity. Length is distinctive for all consonants except for /ʃ/, /dz/, /ts/, /ʎ/, /ɲ/, which are always geminate when between vowels, and /z/, which is always single.Geminate plosives and affricates are realized as lengthened closures. Geminate fricatives, nasals, and /l/ are realized as lengthened continuants. There is only one vibrant phoneme /r/ but the actual pronunciation depends on context and regional accent. Generally one can find a flap consonant [ɾ] in unstressed position whereas [r] is more common in stressed syllables, but there may be exceptions. Especially people from the Northern part of Italy (Parma, Aosta Valley, South Tyrol) may pronounce /r/ as [ʀ], [ʁ], or [ʋ].[94]
^ Keating, Dave. "Despite Brexit, English Remains The EU's Most Spoken Language By Far". Forbes. Retrieved 7 February 2020.
"Dati e statistiche". Esteri.it. 28 September 2007. Archived from the original on 7 August 2011. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
^ Europeans and their Languages Archived 6 January 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Data for EU27, published in 2012.
^ Coletti, Vittorio (2011). "Storia della lingua". Istituto della Enciclopedia italiana. Retrieved 10 October 2015. L'italiano di oggi ha ancora in gran parte la stessa grammatica e usa ancora lo stesso lessico del fiorentino letterario del Trecento.
Ladefoged & Maddieson (1996), p. 221. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFLadefogedMaddieson1996 (help)
Due to heavy Italian influence during the Italian colonial period, Italian is still understood by some in former colonies such as in Libya.[1] Although it was the primary language in Libya since colonial rule, Italian greatly declined under the rule of Muammar Gaddafi, who expelled the Italian Libyan population and made Arabic the sole official language of the country.[54] A few hundred Italian settlers returned to Libya in the 2000s.
The differences in the evolution of Latin in the different regions of Italy can be attributed to the natural changes that all languages in regular use are subject to, and to some extent to the presence of three other types of languages: substrata, superstrata, and adstrata. The most prevalent were substrata (the language of the original inhabitants), as the Italian dialects were most likely simply Latin as spoken by native cultural groups. Superstrata and adstrata were both less important. Foreign conquerors of Italy that dominated different regions at different times left behind little to no influence on the dialects. Foreign cultures with which Italy engaged in peaceful relations with, such as trade, had no significant influence either.[16]: 19-20
^ a b Luciano Canepari, A Handbook of Pronunciation, chapter 3: «Italian».
^ "Pope Francis to receive Knights of Malta grand master Thursday – English". ANSA.it. 21 June 2016. Retrieved 16 October 2019.
/ɲ/ and /ʎ/ are alveolo-palatal.[85] In a large number of accents, /ʎ/ is a fricative [ʎ̝].[86]
Starting in late medieval times in much of Europe and the Mediterranean, Latin was replaced as the primary commercial language by Italian language variants (especially Tuscan and Venetian). These variants were consolidated during the Renaissance with the strength of Italy and the rise of humanism and the arts.
Italian quattordici "fourteen" < Latin .mw-parser-output span.smallcaps{font-variant:small-caps}.mw-parser-output span.smallcaps-smaller{font-size:85%}quattuordecim (cf. Spanish catorce, French quatorze /katɔʁz/, Catalan and Portuguese catorze)
Danesi, Marcel (2008). Practice Makes Perfect: Complete Italian Grammar, Premium Second Edition. New York: McGraw-Hill Education. ISBN 978-1-259-58772-6.
The Italian alphabet is typically considered to consist of 21 letters. The letters j, k, w, x, y are traditionally excluded, though they appear in loanwords such as jeans, whisky, taxi, xenofobo, xilofono. The letter ⟨x⟩ has become common in standard Italian with the prefix extra-, although (e)stra- is traditionally used; it is also common to use the Latin particle ex(-) to mean "former(ly)" as in: la mia ex ("my ex-girlfriend"), "Ex-Jugoslavia" ("Former Yugoslavia"). The letter ⟨j⟩ appears in the first name Jacopo and in some Italian place-names, such as Bajardo, Bojano, Joppolo, Jerzu, Jesolo, Jesi, Ajaccio, among others, and in Mar Jonio, an alternative spelling of Mar Ionio (the Ionian Sea). The letter ⟨j⟩ may appear in dialectal words, but its use is discouraged in contemporary standard Italian.[93] Letters used in foreign words can be replaced with phonetically equivalent native Italian letters and digraphs: ⟨gi⟩, ⟨ge⟩, or ⟨i⟩ for ⟨j⟩; ⟨c⟩ or ⟨ch⟩ for ⟨k⟩ (including in the standard prefix kilo-); ⟨o⟩, ⟨u⟩ or ⟨v⟩ for ⟨w⟩; ⟨s⟩, ⟨ss⟩, ⟨z⟩, ⟨zz⟩ or ⟨cs⟩ for ⟨x⟩; and ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩ for ⟨y⟩.
Abalain, Hervé, (2007) Le français et les langues historiques de la France, Éditions Jean-Paul Gisserot, p.113
FrenchJerseyFrancitanNorth American DialectsPennsylvaniaLouisianienHoumaCanadianAcadianChiacSt. Marys Bay FrenchBrayonNewfoundlandQuebecoisJoualMagouaFranco-OntarianMétisDetroit River CanadienNew EnglandMissouri FrenchCreoles
"Il monegasco, una lingua che si studia a scuola ed è obbligatoria"
Perhaps most noticeable is the total lack of metaphony, though metaphony is a feature characterizing nearly every other Italian language.
The order of words in the phrase is relatively free compared to most European languages.[93] The position of the verb in the phrase is highly mobile. Word order often has a lesser grammatical function in Italian than in English. Adjectives are sometimes placed before their noun and sometimes after. Subject nouns generally come before the verb. Italian is a null-subject language, so that nominative pronouns are usually absent, with subject indicated by verbal inflections (e.g. amo 'I love', ama '(s)he loves', amano 'they love'). Noun objects normally come after the verb, as do pronoun objects after imperative verbs, infinitives and gerunds, but otherwise pronoun objects come before the verb.
"Il monegasco, una lingua che si studia a scuola ed è obbligatoria" (in Italian). 15 September 2014. Retrieved 6 June 2022.
Monarchy and the World WarsKingdom of ItalyIrredentismColonial EmpireWorld War IFascist ItalyWorld War IIResistance and Social RepublicCivil War
^ "Come si informano gli italiani all'estero" (in Italian). Retrieved 6 June 2022.
^ ""Un nizzardo su quattro prese la via dell'esilio" in seguito all'unità d'Italia, dice lo scrittore Casalino Pierluigi" (in Italian). 28 August 2017. Retrieved 14 May 2021.
There is no definitive date when the various Italian variants of Latin—including varieties that contributed to modern Standard Italian—began to be distinct enough from Latin to be considered separate languages. One criterion for determining that two language variants are to be considered separate languages rather than variants of a single language is that they have evolved so that they are no longer mutually intelligible; this diagnostic is effective if mutual intelligibility is minimal or absent (e.g. in Romance, Romanian and Portuguese), but it fails in cases such as Spanish-Portuguese or Spanish-Italian, as educated native speakers of either pairing can understand each other well if they choose to do so; however, the level of intelligibility is markedly lower between Italian-Spanish, and considerably higher between the Iberian sister languages of Portuguese-Spanish. Speakers of this latter pair can communicate with one another with remarkable ease, each speaking to the other in his own native language without slang/jargon. Nevertheless, on the basis of accumulated differences in morphology, syntax, phonology, and to some extent lexicon, it is not difficult to identify that for the Romance varieties of Italy, the first extant written evidence of languages that can no longer be considered Latin comes from the ninth and tenth centuries C.E. These written sources demonstrate certain vernacular characteristics and sometimes explicitly mention the use of the vernacular in Italy. Full literary manifestations of the vernacular began to surface around the 13th century in the form of various religious texts and poetry.[16]: 21 Although these are the first written records of Italian varieties separate from Latin, the spoken language had likely diverged long before the first written records appear, since those who were literate generally wrote in Latin even if they spoke other Romance varieties in person.
Lodge, R. Anthony; Pugh, Stefan (2007). Language contact and minority languages on the littorals of Europe. Logos Verlag. pp. 235–238. ISBN 9783832516444.
Italian (italiano [itaˈljaːno] (listen) or lingua italiana [ˈliŋɡwa itaˈljaːna]) is a Romance language of the Indo-European language family that evolved from the Vulgar Latin of the Roman Empire. Together with Sardinian, Italian is the least divergent language from Latin.[6][7][8][9] Spoken by about 85 million people (2022), Italian is an official language in Italy, Switzerland (Ticino and the Grisons), San Marino, and Vatican City. It has official minority status in Croatia and in some areas of Slovenian Istria.
"Romance languages". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 19 February 2017. ...if the Romance languages are compared with Latin, it is seen that by most measures Sardinian and Italian are least differentiated...
Toso, Fiorenzo. Lo spazio linguistico corso tra insularità e destino di frontiera, in Linguistica, 43, pp. 79–80, 2003
Recasens (2013), p. 13. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFRecasens2013 (help)
Ashby, Patricia (2011), Understanding Phonetics, Understanding Language series, Routledge, ISBN 978-0340928271
The Big Book of Italian Verbs: 900 Fully Conjugated Verbs in All Tenses. With IPA Transcription, 2nd Edition
Italian immigrants to South America have also brought a presence of the language to that continent. According to some sources, Italian is the second most spoken language in Argentina[59] after the official language of Spanish, although its number of speakers, mainly of the older generation, is decreasing. Italian bilingual speakers can be found scattered across the Southeast of Brazil as well as in the South,[1] In Venezuela, Italian is the most spoken language after Spanish and Portuguese, with around 200,000 speakers.[60] In Uruguay, people that speak Italian as their home language is 1.1% of the total population of the country.[61] In Australia, Italian is the second most spoken foreign language after Chinese, with 1.4% of the population speaking it as their home language.[62]
The Italian language has progressed through a long and slow process, which started after the Western Roman Empire's fall in the 5th century.[19]
^ "Los segundos idiomas más hablados de Sudamérica | AméricaEconomía – El sitio de los negocios globales de América Latina". Americaeconomia.com. 16 July 2015. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
Clivio, Gianrenzo; Danesi, Marcel (2000). The Sounds, Forms, and Uses of Italian: An Introduction to Italian Linguistics. University of Toronto Press. pp. 21, 66.
^ "Language Spoken at Home: 2000". United States Bureau of the Census. Archived from the original on 12 February 2020. Retrieved 8 August 2012.
^ The Vatican City State appendix to the Acta Apostolicae Sedis is entirely in Italian.
/j/, /w/, and /z/ are the only consonants that cannot be geminated.
Slower consonant development, e.g. folia > Italo-Western /fɔʎʎa/ > foglia /ˈfɔʎʎa/ "leaf" (cf. Romanian foaie /ˈfo̯aje/, Spanish hoja /ˈoxa/, French feuille /fœj/; but note Portuguese folha /ˈfoʎɐ/).
Final /s/ is not preserved, and vowel changes rather than /s/ are used to mark the plural: amico, amici "male friend(s)", amica, amiche "female friend(s)" (cf. Romanian amic, amici and amică, amice; Spanish amigo(s) "male friend(s)", amiga(s) "female friend(s)"); trēs, sex → tre, sei "three, six" (cf. Romanian trei, șase; Spanish tres, seis).
The spellings ci and gi represent only /tʃ/ (as in English church) or /dʒ/ (as in English judge) with no /i/ sound before another vowel (ciuccio /ˈtʃuttʃo/ 'pacifier', Giorgio /ˈdʒɔrdʒo/) unless c or g precede stressed /i/ (farmacia /farmaˈtʃia/ 'pharmacy', biologia /bioloˈdʒia/ 'biology'). Elsewhere ci and gi represent /tʃ/ and /dʒ/ followed by /i/: cibo /ˈtʃibo/ 'food', baci /ˈbatʃi/ 'kisses'; gita /ˈdʒita/ 'trip', Tamigi /taˈmidʒi/ 'Thames'.*
The letter ⟨h⟩ distinguishes ho, hai, ha, hanno (present indicative of avere "to have") from o ("or"), ai ("to the"), a ("to"), anno ("year"). In the spoken language, the letter is always silent. The ⟨h⟩ in ho additionally marks the contrasting open pronunciation of the ⟨o⟩. The letter ⟨h⟩ is also used in combinations with other letters. No phoneme /h/ exists in Italian. In nativized foreign words, the ⟨h⟩ is silent. For example, hotel and hovercraft are pronounced /oˈtɛl/ and /ˈɔverkraft/ respectively. (Where ⟨h⟩ existed in Latin, it either disappeared or, in a few cases before a back vowel, changed to [ɡ]: traggo "I pull" ← Lat. trahō.)
The Renaissance era, known as il Rinascimento in Italian, was seen as a time of rebirth, which is the literal meaning of both renaissance (from French) and rinascimento (Italian).
"Information Technology and Economic Change: The Impact of the Printing Press"
Italy has always had a distinctive dialect for each city because the cities, until recently, were thought of as city-states. Those dialects now have considerable variety. As Tuscan-derived Italian came to be used throughout Italy, features of local speech were naturally adopted, producing various versions of Regional Italian. The most characteristic differences, for instance, between Roman Italian and Milanese Italian are syntactic gemination of initial consonants in some contexts and the pronunciation of stressed "e", and of "s" between vowels in many words: e.g. va benecode: ita promoted to code: it"all right" is pronounced [vabˈbɛːne] by a Roman (and by any standard Italian speaker), [vaˈbeːne] by a Milanese (and by any speaker whose native dialect lies to the north of the La Spezia–Rimini Line); a casacode: ita promoted to code: it"at home" is [akˈkaːsa] for Roman, [akˈkaːsa] or [akˈkaːza] for standard, [aˈkaːza] for Milanese and generally northern.[20]
Preservation of geminate consonants, e.g. annum > /ˈan.no/ anno "year" (cf. Spanish año /ˈaɲo/, French an /ɑ̃/, Romanian an, Portuguese ano /ˈɐnu/).
The Vatican City State appendix to the Acta Apostolicae Sedis is entirely in Italian.
"Državni Zavod za Statistiku" (in Croatian). Retrieved 10 June 2017.
"A preliminary contribution to the study of phonetic variation of /r/ in Italian and Italo-Romance."
The courtiers, like Baldassare Castiglione and Gian Giorgio Trissino, insisted that each local vernacular contribute to the new standard.
^ "MULTILINGVISM ŞI LIMBI MINORITARE ÎN ROMÂNIA" (PDF) (in Romanian). Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 December 2019. Retrieved 13 June 2019.
Canepari, Luciano (January 1999). Il MªPI – Manuale di pronuncia italiana (second ed.). Bologna: Zanichelli. ISBN 978-88-08-24624-0.
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 09:36 (UTC).
P., McKay, John (2006). A history of Western society. Hill, Bennett D., Buckler, John. (8th ed.). Boston: Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 978-0-618-52273-6. OCLC 58837884.
There are three types of adjectives: descriptive, invariable and form-changing. Descriptive adjectives are the most common, and their endings change to match the number and gender of the noun they modify. Invariable adjectives are adjectives whose endings do not change. The form changing adjectives "buono (good), bello (beautiful), grande (big), and santo (saint)" change in form when placed before different types of nouns. Italian has three degrees for comparison of adjectives: positive, comparative, and superlative.[97]
Of special interest to the linguistic study of Regional Italian is the gorgia toscana, or "Tuscan Throat", the weakening or lenition of intervocalic /p/, /t/, and /k/ in the Tuscan language.
"Despite Brexit, English Remains The EU's Most Spoken Language By Far"
As of 2022, Australia had the highest number of students learning Italian in the world. This occurred because of support by the Italian community in Australia and the Italian Government and also because of successful educational reform efforts led by local governments in Australia.[68]
3Geographic distribution											Toggle Geographic distribution subsection																					3.1Education																											3.2Influence and derived languages																											3.3Lingua franca
^ Fleure, H. J. The peoples of Europe. ISBN 9781176926981.
«La dominazione sabauda in Sardegna può essere considerata come la fase iniziale di un lungo processo di italianizzazione dell'isola, con la capillare diffusione dell'italiano in quanto strumento per il superamento della frammentarietà tipica del contesto linguistico dell'isola e con il conseguente inserimento delle sue strutture economiche e culturali in un contesto internazionale più ampio e aperto ai contatti di più lato respiro. [...] Proprio la variegata composizione linguistica della Sardegna fu considerata negativamente per qualunque tentativo di assorbimento dell'isola nella sfera culturale italiana.» Loi Corvetto, Ines. I Savoia e le "vie" dell'unificazione linguistica. Quoted in Putzu, Ignazio; Mazzon, Gabriella (2012). Lingue, letterature, nazioni. Centri e periferie tra Europa e Mediterraneo, p.488.
^ See Italica 1950: 46 (cf. [2] and [3]): "Pei, Mario A. "A New Methodology for Romance Classification." Word, v, 2 (Aug. 1949), 135–146. Demonstrates a comparative statistical method for determining the extent of change from the Latin for the free and checked stressed vowels of French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Rumanian, Old Provençal, and Logudorese Sardinian. By assigning 3½ change points per vowel (with 2 points for diphthongization, 1 point for modification in vowel quantity, ½ point for changes due to nasalization, palatalization or umlaut, and −½ point for failure to effect a normal change), there is a maximum of 77 change points for free and checked stressed vowel sounds (11×2×3½=77). According to this system (illustrated by seven charts at the end of the article), the percentage of change is greatest in French (44%) and least in Italian (12%) and Sardinian (8%). Prof. Pei suggests that this statistical method be extended not only to all other phonological but also to all morphological and syntactical, phenomena.".
There are 27 pronouns, grouped in clitic and tonic pronouns. Personal pronouns are separated into three groups: subject, object (which take the place of both direct and indirect objects), and reflexive. Second person subject pronouns have both a polite and a familiar form. These two different types of address are very important in Italian social distinctions. All object pronouns have two forms: stressed and unstressed (clitics). Unstressed object pronouns are much more frequently used, and come before a verb conjugated for subject verb (La vedi. 'You see her.'), after (in writing, attached to) non-conjugated verbs (vedendola 'seeing her'). Stressed object pronouns come after the verb, and are used when emphasis is required, for contrast, or to avoid ambiguity (Vedo lui, ma non lei. 'I see him, but not her'). Aside from personal pronouns, Italian also has demonstrative, interrogative, possessive, and relative pronouns. There are two types of demonstrative pronouns: relatively near (this) and relatively far (that). Demonstratives in Italian are repeated before each noun, unlike in English.[97]
^ Zonova, Tatiana. "The Italian language: soft power or dolce potere?." Rivista di Studi Politici Internazionali (2013): 227–231.
M. Vitale, Studi di Storia della Lingua Italiana, LED Edizioni Universitarie, Milano, 1992, ISBN 88-7916-015-X
/t, d/ are laminal denti-alveolar [t̪, d̪],[74][75][72] commonly called "dental" for simplicity.
Coletti, Vittorio (2011). "Storia della lingua". Istituto della Enciclopedia italiana. Retrieved 10 October 2015. L'italiano di oggi ha ancora in gran parte la stessa grammatica e usa ancora lo stesso lessico del fiorentino letterario del Trecento.
^ Venetian is either grouped with the rest of the Italo-Dalmatian or the Gallo-Italic languages, depending on the linguist.
Pages using collapsible list with both background and text-align in titlestyle
Throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the use of Standard Italian became increasingly widespread and was mirrored by a decline in the use of the dialects. An increase in literacy was one of the main driving factors (one can assume that only literates were capable of learning Standard Italian, whereas those who were illiterate had access only to their native dialect). The percentage of literates rose from 25% in 1861 to 60% in 1911, and then on to 78.1% in 1951. Tullio De Mauro, an Italian linguist, has asserted that in 1861 only 2.5% of the population of Italy could speak Standard Italian. He reports that in 1951 that percentage had risen to 87%. The ability to speak Italian did not necessarily mean it was in everyday use, and most people (63.5%) still usually spoke their native dialects. In addition, other factors such as mass emigration, industrialization, and urbanization, and internal migrations after World War II, contributed to the proliferation of Standard Italian. The Italians who emigrated during the Italian diaspora beginning in 1861 were often of the uneducated lower class, and thus the emigration had the effect of increasing the percentage of literates, who often knew and understood the importance of Standard Italian, back home in Italy. A large percentage of those who had emigrated also eventually returned to Italy, often more educated than when they had left.[16]: 35
The digraphs ⟨ch⟩ and ⟨gh⟩ indicate (/k/ and /ɡ/) before ⟨i, e⟩. The digraphs ⟨ci⟩ and ⟨gi⟩ indicate "softness" (/tʃ/ and /dʒ/, the affricate consonants of English church and judge) before ⟨a, o, u⟩. For example:
Preservation of most intertonic vowels (those between the stressed syllable and either the beginning or ending syllable). This accounts for some of the most noticeable differences, as in the forms quattordici and settimana given above.
^ a b c d e f Danesi, Marcel (2008). Practice Makes Perfect: Complete Italian Grammar, Premium Second Edition. New York: McGraw-Hill Education. ISBN 978-1-259-58772-6.
Marc-Christian Riebe, Retail Market Study 2015, p. 36. "the largest city in Ticino, and the largest Italian-speaking city outside of Italy."
Latin -ct- becomes /tt/ rather than /jt/ or /tʃ/: octō > otto "eight" (cf. Spanish ocho, French huit, Portuguese oito).
^ "Državni Zavod za Statistiku" (in Croatian). Retrieved 10 June 2017.
"I Promessi sposi or The Betrothed". Archived from the original on 18 July 2011.
List of countries and territories where Italian is an official language
^ a b c d e f g h i j k
^ Recasens (2013), p. 13. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFRecasens2013 (help)
^ Lodge, R. Anthony; Pugh, Stefan (2007). Language contact and minority languages on the littorals of Europe. Logos Verlag. pp. 235–238. ISBN 9783832516444.
Italian was the official language of Eritrea during Italian colonisation. Italian is today used in commerce, and it is still spoken especially among elders; besides that, Italian words are incorporated as loan words in the main language spoken in the country (Tigrinya). The capital city of Eritrea, Asmara, still has several Italian schools, established during the colonial period. In the early 19th century, Eritrea was the country with the highest number of Italians abroad, and the Italian Eritreans grew from 4,000 during World War I to nearly 100,000 at the beginning of World War II.[55] In Asmara there are two Italian schools, the Italian School of Asmara (Italian primary school with a Montessori department) and the Liceo Sperimentale "G. Marconi" (Italian international senior high school).
Italian has a shallow orthography, meaning very regular spelling with an almost one-to-one correspondence between letters and sounds. In linguistic terms, the writing system is close to being a phonemic orthography. The most important of the few exceptions are the following (see below for more details):
^ Cardia, Amos.S'italianu in Sardìnnia candu, cumenti e poita d'ant impostu : 1720–1848; poderi e lìngua in Sardìnnia in edadi spanniola , pp. 80–93, Iskra, 2006.
^ "Europeans and their Languages" (PDF). European Commission: Directorate General for Education and Culture and Directorate General Press and Communication. February 2006. Archived (PDF) from the original on 3 August 2008. Retrieved 28 June 2013.
^ Romano, Antonio. "A preliminary contribution to the study of phonetic variation of /r/ in Italian and Italo-Romance." Rhotics. New data and perspectives (Proc. of’r-atics-3, Libera Università di Bolzano (2011): 209–226, pp. 213–214.
^ James M. Markham (6 June 1987). "Election Opens Old Wounds in Trieste". The New York Times. Retrieved 9 June 2016.
Italian literature's first modern novel, I promessi sposi (The Betrothed) by Alessandro Manzoni, further defined the standard by "rinsing" his Milanese "in the waters of the Arno" (Florence's river), as he states in the preface to his 1840 edition.
There are three regular sets of verbal conjugations, and various verbs are irregularly conjugated. Within each of these sets of conjugations, there are four simple (one-word) verbal conjugations by person/number in the indicative mood (present tense; past tense with imperfective aspect, past tense with perfective aspect, and future tense), two simple conjugations in the subjunctive mood (present tense and past tense), one simple conjugation in the conditional mood, and one simple conjugation in the imperative mood. Corresponding to each of the simple conjugations, there is a compound conjugation involving a simple conjugation of "to be" or "to have" followed by a past participle. "To have" is used to form compound conjugation when the verb is transitive ("Ha detto", "ha fatto": he/she has said, he/she has made/done), while "to be" is used in the case of verbs of motion and some other intransitive verbs ("È andato", "è stato": he has gone, he has been). "To be" may be used with transitive verbs, but in such a case it makes the verb passive ("È detto", "è fatto": it is said, it is made/done). This rule is not absolute, and some exceptions do exist.
^ Bernasconi, Giulia (2012). "L'ITALIANO IN VENEZUELA". Italiano LinguaDue (in Italian). Università degli Studi di Milano. 3 (2): 20. doi:10.13130/2037-3597/1921. Archived from the original on 2 February 2017. Retrieved 22 January 2017. L'italiano come lingua acquisita o riacquisita è largamente diffuso in Venezuela: recenti studi stimano circa 200.000 studenti di italiano nel Paese
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Centro documentazione per l'integrazione". Cdila.it. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
Romano, Antonio. "A preliminary contribution to the study of phonetic variation of /r/ in Italian and Italo-Romance." Rhotics. New data and perspectives (Proc. of’r-atics-3, Libera Università di Bolzano (2011): 209–226, pp. 213–214.
Note: the plural form of verbs could also be used as an extremely formal (for example to noble people in monarchies) singular form (see royal we).
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Centro documentazione per l'integrazione". Cdila.it. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
"Data tables, 2016 Census". Statistics Canada. 2 August 2017. Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 26 October 2017.
Hajek, John; Aliani, Renata; Slaughter, Yvette (November 2022). "From the Periphery to the Center Stage: The Mainstreaming of Italian in the Australian Education System (1960s to 1990s)". History of Education Quarterly. 62 (4): 475–97. doi:10.1017/heq.2022.30. S2CID 253447737.
Non-retracted apical alveolar [t͡s̺, d͡z̺, s̺, z̺].[76] The stop component of the "apical" affricates is actually laminal denti-alveolar.[76]
"Italian — University of Leicester". .le.ac.uk. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
^ «La dominazione sabauda in Sardegna può essere considerata come la fase iniziale di un lungo processo di italianizzazione dell'isola, con la capillare diffusione dell'italiano in quanto strumento per il superamento della frammentarietà tipica del contesto linguistico dell'isola e con il conseguente inserimento delle sue strutture economiche e culturali in un contesto internazionale più ampio e aperto ai contatti di più lato respiro. [...] Proprio la variegata composizione linguistica della Sardegna fu considerata negativamente per qualunque tentativo di assorbimento dell'isola nella sfera culturale italiana.» Loi Corvetto, Ines. I Savoia e le "vie" dell'unificazione linguistica. Quoted in Putzu, Ignazio; Mazzon, Gabriella (2012). Lingue, letterature, nazioni. Centri e periferie tra Europa e Mediterraneo, p.488.
^ a b c d Canepari (1992), pp. 68, 75–76.
Canepari, Luciano (1992), Il MªPi – Manuale di pronuncia italiana [Handbook of Italian Pronunciation] (in Italian), Bologna: Zanichelli, ISBN 978-88-08-24624-0
^ "Romance languages". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 19 February 2017. ...if the Romance languages are compared with Latin, it is seen that by most measures Sardinian and Italian are least differentiated...
"Language Spoken at Home: 2000". United States Bureau of the Census. Archived from the original on 12 February 2020. Retrieved 8 August 2012.
^ Kellogg, Michael. "Dizionario italiano-inglese WordReference". WordReference.com (in Italian and English). WordReference.com. Retrieved 7 August 2015.
/n, l, r/ are apical alveolar [n̺, l̺, r̺] in most environments.[74][72][77] /n, l/ are laminal denti-alveolar [n̪, l̪] before /t, d, t͡s, d͡z, s, z/[72][78][79] and palatalized laminal postalveolar [n̠ʲ, l̠ʲ] before /t͡ʃ, d͡ʒ, ʃ/.[80][81][dubious– discuss] /n/ is velar [ŋ] before /k, ɡ/.[82][83]
There are two basic classes of nouns in Italian, referred to as genders, masculine and feminine. Gender may be natural (ragazzo 'boy', ragazza 'girl') or simply grammatical with no possible reference to biological gender (masculine costo 'cost', feminine costa 'coast'). Masculine nouns typically end in -o (ragazzo 'boy'), with plural marked by -i (ragazzi 'boys'), and feminine nouns typically end in -a, with plural marked by -e (ragazza 'girl', ragazze 'girls'). For a group composed of boys and girls, ragazzi is the plural, suggesting that -i is a general neutral plural. A third category of nouns is unmarked for gender, ending in -e in the singular and -i in the plural: legge 'law, f. sg.', leggi 'laws, f. pl.'; fiume 'river, m. sg.', fiumi 'rivers, m. pl.', thus assignment of gender is arbitrary in terms of form, enough so that terms may be identical but of distinct genders: fine meaning 'aim', 'purpose' is masculine, while fine meaning 'end, ending' (e.g. of a movie) is feminine, and both are fini in the plural, a clear instance of -i as a non-gendered default plural marker. These nouns often, but not always, denote inanimates. There are a number of nouns that have a masculine singular and a feminine plural, most commonly of the pattern m. sg. -o, f. pl. -a (miglio 'mile, m. sg.', miglia 'miles, f. pl.'; paio 'pair, m. sg., paia 'pairs, f. pl.'), and thus are sometimes considered neuter (these are usually derived from neuter Latin nouns). An instance of neuter gender also exists in pronouns of the third person singular.[95]
The following are some of the conservative phonological features of Italian, as compared with the common Western Romance languages (French, Spanish, Portuguese, Galician, Catalan). Some of these features are also present in Romanian.
It formerly had official status in Montenegro (because of the Venetian Albania), parts of Slovenia and Croatia (because of the Venetian Istria and Venetian Dalmatia), parts of Greece (because of the Venetian rule in the Ionian Islands and by the Kingdom of Italy in the Dodecanese). Italian is widely spoken in Malta, where nearly two-thirds of the population can speak it fluently.[42] Italian served as Malta's official language until 1934, when it was abolished by the British colonial administration amid strong local opposition.[43] Italian language in Slovenia is an officially recognized minority language in the country.[44] The official census, carried out in 2002, reported 2,258 ethnic Italians (Istrian Italians) in Slovenia (0.11% of the total population).[45] Italian language in Croatia is an official minority language in the country, with many schools and public announcements published in both languages.[44] The 2001 census in Croatia reported 19,636 ethnic Italians (Istrian Italians and Dalmatian Italians) in the country (some 0.42% of the total population).[46] Their numbers dropped dramatically after World War II following the Istrian–Dalmatian exodus, which caused the emigration of between 230,000 and 350,000 Istrian Italians and Dalmatian Italians.[47][48] Italian was the official language of the Republic of Ragusa from 1492 to 1807.[49]
Dentalized laminal alveolar [t̪͡s̪, d̪͡z̪, s̪, z̪][74][76] (commonly called "dental" for simplicity), pronounced with the blade of the tongue very close to the upper front teeth, with the tip of the tongue resting behind lower front teeth.[76]
/t͡s, d͡z, s, z/ have two variants:Dentalized laminal alveolar [t̪͡s̪, d̪͡z̪, s̪, z̪][74][76] (commonly called "dental" for simplicity), pronounced with the blade of the tongue very close to the upper front teeth, with the tip of the tongue resting behind lower front teeth.[76]Non-retracted apical alveolar [t͡s̺, d͡z̺, s̺, z̺].[76] The stop component of the "apical" affricates is actually laminal denti-alveolar.[76]
^ a b Clivio, Gianrenzo; Danesi, Marcel (2000). The Sounds, Forms, and Uses of Italian: An Introduction to Italian Linguistics. University of Toronto Press. pp. 21, 66.
Bernasconi, Giulia (2012). "L'ITALIANO IN VENEZUELA". Italiano LinguaDue (in Italian). Università degli Studi di Milano. 3 (2): 20. doi:10.13130/2037-3597/1921. Archived from the original on 2 February 2017. Retrieved 22 January 2017. L'italiano come lingua acquisita o riacquisita è largamente diffuso in Venezuela: recenti studi stimano circa 200.000 studenti di italiano nel Paese
"2011 Census QuickStats: Australia". Censusdata.abs.gov.au. Archived from the original on 6 November 2015. Retrieved 22 October 2015.
/m/ and /n/ do not contrast before /p, b/ and /f, v/, where they are pronounced [m] and [ɱ], respectively.[82][84]
^ a b "Il monegasco, una lingua che si studia a scuola ed è obbligatoria" (in Italian). 15 September 2014. Retrieved 6 June 2022.
"Encuesta Telefónica de Idiomas (ETI) 2019". Instituto Nacional de Estadística Instituto Nacional de Estadística – Uruguay. 2019. Archived from the original on 28 October 2020.
^ Hajek, John; Aliani, Renata; Slaughter, Yvette (November 2022). "From the Periphery to the Center Stage: The Mainstreaming of Italian in the Australian Education System (1960s to 1990s)". History of Education Quarterly. 62 (4): 475–97. doi:10.1017/heq.2022.30. S2CID 253447737.
"The sound pattern of Standard Italian, as compared with the varieties spoken in Florence, Milan and Rome"
^ [1] Archived 3 October 2009 at the Wayback Machine
^ a b Ladefoged & Maddieson (1996), p. 221. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFLadefogedMaddieson1996 (help)
There are numerous contractions of prepositions with subsequent articles. There are numerous productive suffixes for diminutive, augmentative, pejorative, attenuating, etc., which are also used to create neologisms.
In some cases, colonies were established where variants of regional languages of Italy were used, and some continue to use this regional language. Examples are Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, where Talian is used, and the town of Chipilo near Puebla, Mexico; each continues to use a derived form of Venetian dating back to the nineteenth century. Another example is Cocoliche, an Italian–Spanish pidgin once spoken in Argentina and especially in Buenos Aires, and Lunfardo.
^ a b c d e f Lepschy, Anna Laura; Lepschy, Giulio C. (1988). The Italian language today (2nd ed.). New York: New Amsterdam. pp. 13, 22, 19–20, 21, 35, 37. ISBN 978-0-941533-22-5. OCLC 17650220.
"Languages covered by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages"
Kellogg, Michael. "Dizionario italiano-inglese WordReference". WordReference.com (in Italian and English). WordReference.com. Retrieved 7 August 2015.
^ "I Promessi sposi or The Betrothed". Archived from the original on 18 July 2011.
"Come si informano gli italiani all'estero" (in Italian). Retrieved 6 June 2022.
James M. Markham (6 June 1987). "Election Opens Old Wounds in Trieste". The New York Times. Retrieved 9 June 2016.
"La tutela delle minoranze linguistiche in Slovenia" (in Italian). 22 April 2020. Retrieved 5 June 2022.
Language contact and minority languages on the littorals of Europe
S. Morgana, Capitoli di Storia Linguistica Italiana, LED Edizioni Universitarie, Milano, 2003, ISBN 88-7916-211-X
It formerly had official status in Albania due to the annexation of the country to the Kingdom of Italy (1939–1943). Albania has a large population of non-native speakers, with over half of the population having some knowledge of the Italian language.[50] The Albanian government has pushed to make Italian a compulsory second language in schools.[51] The Italian language is well-known and studied in Albania,[52] due to its historical ties and geographical proximity to Italy and to the diffusion of Italian television in the country.[53]
Italian is a major language in Europe, being one of the official languages of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe and one of the working languages of the Council of Europe. It is the second-most-widely spoken native language in the European Union with 67 million speakers (15% of the EU population) and it is spoken as a second language by 13.4 million EU citizens (3%).[11][12] Including Italian speakers in non-EU European countries (such as Switzerland, Albania and the United Kingdom) and on other continents, the total number of speakers is approximately 85 million.[13] Italian is the main working language of the Holy See, serving as the lingua franca (common language) in the Roman Catholic hierarchy as well as the official language of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. Italian has a significant use in musical terminology and opera with numerous Italian words referring to music that have become international terms taken into various languages worldwide.[14] Italian was adopted by the state after the Unification of Italy, having previously been a literary language based on Tuscan as spoken mostly by the upper class of Florentine society.[15] Almost all native Italian words end with vowels and has a 7-vowel sound system ('e' and 'o' have mid-low and mid-high sounds). Italian has contrast between short and long consonants and gemination (doubling) of consonants.
^ "History of the Italian language". Italian-language.biz. Archived from the original on 3 September 2006. Retrieved 24 September 2006.
Italian settimana "week" < Latin septimāna (cf. Romanian săptămână, Spanish and Portuguese semana, French semaine /səmɛn/, Catalan setmana)
Europeans and their Languages Archived 6 January 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Data for EU27, published in 2012.
Italian medesimo "same" < Vulgar Latin *medi(p)simum (cf. Spanish mismo, Portuguese mesmo, French même /mɛm/, Catalan mateix; note that Italian usually prefers the shorter stesso)
^ Winters, Margaret E. (8 May 2020). Historical Linguistics: A cognitive grammar introduction. ISBN 9789027261236.
Italian is also spoken by large immigrant and expatriate communities in the Americas and Australia.[1] Italian is included under the languages covered by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Romania, although Italian is neither a co-official nor a protected language in these countries.[5][10] Many speakers of Italian are native bilinguals of both Italian (either in its standard form or regional varieties) and a local language of Italy, most frequently the language spoken at home in their place of origin.[1]
^ "Il giornale italo-brasiliano (Fanfulla)" (in Italian). Retrieved 6 June 2022.
According to the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, every year there are more than 200,000 foreign students who study the Italian language; they are distributed among the 90 Institutes of Italian Culture that are located around the world, in the 179 Italian schools located abroad, or in the 111 Italian lecturer sections belonging to foreign schools where Italian is taught as a language of culture.[67]
"Albanian government makes Italian an obligatory language in professional schools"
The phonetic distinction between [s] and [z] is neutralized before consonants and at the beginning of words: the former is used before voiceless consonants and before vowels at the beginning of words; the latter is used before voiced consonants. The two can contrast only between vowels within a word, e.g. [ˈfuːzo] 'melted' vs. [ˈfuːso] 'spindle'. According to Canepari,[89] though, the traditional standard has been replaced by a modern neutral pronunciation which always prefers /z/ when intervocalic, except when the intervocalic s is the initial sound of a word, if the compound is still felt as such: for example, presento /preˈsɛnto/[91] ('I foresee', with pre meaning 'before' and sento meaning 'I perceive') vs presento /preˈzɛnto/[92] ('I present'). There are many words for which dictionaries now indicate that both pronunciations, either [z] or [s], are acceptable. Word-internally between vowels, both phonemes have merged in many regional varieties of Italian, as either /z/ (Northern-Central) or /s/ (Southern-Central).
^ Italian is the main language of the valleys of Calanca, Mesolcina, Bregaglia and val Poschiavo. In the village of Maloja, it is spoken by about half the population. It is also spoken by a minority in the village of Bivio.
^ Andreose, Alvise; Renzi, Lorenzo (2013), "Geography and distribution of the Romance Languages in Europe",in Maiden, Martin; Smith, John Charles; Ledgeway, Adam (eds.), The Cambridge History of the Romance Languages, vol. 2, Contexts, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 302–308
^ Podestà, Gian Luca. "L'emigrazione italiana in Africa orientale" (PDF). Retrieved 10 February 2022.
^ a b c Bertinetto & Loporcaro (2005), p. 132.
"Pope Francis to receive Knights of Malta grand master Thursday – English"
^ Toso, Fiorenzo. Lo spazio linguistico corso tra insularità e destino di frontiera, in Linguistica, 43, pp. 79–80, 2003
^ Abalain, Hervé, (2007) Le français et les langues historiques de la France, Éditions Jean-Paul Gisserot, p.113
^ "Albanian government makes Italian an obligatory language in professional schools". balkaneu.com. February 2014. Archived from the original on 9 August 2018. Retrieved 8 November 2018.
J. Kinder, CLIC: Cultura e Lingua d'Italia in CD-ROM / Culture and Language of Italy on CD-ROM, Interlinea, Novara, 2008, ISBN 978-88-8212-637-7
Venetian is either grouped with the rest of the Italo-Dalmatian or the Gallo-Italic languages, depending on the linguist.
"Language and Idiom in Sforza Pallavicino's Trattato dello stile e del dialogo"
No simplification of original /nd/, /mb/ (which often became /nn/, /mm/ elsewhere).
Salvatore Battaglia (1961–2002). "Grande dizionario della lingua italiana. Prototipo edizione digitale". UTET.
The purists, headed by Venetian Pietro Bembo (who, in his Gli Asolanicode: ita promoted to code: it , claimed the language might be based only on the great literary classics, such as Petrarch and some part of Boccaccio). The purists thought the Divine Comedy was not dignified enough because it used elements from non-lyric registers of the language.
The letters ⟨s⟩ and ⟨z⟩ can symbolize voiced or voiceless consonants. ⟨z⟩ symbolizes /dz/ or /ts/ depending on context, with few minimal pairs. For example: zanzara /dzanˈdzara/ "mosquito" and nazione /natˈtsjone/ "nation". ⟨s⟩ symbolizes /s/ word-initially before a vowel, when clustered with a voiceless consonant (⟨p, f, c, ch⟩), and when doubled; it symbolizes /z/ when between vowels and when clustered with voiced consonants. Intervocalic ⟨s⟩ varies regionally between /s/ and /z/, with /z/ being more dominant in northern Italy and /s/ in the south.
^ Longo, Maurizio; Ademi, Esmeralda; Bulija, Mirjana (June 2010). "Una quantificazione della penetrazione della lingua italiana in Albania tramite la televisione (III)" [A quantification of the diffusion of the Italian language in Albania via television] (PDF). Education et Sociétés Plurilingues (in Italian) (28): 53–63. Archived from the original on 8 August 2014. Retrieved 28 July 2014.
"Portland State Multicultural Topics in Communications Sciences & Disorders | Italian". www.pdx.edu. Archived from the original on 6 February 2017. Retrieved 5 February 2017.
In Italy, almost all the other languages spoken as the vernacular—other than standard Italian and some languages spoken among immigrant communities—are often called "Italian dialects", a label that can be very misleading if it is understood to mean "dialects of Italian". The Romance dialects of Italy are local evolutions of spoken Latin that pre-date the establishment of Italian, and as such are sister languages to the Tuscan that was the historical source of Italian. They can be quite different from Italian and from each other, with some belonging to different linguistic branches of Romance. The only exceptions to this are twelve groups considered "historical language minorities", which are officially recognized as distinct minority languages by the law. On the other hand, Corsican (a language spoken on the French island of Corsica) is closely related to medieval Tuscan, from which Standard Italian derives and evolved.
^ Marc-Christian Riebe, Retail Market Study 2015, p. 36. "the largest city in Ticino, and the largest Italian-speaking city outside of Italy."
""Un nizzardo su quattro prese la via dell'esilio" in seguito all'unità d'Italia, dice lo scrittore Casalino Pierluigi" (in Italian). 28 August 2017. Retrieved 14 May 2021.
^ Canepari, Luciano (January 1999). Il MªPI – Manuale di pronuncia italiana (second ed.). Bologna: Zanichelli. ISBN 978-88-08-24624-0.
The language that came to be thought of as Italian developed in central Tuscany and was first formalized in the early 14th century through the works of Tuscan writer Dante Alighieri, written in his native Florentine. Dante's epic poems, known collectively as the Commediacode: ita promoted to code: it , to which another Tuscan poet Giovanni Boccaccio later affixed the title Divinacode: ita promoted to code: it , were read throughout the peninsula and his written dialect became the "canonical standard" that all educated Italians could understand. Dante is still credited with standardizing the Italian language. In addition to the widespread exposure gained through literature, the Florentine dialect also gained prestige due to the political and cultural significance of Florence at the time and the fact that it was linguistically an intermediate between the northern and the southern Italian dialects.[16]: 22  Thus the dialect of Florence became the basis for what would become the official language of Italy.
Italian is also spoken by large immigrant and expatriate communities in the Americas and Australia.[1] Although over 17 million Americans are of Italian descent, only a little over one million people in the United States speak Italian at home.[56] Nevertheless, an Italian language media market does exist in the country.[57] In Canada, Italian is the second most spoken non-official language when varieties of Chinese are not grouped together, with 375,645 claiming Italian as their mother tongue in 2016.[58]
"Il giornale italo-brasiliano (Fanfulla)" (in Italian). Retrieved 6 June 2022.
Andreose, Alvise; Renzi, Lorenzo (2013), "Geography and distribution of the Romance Languages in Europe",in Maiden, Martin; Smith, John Charles; Ledgeway, Adam (eds.), The Cambridge History of the Romance Languages, vol. 2, Contexts, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 302–308
"Albanian government makes Italian an obligatory language in professional schools". balkaneu.com. February 2014. Archived from the original on 9 August 2018. Retrieved 8 November 2018.
Lüdi, Georges; Werlen, Iwar (April 2005). "Recensement Fédéral de la Population 2000 — Le Paysage Linguistique en Suisse" (PDF) (in French, German, and Italian). Neuchâtel: Office fédéral de la statistique. Archived from the original (PDF) on 29 November 2007. Retrieved 5 January 2006.
"(...) in a large number of Italian accents, there is considerable friction involved in the pronunciation of [ʎ], creating a voiced palatal lateral fricative (for which there is no established IPA symbol)" Ashby (2011:64).
See Koutna et al. (1990: 294): "In the late forties and in the fifties some new proposals for classification of the Romance languages appeared. A statistical method attempting to evaluate the evidence quantitatively was developed in order to provide not only a classification but at the same time a measure of the divergence among the languages. The earliest attempt was made in 1949 by Mario Pei (1901–1978), who measured the divergence of seven modern Romance languages from Classical Latin, taking as his criterion the evolution of stressed vowels. Pei's results do not show the degree of contemporary divergence among the languages from each other but only the divergence of each one from Classical Latin. The closest language turned out to be Sardinian with 8% of change. Then followed Italian — 12%; Spanish — 20%; Romanian — 23,5%; Provençal — 25%; Portuguese — 31%; French — 44%."
Italian loanwords continue to be used in most languages in matters of art and music (especially classical music including opera), in the design and fashion industries, in some sports like football[69] and especially in culinary terms.
The letters ⟨c⟩ and ⟨g⟩ vary in pronunciation between plosives and affricates depending on following vowels. The letter ⟨c⟩ symbolizes /k/ when word-final and before the back vowels ⟨a, o, u⟩. It symbolizes /tʃ/ as in chair before the front vowels ⟨e, i⟩. The letter ⟨g⟩ symbolizes /ɡ/ when word-final and before the back vowels ⟨a, o, u⟩. It symbolizes /dʒ/ as in gem before the front vowels ⟨e, i⟩. Other Romance languages and, to an extent, English have similar variations for ⟨c, g⟩. Compare hard and soft C, hard and soft G. (See also palatalization.)
Dittmar, Jeremiah (2011). "Information Technology and Economic Change: The Impact of the Printing Press". The Quarterly Journal of Economics. 126 (3): 1133–1172. doi:10.1093/qje/qjr035. S2CID 11701054.
Hall, Robert A. Jr. (1944). "Italian phonemes and orthography". Italica. American Association of Teachers of Italian. 21 (2): 72–82. doi:10.2307/475860. JSTOR 475860.
In contrast to the Gallo-Italic linguistic panorama of Northern Italy, the Italo-Dalmatian, Neapolitan and its related dialects were largely unaffected by the Franco-Occitan influences introduced to Italy mainly by bards from France during the Middle Ages, but after the Norman conquest of southern Italy, Sicily became the first Italian land to adopt Occitan lyric moods (and words) in poetry. Even in the case of Northern Italian languages, however, scholars are careful not to overstate the effects of outsiders on the natural indigenous developments of the languages.
^ "Lingue di Minoranza e Scuola: Carta Generale". Minoranze-linguistiche-scuola.it. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 8 October 2017.
^ See Koutna et al. (1990: 294): "In the late forties and in the fifties some new proposals for classification of the Romance languages appeared. A statistical method attempting to evaluate the evidence quantitatively was developed in order to provide not only a classification but at the same time a measure of the divergence among the languages. The earliest attempt was made in 1949 by Mario Pei (1901–1978), who measured the divergence of seven modern Romance languages from Classical Latin, taking as his criterion the evolution of stressed vowels. Pei's results do not show the degree of contemporary divergence among the languages from each other but only the divergence of each one from Classical Latin. The closest language turned out to be Sardinian with 8% of change. Then followed Italian — 12%; Spanish — 20%; Romanian — 23,5%; Provençal — 25%; Portuguese — 31%; French — 44%."
UnificationRevolutions of 1820Revolutions of 1830Revolutions of 1848Sicilian revolution of 1848First War of IndependenceCrimean WarSecond War of IndependenceExpedition of the ThousandThird War of IndependenceCapture of Rome
^ "Data tables, 2016 Census". Statistics Canada. 2 August 2017. Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 26 October 2017.
Recognized as a minority language by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.[5]
A fourth faction claimed that the best Italian was the one that the papal court adopted, which was a mixture of the Tuscan and Roman dialects.[26] Eventually, Bembo's ideas prevailed, and the foundation of the Accademia della Cruscacode: ita promoted to code: itin Florence (1582–1583), the official legislative body of the Italian language, led to the publication of Agnolo Monosini's Latin tome Floris italicae linguae libri novem in 1604 followed by the first Italian dictionary in 1612.
The conservative nature of Italian phonology is partly explained by its origin. Italian stems from a literary language that is derived from the 13th-century speech of the city of Florence in the region of Tuscany, and has changed little in the last 700 years or so. Furthermore, the Tuscan dialect is the most conservative of all Italian dialects, radically different from the Gallo-Italian languages less than 160 kilometres (100 mi) to the north (across the La Spezia–Rimini Line).
Italian is the main language of the valleys of Calanca, Mesolcina, Bregaglia and val Poschiavo. In the village of Maloja, it is spoken by about half the population. It is also spoken by a minority in the village of Bivio.
"Los segundos idiomas más hablados de Sudamérica | AméricaEconomía – El sitio de los negocios globales de América Latina"
^ This faction was headed by Vincenzo Calmeta, Alessandro Tassoni, according to whom “the idiom of the Roman court was as good as the Florentine one, and better understood by all” (G. Rossi, ed. (1930). La secchia rapita, L’oceano e le rime. Bari. p. 235) and Francesco Sforza Pallavicino. See: Bellini, Eraldo (2022). "Language and Idiom in Sforza Pallavicino's Trattato dello stile e del dialogo". Sforza Pallavicino: A Jesuit Life in Baroque Rome. Brill Publishers: 126–172. doi:10.1163/9789004517240_008. ISBN 978-90-04-51724-0.
Between two vowels, or between a vowel and an approximant (/j, w/) or a liquid (/l, r/), consonants can be both singleton or geminated. Geminated consonants shorten the preceding vowel (or block phonetic lengthening) and the first geminated element is unreleased. For example, compare /fato/ [ˈfaːto] ('fate') with /fatto/ [ˈfatto] ('fact').[71] However, /ɲ/, /ʃ/, /ʎ/, /dz/, /ts/ are always geminated intervocalically.[72] Similarly, nasals, liquids, and sibilants are pronounced slightly longer in medial consonant clusters.[73]
Italian was also introduced to Somalia through colonialism and was the sole official language of administration and education during the colonial period but fell out of use after government, educational and economic infrastructure were destroyed in the Somali Civil War.
"Europeans and their Languages" (PDF). European Commission: Directorate General for Education and Culture and Directorate General Press and Communication. February 2006. Archived (PDF) from the original on 3 August 2008. Retrieved 28 June 2013.
Zonova, Tatiana. "The Italian language: soft power or dolce potere?." Rivista di Studi Politici Internazionali (2013): 227–231.
Serotonin is a major neurotransmitter in the nervous system and contributes to formation of new neurons (neurogenesis), formation of new connections between neurons (synaptogenesis), remodeling of synapses, and survival and migration of neurons, processes that are necessary for a developing brain and some also necessary for learning in the adult brain. 45% of ASD individuals have been found to have increased blood serotonin levels.[117] It has been hypothesized that increased activity of serotonin in the developing brain may facilitate the onset of ASD, with an association found in six out of eight studies between the use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) by the pregnant mother and the development of ASD in the child exposed to SSRI in the antenatal environment. The study could not definitively conclude SSRIs caused the increased risk for ASD due to the biases found in those studies, and the authors called for more definitive, better conducted studies.[176] Confounding by indication has since then been shown to be likely.[177] However, it is also hypothesized that SSRIs may help reduce symptoms of ASD and even positively affect brain development in some ASD patients.[117]
"Welcome to the Autistic Community". Autistic Self Advocacy Network. Retrieved 21 February 2023.
Bertoglio K, Hendren RL (March 2009). "New developments in autism". The Psychiatric Clinics of North America. 32 (1): 1–14. doi:10.1016/j.psc.2008.10.004. PMID 19248913.
There are several factors that make autism spectrum disorder difficult to diagnose. First off, there are no standardized imaging, molecular or genetic tests that can be used to diagnose ASD.[180] Additionally, there is a lot of variety in how ASD affects individuals. The behavioral manifestations of ASD depend on one's developmental stage, age of presentation, current support, and individual variability.[181][179] Lastly, there are multiple conditions that may present similarly to autism spectrum disorder, including intellectual disability, hearing impairment, a specific language impairment[182] such as Landau–Kleffner syndrome.[183] ADHD, anxiety disorder, and psychotic disorders.[184] Furthermore, the presence of autism can make it harder to diagnose coexisting psychiatric disorders such as depression.[185]
Intensive, sustained special education or remedial education programs and behavior therapy early in life may help children acquire self-care, social, and job skills. Available approaches include applied behavior analysis, developmental models, structured teaching, speech and language therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy,[255] social skills therapy, and occupational therapy.[256] Among these approaches, interventions either treat autistic features comprehensively, or focus treatment on a specific area of deficit.[251] Generally, when educating those with autism, specific tactics may be used to effectively relay information to these individuals. Using as much social interaction as possible is key in targeting the inhibition autistic individuals experience concerning person-to-person contact. Additionally, research has shown that employing semantic groupings, which involves assigning words to typical conceptual categories, can be beneficial in fostering learning.[257]
^ Pellicano E, den Houting J (April 2022). "Annual Research Review: Shifting from 'normal science' to neurodiversity in autism science". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 63 (4): 381–396. doi:10.1111/jcpp.13534. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMC 9298391. PMID 34730840. S2CID 241118562.
"Mitochondrial dysfunction in autism spectrum disorders: a systematic review and meta-analysis"
^ Keating CT, Cook JL (July 2020). "Facial expression production and recognition in autism spectrum disorders: a shifting landscape". Child Adolesc Psychiatr Clin N Am (Review). 29 (3): 557–571. doi:10.1016/j.chc.2020.02.006. PMID 32471602.
Regression may occur in a variety of domains, including communication, social, cognitive, and self-help skills; however, the most common regression is loss of language.[311][306][307] Some children lose social development instead of language; some lose both.[310] Skill loss may be quite rapid, or may be slow and preceded by a lengthy period of no skill progression; the loss may be accompanied by reduced social play or increased irritability.[305] The temporarily acquired skills typically amount to a few words of spoken language, and may include some rudimentary social perception.[310]
Martínez-Pedraza F, Carter AS (July 2009). "Autism spectrum disorders in young children". Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics of North America. 18 (3): 645–63. doi:10.1016/j.chc.2009.02.002. PMC 3166636. PMID 19486843.
Montes G, Halterman JS (July 2008). "Child care problems and employment among families with preschool-aged children with autism in the United States". Pediatrics. 122 (1): e202–e208. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-3037. PMID 18595965. S2CID 22686553. Archived from the original on 6 December 2009.
Rødgaard EM, Jensen K, Vergnes JN, Soulières I, Mottron L (August 2019). "Temporal Changes in Effect Sizes of Studies Comparing Individuals With and Without Autism: A Meta-analysis". JAMA Psychiatry. 76 (11): 1124–1132. doi:10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2019.1956. PMC 6704749. PMID 31433441.
Usually, the apparent onset of regressive autism can be surprising and distressing to parents, who often initially suspect severe hearing loss.[309] Attribution of regression to environmental stress factors may result in a delay in diagnosis.[66]
^ Al-Beltagi M (May 2021). "Autism medical comorbidities". World Journal of Clinical Pediatrics. 10 (3): 15–28. doi:10.5409/wjcp.v10.i3.15. PMC 8085719. PMID 33972922. Gastrointestinal (GI) disorders are significantly more common in children with ASD; they occur in 46% to 84% of them.
^ Ameis SH, Kassee C, Corbett-Dick P, Cole L, Dadhwal S, Lai MC,et al. (November 2018). "Systematic review and guide to management of core and psychiatric symptoms in youth with autism". Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica. 138 (5): 379–400. doi:10.1111/acps.12918. PMID 29904907. S2CID 49209337.
As of 2018[update], understanding of genetic risk factors had shifted from a focus on a few alleles to an understanding that genetic involvement in ASD is probably diffuse, depending on a large number of variants, some of which are common and have a small effect, and some of which are rare and have a large effect. The most common gene disrupted with large effect rare variants appeared to be CHD8, but less than 0.5% of autistic people have such a mutation. The gene CHD8 encodes the protein chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 8, which is a chromatin regulator enzyme that is essential during fetal development, CHD8 is an ATP dependent enzyme.[108][109][110] The protein contains an Snf2 helicase domain that is responsible for the hydrolysis of ATP to ADP.[110] CHD8 encodes for a DNA helicase that function as a transcription repressor by remodeling chromatin structure by altering the position of nucleosomes. CHD8 negatively regulates Wnt signaling. Wnt signaling is important in the vertebrate early development and morphogenesis. It is believed that CHD8 also recruits the linker histone H1 and causes the repression of β-catenin and p53 target genes.[108] The importance of CHD8 can be observed in studies where CHD8-knockout mice died after 5.5 embryonic days because of widespread p53 induced apoptosis. Some studies have determined the role of CHD8 in autism spectrum disorder (ASD). CHD8 expression significantly increases during human mid-fetal development.[108] The chromatin remodeling activity and its interaction with transcriptional regulators have shown to play an important role in ASD aetiology.[109] The developing mammalian brain has a conserved CHD8 target regions that are associated with ASD risk genes.[111] The knockdown of CHD8 in human neural stem cells results in dysregulation of ASD risk genes that are targeted by CHD8.[112] Recently CD8 has been associated to the regulation of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs),[113] and the regulation of X chromosome inactivation (XCI) initiation, via regulation of Xist long non-coding RNA,[ambiguous] the master regulator of XCI,[ambiguous] though competitive binding to Xist regulatory regions.[114]
While rates of ASD are consistent across cultures, they vary greatly by gender, with boys diagnosed far more frequently than girls: 1 in 70 boys, but only 1 in 315 girls at eight years of age.[331] Girls, however, are more likely to have associated cognitive impairment, suggesting that less severe forms of ASD are likely being missed in girls and women.[332] Prevalence differences may be a result of gender differences in expression of clinical symptoms, with women and girls with autism showing less atypical behaviors and, therefore, less likely to receive an ASD diagnosis.[333]
Wing, Lorna; Gould, Judith (1 March 1979). "Severe impairments of social interaction and associated abnormalities in children: Epidemiology and classification". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 9 (1): 11–29. doi:10.1007/BF01531288. ISSN 1573-3432. PMID 155684. S2CID 29417925.
Wasilewska J, Klukowski M (2015). "Gastrointestinal symptoms and autism spectrum disorder: links and risks - a possible new overlap syndrome". Pediatric Health, Medicine and Therapeutics (Review). 6: 153–166. doi:10.2147/PHMT.S85717. PMC 5683266. PMID 29388597.
"Autism At Work". Autism At Work. Retrieved 5 January 2023.
^ Ozonoff S, Iosif AM (May 2019). "Changing conceptualizations of regression: What prospective studies reveal about the onset of autism spectrum disorder". Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews. 100: 296–304. doi:10.1016/j.neubiorev.2019.03.012. PMC 6451681. PMID 30885812.
^ Crespi BJ (30 June 2016). "Autism As a Disorder of High Intelligence". Frontiers in Neuroscience. 10: 300. doi:10.3389/fnins.2016.00300. PMC 4927579. PMID 27445671.
Pezzimenti, F.; Han, G. T.; Vasa, R. A.; Gotham, K. (2019). "Depression in Youth with Autism Spectrum Disorder". Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics of North America. 28 (3): 397–409. doi:10.1016/j.chc.2019.02.009. PMC 6512853. PMID 31076116.
Repetitive behaviors – Repetitive behaviors such as rocking, hand flapping, finger flicking, head banging, or repeating phrases or sounds.[55] These behaviors may occur constantly or only when the person gets stressed, anxious or upset. These behaviors are also known as stimming.
^ "Engaging people on the autism spectrum". Autism Spectrum Australia. 7 October 2013. Archived from the original on 19 March 2020.
^ Ballaban-Gil K, Tuchman R (2000). "Epilepsy and epileptiform EEG: association with autism and language disorders". Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews. 6 (4): 300–8. doi:10.1002/1098-2779(2000)6:43.0.CO;2-R. PMID 11107195.
Pathological demand avoidance can occur. People with this set of autistic symptoms are more likely to refuse to do what is asked or expected of them, even to activities they enjoy.
The preference that autistic children have for unconventional foods can lead to reduction in bone cortical thickness with this risk being greater in those on casein-free diets, as a consequence of the low intake of calcium and vitamin D; however, suboptimal bone development in ASD has also been associated with lack of exercise and gastrointestinal disorders.[283] In 2005, botched chelation therapy killed a five-year-old child with autism.[284][285] Chelation is not recommended for autistic people since the associated risks outweigh any potential benefits.[286] Another alternative medicine practice with no evidence is CEASE therapy, a pseudoscientific mixture of homeopathy, supplements, and 'vaccine detoxing'.[287]
^ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (29 June 2020). "Diagnostic Criteria: Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 21 February 2021.
Cotney J, Muhle RA, Sanders SJ, Liu L, Willsey AJ, Niu W,et al. (March 2015). "The autism-associated chromatin modifier CHD8 regulates other autism risk genes during human neurodevelopment". Nature Communications. 6 (1): 6404. Bibcode:2015NatCo...6.6404C. doi:10.1038/ncomms7404. PMC 4355952. PMID 25752243.
The Japanese practice is to screen all children for ASD at 18 and 24 months, using autism-specific formal screening tests. In contrast, in the UK, children whose families or doctors recognize possible signs of autism are screened. It is not known which approach is more effective.[97][clarification needed] The UK National Screening Committee does not recommend universal ASD screening in young children. Their main concerns includes higher chances of misdiagnosis at younger ages and lack of evidence of effectiveness of early interventions.[203] There is no consensus between professional and expert bodies in the US on screening for autism in children younger than 3 years.[205]
^ Baron-Cohen S (2002). "Is Asperger syndrome necessarily viewed as a disability?". Focus Autism Other Dev Disabl. 17 (3): 186–91. doi:10.1177/10883576020170030801. S2CID 145629311. A preliminary, freely readable draft, with slightly different wording in the quoted text, is in: Baron-Cohen S (2002). "Is Asperger's syndrome necessarily a disability?" (PDF). Cambridge: Autism Research Centre. Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 December 2008. Retrieved 2 December 2008.
Lai MC, Szatmari P (March 2020). "Sex and gender impacts on the behavioural presentation and recognition of autism". Current Opinion in Psychiatry. 33 (2): 117–123. doi:10.1097/YCO.0000000000000575. PMID 31815760. S2CID 209164138.
^ Karst JS, Van Hecke AV (September 2012). "Parent and family impact of autism spectrum disorders: a review and proposed model for intervention evaluation". Clinical Child and Family Psychology Review. 15 (3): 247–77. doi:10.1007/s10567-012-0119-6. PMID 22869324. S2CID 19170894.
^ Bernick M (12 January 2021). "The State Of Autism Employment In 2021". Forbes. Retrieved 11 February 2022.
^ Constantino JN, Charman T (March 2016). "Diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder: reconciling the syndrome, its diverse origins, and variation in expression" (PDF). The Lancet. Neurology. 15 (3): 279–91. doi:10.1016/s1474-4422(15)00151-9. PMID 26497771. S2CID 206162618.
^ Hill AP (2014). "Epidemiology of autism spectrum disorders".In Volkmar FR (ed.). Handbook of Autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorders. Diagnosis, Development, and Brain Mechanisms. Vol. 1. New York: Wiley. pp. 57–96. doi:10.1002/9781118911389. ISBN 9781118911389.
^ Collins, Paul (6 February 2009). "Must-Geek TV: Is the world ready for an Asperger's sitcom?". Slate. www.slate.com. Archived from the original on 10 February 2009. Retrieved 14 April 2009.
Ekleberry SC (2008). "Cluster A - Schizoid Personality Disorder and Substance Use Disorders". Integrated Treatment for Co-Occurring Disorders: Personality Disorders and Addiction. Routledge. pp. 31–32. ISBN 978-0789036933.
^ a b Gardener H, Spiegelman D, Buka SL (July 2009). "Prenatal risk factors for autism: comprehensive meta-analysis". The British Journal of Psychiatry. 195 (1): 7–14. doi:10.1192/bjp.bp.108.051672. PMC 3712619. PMID 19567888.
^ a b Millward C, Ferriter M, Calver S, Connell-Jones G (April 2008).Ferriter M (ed.). "Gluten- and casein-free diets for autistic spectrum disorder". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (2): CD003498. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD003498.pub3. PMC 4164915. PMID 18425890. Knivsberg 2002 "monitoring of the compliance with diet was not carried out" ... "several reports of children 'sneaking food' from siblings or classmates"
The number of students identified and served as eligible for autism services in the United States has increased from 5,413 children in 1991–1992 to 370,011 children in the 2010–2011 academic school year.[315] The United States Department of Health and Human Services reported approximately 1 in 68 children are diagnosed with ASD at age 8 although onset is typically between ages 2 and 4.[315]
"Must-Geek TV: Is the world ready for an Asperger's sitcom?"
As of 2019[update], psychologists wait until a child showed initial evidence of ASD tendencies, then administer various psychological assessment tools to assess for ASD.[198] Among these measurements, the Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R) and the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS) are considered the "gold standards" for assessing autistic children.[199][200] The ADI-R is a semi-structured parent interview that probes for symptoms of autism by evaluating a child's current behavior and developmental history. The ADOS is a semi-structured interactive evaluation of ASD symptoms that is used to measure social and communication abilities by eliciting several opportunities for spontaneous behaviors (e.g., eye contact) in standardized context. Various other questionnaires (e.g., The Childhood Autism Rating Scale, Autism Treatment Evaluation Checklist) and tests of cognitive functioning (e.g., The Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test) are typically included in an ASD assessment battery. The diagnostic interview for social and communication disorders (DISCO) may also be used.[201]
Sarrett J (April 2016). "Biocertification and Neurodiversity the Role and Implications of Self-Diagnosis in Autistic Communities". www.researchgate.net. Retrieved 6 March 2022.
^ "Mind the gap: What is missing in the autism research agenda?". University of Birmingham. Retrieved 3 February 2023.
^ Lyall K, Schmidt RJ, Hertz-Picciotto I (April 2014). "Maternal lifestyle and environmental risk factors for autism spectrum disorders". International Journal of Epidemiology. 43 (2): 443–464. doi:10.1093/ije/dyt282. PMC 3997376. PMID 24518932.
The DSM-IV TR (2000) contained an almost complete rewrite of the definition of Asperger syndrome. Notably, it now no longer included speech and language difficulties.[370]
US Preventive Services Task Force does not recommend universal screen of young children for autism due to poor evidence of benefits of this screening when parents and clinicians have no concerns about ASD. The major concern is a false-positive diagnosis that would burden a family with very time-consuming and financially demanding treatment interventions when it is not truly required. The Task Force also did not find any robust studies showing effectiveness of behavioral therapies in reducing ASD symptom severity.[203]
"Ongoing human evolution could explain recent rise in certain disorders"
Spence SJ, Schneider MT (June 2009). "The role of epilepsy and epileptiform EEGs in autism spectrum disorders". Pediatric Research. 65 (6): 599–606. doi:10.1203/PDR.0b013e31819e7168. PMC 2692092. PMID 19454962.
DeStefano F, Shimabukuro TT (September 2019). "The MMR Vaccine and Autism". Annual Review of Virology. 6 (1): 585–600. doi:10.1146/annurev-virology-092818-015515. PMC 6768751. PMID 30986133.
^ Harris J (February 2018). "Leo Kanner and autism: a 75-year perspective". International Review of Psychiatry. 30 (1): 3–17. doi:10.1080/09540261.2018.1455646. PMID 29667863. S2CID 4978549.
"Preschool language variation, growth, and predictors in children on the autism spectrum"
^ Devlin H (14 September 2018). "Thousands of autistic girls and women 'going undiagnosed' due to gender bias". The Guardian.
O'Brien G, Pearson J (June 2004). "Autism and learning disability". Autism. 8 (2): 125–40. doi:10.1177/1362361304042718. PMID 15165430. S2CID 17372893.
"Neurodevelopment: The Impact of Nutrition and Inflammation During Preconception and Pregnancy in Low-Resource Settings"
While serving as an assistant professor of psychology at Indiana University School of Medicine from 1957 to 1962, Charles Ferster employed errorless learning to instruct young autistic children how to speak.[363] This was an early example of what would later be known as applied behaviour analysis.
^ Ganz ML (April 2007). "The lifetime distribution of the incremental societal costs of autism". Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine. 161 (4): 343–349. doi:10.1001/archpedi.161.4.343. PMID 17404130.
Praslova, Ludmila N. (2022). To build a healthy workplace, you need a toxic culture alarm Fast Company, 14 March 2022.
There continues to be a debate over the differential outcomes based on these two developmental courses. Some studies suggest that regression is associated with poorer outcomes and others report no differences between those with early gradual onset and those who experience a regression period.[223] While there is conflicting evidence surrounding language outcomes in autism, some studies have shown that cognitive and language abilities at age .mw-parser-output .frac{white-space:nowrap}.mw-parser-output .frac .num,.mw-parser-output .frac .den{font-size:80%;line-height:0;vertical-align:super}.mw-parser-output .frac .den{vertical-align:sub}.mw-parser-output .sr-only{border:0;clip:rect(0,0,0,0);height:1px;margin:-1px;overflow:hidden;padding:0;position:absolute;width:1px}2+1⁄2 may help predict language proficiency and production after age 5.[313] Overall, the literature stresses the importance of early intervention in achieving positive longitudinal outcomes.[314]
^ Holder Jr JL, Hamdan FF, Michaud JL (2019). "SYNGAP1-Related Intellectual Disability". Gene Reviews (Review). PMID 30789692.
LC Catalog - No Connections Available. catalog.loc.gov. The Century psychology series. Appleton-Century-Crofts. 1964. Retrieved 6 January 2023.
Poland GA, Jacobson RM (January 2011). "The age-old struggle against the antivaccinationists". The New England Journal of Medicine. 364 (2): 97–99. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1010594. PMID 21226573.
"Changing conceptualizations of regression: What prospective studies reveal about the onset of autism spectrum disorder"
Praslova, Ludmila N. (2022). To build a healthy workplace, you need a toxic culture alarm
All these genetic variants contribute to the development of the autistic spectrum; however, it cannot be guaranteed that they are determinants for the development.[118]
Russell G, Stapley S, Newlove-Delgado T, Salmon A, White R, Warren F,et al. (August 2021). "Time trends in autism diagnosis over 20 years: a UK population-based cohort study". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 63 (6): 674–682. doi:10.1111/jcpp.13505. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMID 34414570. S2CID 237242123. The figure starkly illustrates an overall 787% increase in recorded incidence of autism diagnosis over 20 years.
^ Solomon, Andrew (25 May 2008). "The autism rights movement". New York. Archived from the original on 27 May 2008. Retrieved 27 May 2008.
Within the regressive autism developmental course, there are two patterns. The first pattern is when developmental losses occur in the first 15 months to 3 years.[306][307] The second pattern, childhood disintegrative disorder (a diagnosis now included under ASD), is characterized by regression after normal development in the first 3 to 4, or even up to 9 years of life.[308]
The autism spectrum, often referred to as just autism, autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or sometimes autism spectrum condition (ASC), identifies a loosely defined cluster of neurodevelopmental traits characterized by challenges in social interaction, verbal and nonverbal communication, and often repetitive behaviors and restricted interests. Other common features include unusual responses to sensory stimuli and a preference for sameness or unusual adherence to routines.
"Social Matters: Improving social skills interventions for Ontarians with Autism Spectrum Disorder" (PDF). Autism Ontario. Retrieved 2 February 2023.
Mozes A (26 November 2018). "Report: Autism Rate Rises to 1 in 40 Children". WebMD. Retrieved 26 September 2019.
"ICD vs. DSM". APA Monitor. Vol. 40, no. 9. American Psychological Association. 2009. p. 63.
^ McPartland J, Klin A (October 2006). "Asperger's syndrome". Adolescent Medicine Clinics. 17 (3): 771–88, abstract xiii. doi:10.1016/j.admecli.2006.06.010 (inactive 31 December 2022). PMID 17030291.{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of December 2022 (link)
^ Franco, Janelle (2014). "Puzzle Piece Project and Autism Awareness Month." Autism Speaks.
Opar A (6 May 2019). "A medical condition or just a difference? The question roils autism community". The Washington Post. spectrumnews.org. ISSN 0190-8286. Archived from the original on 7 May 2019. Retrieved 23 April 2022.
Piggot J, Shirinyan D, Shemmassian S, Vazirian S, Alarcón M (November 2009). "Neural systems approaches to the neurogenetics of autism spectrum disorders". Neuroscience. 164 (1): 247–256. doi:10.1016/j.neuroscience.2009.05.054. PMID 19482063. S2CID 207246176.
"Interventions to address health outcomes among autistic adults: A systematic review"
^ Hollander E, Hagerman RJ, Fein D (30 April 2018). Autism spectrum disorders (First ed.). Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Association Publishing. ISBN 978-1-61537-192-1. OCLC 1022084798.
^ Ellis Weismer S, Kover ST (December 2015). "Preschool language variation, growth, and predictors in children on the autism spectrum". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 56 (12): 1327–37. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12406. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMC 4565784. PMID 25753577.
a history of neurodevelopmental conditions (including learning disabilities and ADHD) or mental health conditions.[43][44]
A multitude of researched alternative therapies have also been implemented. Many have resulted in harm to autistic people.[256] A 2020 systematic review on adults with autism has provided emerging evidence for decreasing stress, anxiety, ruminating thoughts, anger, and aggression through mindfulness-based interventions for improving mental health.[274]
^ Schaefer GB, Mendelsohn NJ (January 2008). "Genetics evaluation for the etiologic diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders". Genetics in Medicine. 10 (1): 4–12. doi:10.1097/GIM.0b013e31815efdd7. PMID 18197051. S2CID 4468548.
^ a b c d e Smith T, Iadarola S (2015). "Evidence Base Update for Autism Spectrum Disorder". Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 44 (6): 897–922. doi:10.1080/15374416.2015.1077448. ISSN 1537-4416. PMID 26430947.
"Validation of the Infant-Toddler Checklist as a broadband screener for autism spectrum disorders from 9 to 24 months of age"
Lord C, Elsabbagh M, Baird G, Veenstra-Vanderweele J (August 2018). "Autism spectrum disorder". Lancet. 392 (10146): 508–520. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(18)31129-2. PMC 7398158. PMID 30078460. S2CID 51922565.
"Complementary and alternative medicine treatments for children with autism spectrum disorders"
"Pharmacological and dietary-supplement treatments for autism spectrum disorder: a systematic review and network meta-analysis"
Hussain A, Ali S, Ahmed M, Hussain S (July 2018). "The Anti-vaccination Movement: A Regression in Modern Medicine". Cureus. 10 (7): e2919. doi:10.7759/cureus.2919. PMC 6122668. PMID 30186724.
^ Wetherby AM, Brosnan-Maddox S, Peace V, Newton L (September 2008). "Validation of the Infant-Toddler Checklist as a broadband screener for autism spectrum disorders from 9 to 24 months of age". Autism. 12 (5): 487–511. doi:10.1177/1362361308094501. PMC 2663025. PMID 18805944.
Solomon, Debra (2018). The History of the Autism Puzzle Piece Ribbon. Spectrum Strategies.
^ Kuhn R (September 2004). "Eugen Bleuler's concepts of psychopathology". History of Psychiatry. 15 (59 Pt 3): 361–366. doi:10.1177/0957154X04044603. PMID 15386868. S2CID 5317716. The quote is a translation of Bleuler's 1910 original.
^ a b Rossignol DA, Frye RE (March 2012). "Mitochondrial dysfunction in autism spectrum disorders: a systematic review and meta-analysis". Molecular Psychiatry. 17 (3): 290–314. doi:10.1038/mp.2010.136. PMC 3285768. PMID 21263444.
"Gender Dysphoria and Autism Spectrum Disorder: A Systematic Review of the Literature"
^ Jensen, M.; Smolen, C.; Girirajan, S. (2020). "Gene discoveries in autism are biased towards comorbidity with intellectual disability". Journal of Medical Genetics. 57 (9): 647–652. doi:10.1136/jmedgenet-2019-106476. PMC 7483239. PMID 32152248.
Before the DSM-5 (2013) and ICD-11 (2022) diagnostic manuals were adopted, what is now called ASD was found under the diagnostic category pervasive developmental disorder. The previous system relied on a set of closely related and overlapping diagnoses such as Asperger syndrome and Kanner syndrome. This created unclear boundaries between the terms, so for the DSM-5 and ICD-11, a spectrum approach was taken. The new system is also more restrictive, meaning fewer people now qualify for diagnosis.[20]
The DSM-III-R (1987) merged "infantile autism” and "childhood onset pervasive developmental disorder" as the new “autistic disorder”. The manual provided a checklist for this condition.[14] It broadened the range of neurotypes that were considered "autistic" by clinicians.[379] The DSM's third PDD category was renamed "pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified" (PDD-NOS).[374]
Reser JE (May 2011). "Conceptualizing the autism spectrum in terms of natural selection and behavioral ecology: the solitary forager hypothesis". Evolutionary Psychology. 9 (2): 207–238. doi:10.1177/147470491100900209. PMID 22947969. S2CID 25378900.
Kanner L (July 1949). "Problems of nosology and psychodynamics of early infantile autism". The American Journal of Orthopsychiatry. 19 (3): 416–26. doi:10.1111/j.1939-0025.1949.tb05441.x. PMID 18146742.
"Autism case training part 1: A closer look – key developmental milestones"
CDC (18 August 2016). "Part II: A Closer Look". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 15 September 2022.
^ Harrop C (August 2015). "Evidence-based, parent-mediated interventions for young children with autism spectrum disorder: The case of restricted and repetitive behaviors". Autism. 19 (6): 662–72. doi:10.1177/1362361314545685. PMID 25186943. S2CID 32326472.
Flaherty DK (October 2011). "The vaccine-autism connection: a public health crisis caused by unethical medical practices and fraudulent science". The Annals of Pharmacotherapy. 45 (10): 1302–1304. doi:10.1345/aph.1Q318. PMID 21917556. S2CID 39479569.
Landa RJ (March 2008). "Diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders in the first 3 years of life". Nature Clinical Practice. Neurology. 4 (3): 138–147. doi:10.1038/ncpneuro0731. PMID 18253102.
^ Glock, Melanie (13 March 2014). "Bernard Rimland's "Infantile Autism": The book that changed autism". Autism Research Institute. Retrieved 6 January 2023.
"The autism-associated gene chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 8 (CHD8) regulates noncoding RNAs and autism-related genes"
Hughes JE, Ward J, Gruffydd E, Baron-Cohen S, Smith P, Allison C, Simner J (October 2018). "Savant syndrome has a distinct psychological profile in autism". Molecular Autism. 9: 53. doi:10.1186/s13229-018-0237-1. PMC 6186137. PMID 30344992.
^ Dragioti E, Solmi M, Favaro A, Fusar-Poli P, Dazzan P, Thompson T,et al. (October 2019). "Association of Antidepressant Use With Adverse Health Outcomes: A Systematic Umbrella Review". JAMA Psychiatry. 76 (12): 1241–1255. doi:10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2019.2859. PMC 6777224. PMID 31577342.
"Association of Antidepressant Use With Adverse Health Outcomes: A Systematic Umbrella Review"
Some autistic people, as well as a growing number of researchers,[418] have advocated a shift in attitudes toward the view that autism spectrum disorder is a difference, rather than a disease that must be treated or cured.[419][420] Critics have bemoaned the entrenchment of some of these groups' opinions.[421][422][423][424]
^ Spence SJ, Schneider MT (June 2009). "The role of epilepsy and epileptiform EEGs in autism spectrum disorders". Pediatric Research. 65 (6): 599–606. doi:10.1203/PDR.0b013e31819e7168. PMC 2692092. PMID 19454962.
^ Sarrett J (April 2016). "Biocertification and Neurodiversity the Role and Implications of Self-Diagnosis in Autistic Communities". www.researchgate.net. Retrieved 6 March 2022.
Devlin H (14 September 2018). "Thousands of autistic girls and women 'going undiagnosed' due to gender bias". The Guardian.
Crespi BJ, Thiselton DL (October 2011). "Comparative immunogenetics of autism and schizophrenia". Genes, Brain and Behavior. 10 (7): 689–701. doi:10.1111/j.1601-183X.2011.00710.x. PMID 21649858. S2CID 851655.
"Deaths resulting from hypocalcemia after administration of edetate disodium: 2003-2005"
^ Haas RH, Parikh S, Falk MJ, Saneto RP, Wolf NI, Darin N, Cohen BH (December 2007). "Mitochondrial disease: a practical approach for primary care physicians". Pediatrics. 120 (6): 1326–1333. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-0391. PMID 18055683. S2CID 4939996.
There has been increasing attention to the development of evidence-based interventions for autistic young children. Three theoretical frameworks outlined for early childhood intervention include applied behavior analysis (ABA), the developmental social-pragmatic model (DSP) and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).[255][251] Although ABA therapy has a strong evidence base, particularly in regard to early intensive home-based therapy, ABA's effectiveness may be limited by diagnostic severity and IQ of the person affected by ASD.[258] The Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology has deemed two early childhood interventions as "well-established":[259] individual comprehensive ABA, and focused teacher-implemented ABA combined with DSP.[251]
"Association of childhood autism spectrum disorders and loss of family income"
^ a b "Section 2: Neurodevelopmental Disorders". Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders : DSM-5-TR (Print) (Fifth edition, text revision. ed.). Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Association Publishing. 2022. ISBN 978-0-89042-575-6.
^ LC Catalog - No Connections Available. catalog.loc.gov. The Century psychology series. Appleton-Century-Crofts. 1964. Retrieved 6 January 2023.
Lawson W (2001). Understanding and Working With the Spectrum of Autism: An Insider's View. London UK, & Philadelphia PA: Jessica Kingsley Publishers. pp. 33. ISBN 978-1853029714.
^ Levy SE, Hyman SL (October 2008). "Complementary and alternative medicine treatments for children with autism spectrum disorders". Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics of North America (Review). 17 (4): 803–20, ix. doi:10.1016/j.chc.2008.06.004. PMC 2597185. PMID 18775371.
The discussion of autism has brought about much controversy. Without researchers being able to meet a consensus on the varying forms of condition, there was for a time a lack of research being conducted on the disorder, as was found in a study of autism in the UK.[406] Discussing the syndrome and its complexity frustrated researchers. Controversies have surrounded various claims regarding the etiology of autism.
Gross L (May 2009). "A broken trust: lessons from the vaccine--autism wars". PLOS Biology. 7 (5): e1000114. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1000114. PMC 2682483. PMID 19478850.
"Early Intervention for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder Under 3 Years of Age: Recommendations for Practice and Research"
The broader autism phenotype (BAP) describes individuals who may not have ASD but do have autistic traits, such as avoiding eye contact and stimming.[47]
9.6DSM-IV, autistic disorder, Asperger syndrome and other conditions (1994–2013)																								9.6.11994–1999																											9.6.22000–2004																											9.6.32005–2009
Screening tools include the Modified Checklist for Autism in Toddlers (M-CHAT), the Early Screening of Autistic Traits Questionnaire, and the First Year Inventory; initial data on M-CHAT and its predecessor, the Checklist for Autism in Toddlers (CHAT), on children aged 18–30 months suggests that it is best used in a clinical setting and that it has low sensitivity (many false-negatives) but good specificity (few false-positives).[190] It may be more accurate to precede these tests with a broadband screener that does not distinguish ASD from other developmental disorders.[206] Screening tools designed for one culture's norms for behaviors like eye contact may be inappropriate for a different culture.[207] Although genetic screening for autism is generally still impractical, it can be considered in some cases, such as children with neurological symptoms and dysmorphic features.[208]
^ "Autism Spectrum Disorder" (PDF). American Psychiatric Disorder. Retrieved 2 February 2023.
Mandy W, Lai MC (March 2016). "Annual Research Review: The role of the environment in the developmental psychopathology of autism spectrum condition". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 57 (3): 271–292. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12501. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMID 26782158.
"Fake and harmful autism 'treatments'". nhs.uk. 2 May 2019. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
Millward C, Ferriter M, Calver S, Connell-Jones G (April 2008).Ferriter M (ed.). "Gluten- and casein-free diets for autistic spectrum disorder". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (2): CD003498. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD003498.pub3. PMC 4164915. PMID 18425890. Knivsberg 2002 "monitoring of the compliance with diet was not carried out" ... "several reports of children 'sneaking food' from siblings or classmates"
Tsakanikos E, Underwood L, Kravariti E, Bouras N, McCarthy J (2011). "Gender differences in co-morbid psychopathology and clinical management in adults with autism spectrum disorders". Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders. 5 (2): 803–808. doi:10.1016/j.rasd.2010.09.009. ISSN 1750-9467.
^ Betancur C, Sakurai T, Buxbaum JD (July 2009). "The emerging role of synaptic cell-adhesion pathways in the pathogenesis of autism spectrum disorders" (PDF). Trends in Neurosciences. 32 (7): 402–412. doi:10.1016/j.tins.2009.04.003. PMID 19541375. S2CID 8644511.
^ a b Newschaffer CJ, Croen LA, Daniels J, Giarelli E, Grether JK, Levy SE,et al. (2007). "The epidemiology of autism spectrum disorders". Annual Review of Public Health. 28: 235–58. doi:10.1146/annurev.publhealth.28.021406.144007. PMID 17367287.
3Possible causes											Toggle Possible causes subsection																					3.1Biological subgroups																											3.2Genetics																											3.3Early life																								3.3.1Disproven vaccine hypothesis																														3.4Etiological hypotheses																											3.5Evolutionary hypotheses
National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (26 February 2015). "Signs & Symptoms: Autism Spectrum Disorder". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Archived from the original on 10 March 2015. (Also available in Spanish.)
There have been multiple conversations about the flag on Reddit. Take for example: Reddit (2019). "I tried creating an autism/neurodiversity flag. It's a work in progress."; Reddit (2022). "Autism pride flag goes hard." and Reddit (2022). "where did this flag even come from? first time i ever saw it was during r/place, now i see it everywhere."
^ Zeldovich, Lina (7 November 2018). "How history forgot the woman who defined autism". Spectrum | Autism Research News. Retrieved 5 January 2023.
Rommelse NN, Franke B, Geurts HM, Hartman CA, Buitelaar JK (March 2010). "Shared heritability of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and autism spectrum disorder". European Child & Adolescent Psychiatry. 19 (3): 281–95. doi:10.1007/s00787-010-0092-x. PMC 2839489. PMID 20148275.
Some gut proteins and microbial products can cross the blood–brain barrier and activate mast cells in the brain. Mast cells release pro-inflammatory factors and histamine which further increase blood–brain barrier permeability and help set up a cycle of chronic inflammation.[171]
delayed language skills (e.g. having a smaller vocabulary than peers or difficulty expressing themselves in words)
^ Weir E, Allison C, Baron-Cohen S (November 2021). "The sexual health, orientation, and activity of autistic adolescents and adults". Autism Research. 14 (11): 2342–2354. doi:10.17863/CAM.74771. PMID 34536071.
Autism spectrum disorder is characterised by persistent deficits in the ability to initiate and to sustain reciprocal social interaction and social communication, and by a range of restricted, repetitive, and inflexible patterns of behaviour, interests or activities that are clearly atypical or excessive for the individual's age and sociocultural context. The onset of the disorder occurs during the developmental period, typically in early childhood, but symptoms may not become fully manifest until later, when social demands exceed limited capacities. Deficits are sufficiently severe to cause impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning and are usually a pervasive feature of the individual's functioning observable in all settings, although they may vary according to social, educational, or other context. Individuals along the spectrum exhibit a full range of intellectual functioning and language abilities.
^ Harmon A (20 December 2004). "How about not 'curing' us, some autistics are pleading". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 11 May 2013.
^ Lomelin DE (2010). "An Examination of Autism Spectrum Disorders in Relation to Human Evolution and Life History Theory". Nebraska Anthropologist. 57.
Though much of the focus on early childhood intervention for ASD has centered on high-income countries like the United States, some of the most significant unmet needs for autistic individuals are in low- and middle-income countries.[316] In these contexts, research has been more limited but there is evidence to suggest that some comprehensive care plans can be successfully delivered by non-specialists in schools and in the community.[316]
Levy SE, Hyman SL (October 2008). "Complementary and alternative medicine treatments for children with autism spectrum disorders". Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics of North America (Review). 17 (4): 803–20, ix. doi:10.1016/j.chc.2008.06.004. PMC 2597185. PMID 18775371.
^ New York Times Staff (8 February 1981). "Charles B. Ferster, 58; Psychology Researcher". The New York Times. Retrieved 6 January 2018.
"[Autistic psychopathy or pervasive developmental disorder: how has Asperger's syndrome changed in the past sixty years?]"
^ Sugathan A, Biagioli M, Golzio C, Erdin S, Blumenthal I, Manavalan P,et al. (October 2014). "CHD8 regulates neurodevelopmental pathways associated with autism spectrum disorder in neural progenitors". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 111 (42): E4468–E4477. Bibcode:2014PNAS..111E4468S. doi:10.1073/pnas.1405266111. PMC 4210312. PMID 25294932.
Tager-Flusberg H (2010). "The origins of social impairments in autism spectrum disorder: studies of infants at risk". Neural Networks. 23 (8–9): 1072–6. doi:10.1016/j.neunet.2010.07.008. PMC 2956843. PMID 20800990.
"Pharmacologic treatments for the behavioral symptoms associated with autism spectrum disorders across the lifespan"
^ a b c Tager-Flusberg H, Caronna E (June 2007). "Language disorders: autism and other pervasive developmental disorders". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 54 (3): 469–81, vi. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2007.02.011. PMID 17543905.
^ "Medication Treatment for Autism". www.nichd.nih.gov/. Retrieved 21 February 2023.
Cook EH, Scherer SW (October 2008). "Copy-number variations associated with neuropsychiatric conditions". Nature. 455 (7215): 919–923. Bibcode:2008Natur.455..919C. doi:10.1038/nature07458. PMID 18923514. S2CID 4377899.
The DSM-5 and ICD-11 use different categorisation tools to define this spectrum. DSM-5 uses a "level" system, which ranks how in need of support the patient is,[21] while the ICD-11 system has two axes: intellectual impairment and language impairment,[22] as these are seen as the most crucial factors.
"BCKDK deficiency: a treatable neurodevelopmental disease amenable to newborn screening"
"Social Matters: Improving social skills interventions for Ontarians with Autism Spectrum Disorder"
"Understanding emotions in others: mirror neuron dysfunction in children with autism spectrum disorders"
^ Matson JL, Neal D (2009). "Cormorbidity: diagnosing comorbid psychiatric conditions". Psychiatr Times. 26 (4). Archived from the original on 3 April 2013.
Thompson BA, Tremblay V, Lin G, Bochar DA (June 2008). "CHD8 is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor that regulates beta-catenin target genes". Molecular and Cellular Biology. 28 (12): 3894–3904. doi:10.1128/mcb.00322-08. PMC 2423111. PMID 18378692.
"The Psychological Appeal of Personalized Content in Web Portals: Does Customization Affect Attitudes and Behavior?"
Huerta M, Lord C (February 2012). "Diagnostic evaluation of autism spectrum disorders". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 59 (1): 103–11, xi. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2011.10.018. PMC 3269006. PMID 22284796.
^ Praslova, Ludmila N. (1 April 2022). "Your "Autism Awareness Day" Might Be Excluding Autistic People". Harvard Business Review. ISSN 0017-8012. Retrieved 8 February 2023.
Pedersen AL, Pettygrove S, Lu Z, Andrews J, Meaney FJ, Kurzius-Spencer M,et al. (August 2017). "DSM Criteria that Best Differentiate Intellectual Disability from Autism Spectrum Disorder". Child Psychiatry and Human Development. 48 (4): 537–545. doi:10.1007/s10578-016-0681-0. PMID 27558812. S2CID 4377173.
Attempts to identify and use best intervention practices for students with autism also pose a challenge due to over dependence on popular or well-known interventions and curricula.[315] Some evidence suggests that although these interventions work for some students, there remains a lack of specificity for which type of student, under what environmental conditions (one-on-one, specialized instruction or general education) and for which targeted deficits they work best.[315] More research is needed to identify what assessment methods are most effective for identifying the level of educational needs for students with ASD. Additionally, children living in higher resources settings in the United States tend to experience earlier ASD interventions than children in lower resource settings (e.g. rural areas).[316]
^ a b c Dover CJ, Le Couteur A (June 2007). "How to diagnose autism". Archives of Disease in Childhood. 92 (6): 540–545. doi:10.1136/adc.2005.086280. PMC 2066173. PMID 17515625.
Weissman L (March 2020). "Autism spectrum disorder in children and adolescents: Pharmacologic interventions". Retrieved 17 March 2020.
^ Cotney J, Muhle RA, Sanders SJ, Liu L, Willsey AJ, Niu W,et al. (March 2015). "The autism-associated chromatin modifier CHD8 regulates other autism risk genes during human neurodevelopment". Nature Communications. 6 (1): 6404. Bibcode:2015NatCo...6.6404C. doi:10.1038/ncomms7404. PMC 4355952. PMID 25752243.
Johnson KR, Ennis-Cole D, Bohamgregory M (21 February 2020). "Workplace Success Strategies for Employees With Autism Spectrum Disorder: A New Frontier for Human Resource Development". Human Resource Development Review. 19 (2): 122–151. doi:10.1177/1534484320905910. S2CID 213995367.
^ Doyle CA, McDougle CJ (September 2012). "Pharmacologic treatments for the behavioral symptoms associated with autism spectrum disorders across the lifespan". Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience. 14 (3): 263–279. doi:10.31887/DCNS.2012.14.3/cdoyle. PMC 3513681. PMID 23226952.
Huang Y, Arnold SR, Foley KR, Trollor JN (August 2020). "Diagnosis of autism in adulthood: A scoping review". Autism. 24 (6): 1311–1327. doi:10.1177/1362361320903128. PMID 32106698. S2CID 211556350.
"What are the signs and symptoms of ASD?". Government of Canada. 18 January 2016. Retrieved 4 November 2021.
^ a b Weissman L (March 2020). "Autism spectrum disorder in children and adolescents: Pharmacologic interventions". Retrieved 17 March 2020.
^ a b c Manouilenko I, Bejerot S (August 2015). "Sukhareva--Prior to Asperger and Kanner". Nordic Journal of Psychiatry (Report) (published 31 March 2015). 69 (6): 479–482. doi:10.3109/08039488.2015.1005022. PMID 25826582. S2CID 207473133.
^ Orinstein AJ, Helt M, Troyb E, Tyson KE, Barton ML, Eigsti IM,et al. (May 2014). "Intervention for optimal outcome in children and adolescents with a history of autism". Journal of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics. 35 (4): 247–256. doi:10.1097/DBP.0000000000000037. PMC 4487510. PMID 24799263.
ASDs tend to be highly comorbid with other disorders.[97] Comorbidity may increase with age and may worsen the course of youth with ASDs and make intervention and treatment more difficult. Distinguishing between ASDs and other diagnoses can be challenging because the traits of ASDs often overlap with symptoms of other disorders, and the characteristics of ASDs make traditional diagnostic procedures difficult.[210][211]
"Autism may have had advantages in humans' hunter-gatherer past, researcher believes". ScienceDaily. University of Southern California. 3 June 2011.
^ Duchan E, Patel DR (February 2012). "Epidemiology of autism spectrum disorders". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 59 (1): 27–43, ix–x. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2011.10.003. PMID 22284791.
^ "The psychiatric management of autism in adults (CR228)". Royal College of Psychiatrists (UK). Retrieved 29 April 2022.
^ Szpir M (July 2006). "Tracing the origins of autism: a spectrum of new studies". Environmental Health Perspectives. 114 (7): A412–A418. doi:10.1289/ehp.114-a412. PMC 1513312. PMID 16835042.
^ Zafeiriou DI, Ververi A, Vargiami E (June 2007). "Childhood autism and associated comorbidities". Brain & Development. 29 (5): 257–272. doi:10.1016/j.braindev.2006.09.003. PMID 17084999. S2CID 16386209.
"HP Australia and Dept of Human Services join the Dandelion Program"
"Conditions That May Look Like Autism, but Aren't". WebMD. Retrieved 10 May 2020.
^ a b c d e Ji N, Findling RL (March 2015). "An update on pharmacotherapy for autism spectrum disorder in children and adolescents". Current Opinion in Psychiatry. 28 (2): 91–101. doi:10.1097/YCO.0000000000000132. PMID 25602248. S2CID 206141453.
"6A02 Autism spectrum disorder". International Classification of Diseases 11th Revision (ICD-11). World Health Organisation. February 2022 [adopted in 2019]. 6A02. Retrieved 14 May 2022.
"Barriers to Autism Spectrum Disorder Diagnosis for Young Women and Girls: a Systematic Review"
Tye C, Runicles AK, Whitehouse AJ, Alvares GA (2019). "Characterizing the Interplay Between Autism Spectrum Disorder and Comorbid Medical Conditions: An Integrative Review". Frontiers in Psychiatry (Review). 9: 751. doi:10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00751. PMC 6354568. PMID 30733689.
^ "Why Asperger's Syndrome is no longer listed in the DSM".
ASD includes a wide variety of characteristics. Some of these include behavioral characteristics which widely range from slow development of social and learning skills to difficulties creating connections with other people. Autistic individuals may experience these challenges with forming connections due to anxiety or depression, which they are more likely to experience, and as a result isolate themselves.[69][medical citation needed]
Also in 1998, British doctor Andrew Wakefield published a controversial paper claiming a link between some vaccines and autism. It was subsequently found to be fraudulent.
Baron-Cohen S, Klin A (June 2006). "What's so special about Asperger Syndrome?" (PDF). Brain and Cognition. 61 (1): 1–4. doi:10.1016/j.bandc.2006.02.002. PMID 16563588. S2CID 12554302. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 February 2012. Retrieved 5 April 2012.
Israelyan N, Margolis KG (June 2018). "Serotonin as a link between the gut-brain-microbiome axis in autism spectrum disorders". Pharmacological Research (Review). 132: 1–6. doi:10.1016/j.phrs.2018.03.020. PMC 6368356. PMID 29614380.
Asperger H (1938). "Das psychisch abnormale Kind" [The psychically abnormal child]. Wien Klin Wochenschr (in German). 51: 1314–1317.
Loss of any language or social skills, at any age.
^ Levinovitz A (29 April 2015). "An Alternative-Medicine Believer's Journey Back to Science". WIRED. Retrieved 13 February 2017. The entire diagnosis and explanation took no more than 45 minutes. 'In the moment of diagnosis, it feels like the death of your hopes and dreams,' Louise [Laidler] says. There's a quiet grief in her voice, even though two decades have passed. 'In a way, it's even harder than a death, because you can't mourn and go on,' she says. 'You have to figure out how to care for your new child.'
^ Tsakanikos E, Costello H, Holt G, Sturmey P, Bouras N (July 2007). "Behaviour management problems as predictors of psychotropic medication and use of psychiatric services in adults with autism" (PDF). Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 37 (6): 1080–5. doi:10.1007/s10803-006-0248-1. PMID 17053989. S2CID 14272598.
"Frequently Asked Questions about Thimerosal". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 21 February 2017.
Milton, Damian; Gurbuz, Emine; López, Beatriz (November 2022). "The 'double empathy problem': Ten years on". Autism. 26 (8): 1901–1903. doi:10.1177/13623613221129123. ISSN 1362-3613. PMID 36263746. S2CID 253020669.
"The origins of social impairments in autism spectrum disorder: studies of infants at risk"
Dawson G, Osterling J (1997). "Early Intervention in Autism".In Guralnick MJ (ed.). The effectiveness of early intervention. Baltimore: Brookes. pp. 307–326. ISBN 1-55766-255-X. OCLC 34411043. ERIC ED414694.
In 2011, a paper in Evolutionary Psychology proposed that autistic traits, including increased abilities for spatial intelligence, concentration and memory, could have been naturally selected to enable self-sufficient foraging in a more (although not completely) solitary environment, referred to as the "Solitary Forager Hypothesis".[152][153][154] A 2016 paper examines Asperger syndrome as "an alternative prosocial adaptive strategy" which may have developed as a result of the emergence of "collaborative morality" in the context of small-scale hunter-gathering, i.e. where "a positive social reputation for making a contribution to group wellbeing and survival" becomes more important than complex social understanding.[155]
^ a b Penn HE (February 2006). "Neurobiological correlates of autism: a review of recent research". Child Neuropsychology. 12 (1): 57–79. doi:10.1080/09297040500253546. PMID 16484102. S2CID 46119993.
"Severe impairments of social interaction and associated abnormalities in children: Epidemiology and classification"
^ American Psychiatric Association (18 May 2013). DSM-5. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. Arlington County. doi:10.1176/APPI.BOOKS.9780890425596. ISBN 978-0-89042-554-1. OCLC 830807378. OL 27587204M. Wikidata Q3064664.
Williams Buckley A, Hirtz D, Oskoui M,et al. (March 2020). "Practice guideline: Treatment for insomnia and disrupted sleep behavior in children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorder: Report of the Guideline Development, Dissemination, and Implementation Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology". Neurology. 94 (9): 392–404. doi:10.1212/WNL.0000000000009033. PMC 7238942. PMID 32051244.
^ Lintas C, Persico AM (January 2009). "Autistic phenotypes and genetic testing: state-of-the-art for the clinical geneticist". Journal of Medical Genetics. 46 (1): 1–8. doi:10.1136/jmg.2008.060871. PMC 2603481. PMID 18728070.
Gastrointestinal problems are one of the most commonly co-occurring medical conditions in autistic people.[159] These are linked to greater social impairment, irritability, language impairments, mood changes, and behavior and sleep problems.[159][160]
ASD may be under-diagnosed in women and girls due to an assumption that it is primarily a male condition,[119] but genetic phenomena such as imprinting and X linkage have the ability to raise the frequency and severity of conditions in males, and theories have been put forward for a genetic reason why males are diagnosed more often, such as the imprinted brain hypothesis and the extreme male brain theory.[120][121][122]
^ Mandell DS, Novak MM, Zubritsky CD (December 2005). "Factors associated with age of diagnosis among children with autism spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. 116 (6): 1480–1486. doi:10.1542/peds.2005-0185. PMC 2861294. PMID 16322174.
Hull L, Petrides KV, Allison C, Smith P, Baron-Cohen S, Lai MC, Mandy W (August 2017). ""Putting on My Best Normal": Social Camouflaging in Adults with Autism Spectrum Conditions". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 47 (8): 2519–2534. doi:10.1007/s10803-017-3166-5. PMC 5509825. PMID 28527095.
^ a b "Autism". World Health Organization. 30 March 2022. Retrieved 8 May 2022.
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that about 1 in 100 children have autism.[5] The number of people diagnosed has increased considerably since the 1990s, which may be partly due to increased recognition of the condition.[330]
Dinstein I, Thomas C, Behrmann M, Heeger DJ (2008). "A mirror up to nature". Curr Biol. 18 (1): R13–8. doi:10.1016/j.cub.2007.11.004. PMC 2517574. PMID 18177704.
Azhari A, Azizan F, Esposito G (July 2019). "A systematic review of gut-immune-brain mechanisms in Autism Spectrum Disorder". Developmental Psychobiology. 61 (5): 752–771. doi:10.1002/dev.21803. hdl:10220/49107. PMID 30523646. S2CID 54523742.
^ DSM-5-TR, "Autism spectrum disorder encompasses disorders previously referred to as early infantile autism, childhood autism, Kanner's autism, high-functioning autism, atypical autism, pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified, childhood disintegrative disorder, and Asperger's disorder".
American animal behaviourist Temple Grandin came to prominence in 1995, with the publishing of her popular book Thinking in Pictures: My Life with Autism. She would later become a board member of the Autism Society of America.
"Cluster A - Schizoid Personality Disorder and Substance Use Disorders"
Buie T (May 2013). "The relationship of autism and gluten". Clinical Therapeutics (Review). 35 (5): 578–583. doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2013.04.011. PMID 23688532. At this time, the studies attempting to treat symptoms of autism with diet have not been sufficient to support the general institution of a gluten-free or other diet for all children with autism. There may be a subgroup of patients who might benefit from a gluten-free diet, but the symptom or testing profile of these candidates remains unclear.
^ a b Simms MD (February 2017). "When Autistic Behavior Suggests a Disease Other than Classic Autism". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 64 (1): 127–138. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2016.08.009. PMID 27894440.
^ a b c d e f g Myers SM, Johnson CP (November 2007). "Management of children with autism spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. 120 (5): 1162–1182. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-2362. PMID 17967921.
^ a b Fombonne E (June 2009). "Epidemiology of pervasive developmental disorders". Pediatric Research. 65 (6): 591–598. doi:10.1203/PDR.0b013e31819e7203. PMID 19218885.
"DSM-5 Diagnostic Criteria". U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee. Retrieved 17 May 2017.
Crespi B, Stead P, Elliot M (January 2010). "Evolution in health and medicine Sackler colloquium: Comparative genomics of autism and schizophrenia". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 107 (Suppl 1): 1736–1741. Bibcode:2010PNAS..107.1736C. doi:10.1073/pnas.0906080106. PMC 2868282. PMID 19955444.
Silverman C (2008). "Fieldwork on another planet: social science perspectives on the autism spectrum". BioSocieties. 3 (3): 325–341. doi:10.1017/S1745855208006236. S2CID 145379758.
Gabovitch, Elaine; Dutra, Courtney; Lauer, Emily. (2016). The Healthy People 2020 Roadmap for Massachusetts Children & Youth with ASD/DD: Understanding Needs and Measuring Outcomes (Report). Worcester: UMASS Chan Medical School. Retrieved 30 June 2022.
^ Simpson RL, de Boer-Ott SR, Smith-Myles B (2003). "Inclusion of Learners with Autism Spectrum Disorders in General Education Settings". Topics in Language Disorders. 23 (2): 116–133. doi:10.1097/00011363-200304000-00005. S2CID 143733343. Archived from the original on 14 July 2011.
Some studies on rodents have shown gut bacteria influencing emotional functions and neurotransmitter balance in the brain, both of which are impacted in ASD.[117]
^ "UCLA/Lovaas Intervention". Association for Science in Autism Treatment. Retrieved 6 January 2023.
^ Steinhausen HC, Mohr Jensen C, Lauritsen MB (June 2016). "A systematic review and meta-analysis of the long-term overall outcome of autism spectrum disorders in adolescence and adulthood". Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica. 133 (6): 445–452. doi:10.1111/acps.12559. PMID 26763353. S2CID 12341774.
^ Frye RE (August 2018). "Social Skills Deficits in Autism Spectrum Disorder: Potential Biological Origins and Progress in Developing Therapeutic Agents". CNS Drugs. 32 (8): 713–734. doi:10.1007/s40263-018-0556-y. PMC 6105175. PMID 30105528.
The neurodiversity movement and the autism rights movement are social movements within the context of disability rights, emphasizing the concept of neurodiversity, which describes the autism spectrum as a result of natural variations in the human brain rather than a disorder to be cured.[409] The autism rights movement advocates for including greater acceptance of autistic behaviors; therapies that focus on coping skills rather than imitating the behaviors of those without autism;[425] and the recognition of the autistic community as a minority group.[425][426]
"Diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder: reconciling the syndrome, its diverse origins, and variation in expression"
The second core symptom of autism spectrum is a pattern of restricted and repetitive behaviors, activities, and interests. In order to be diagnosed with ASD under the DSM-5-TR, a person must have at least two of the following behaviors:[34][71]
^ Shattuck PT, Grosse SD (2007). "Issues related to the diagnosis and treatment of autism spectrum disorders". Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews. 13 (2): 129–135. doi:10.1002/mrdd.20143. PMID 17563895.
^ Werling DM, Brand H, An JY, Stone MR, Zhu L, Glessner JT,et al. (April 2018). "An analytical framework for whole-genome sequence association studies and its implications for autism spectrum disorder". Nature Genetics. 50 (5): 727–736. doi:10.1038/s41588-018-0107-y. PMC 5961723. PMID 29700473.
Educational interventions often used include applied behavior analysis (ABA), developmental models, structured teaching, speech and language therapy and social skills therapy.[247] Among these approaches, interventions either treat autistic features comprehensively, or focalize treatment on a specific area of deficit.[249]
Di Pietrantonj C, Rivetti A, Marchione P, Debalini MG, Demicheli V (November 2021). "Vaccines for measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella in children". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2021 (11): CD004407. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD004407.pub5. PMC 8607336. PMID 34806766.
^ a b c d Hahler EM, Elsabbagh M (1 March 2015). "Autism: A Global Perspective". Current Developmental Disorders Reports. 2 (1): 58–64. doi:10.1007/s40474-014-0033-3. ISSN 2196-2987. S2CID 73214418.
Greenburg, Carol; Rosa, Shannon Des Roches (2020),Kapp, Steven K. (ed.), "Two Winding Parent Paths to Neurodiversity Advocacy", Autistic Community and the Neurodiversity Movement: Stories from the Frontline, Singapore: Springer, pp. 155–166, doi:10.1007/978-981-13-8437-0_12, ISBN 978-981-13-8437-0, S2CID 210535612, retrieved 1 March 2023
^ a b "Social Matters: Improving social skills interventions for Ontarians with Autism Spectrum Disorder" (PDF). Autism Ontario. Retrieved 2 February 2023.
Autistic-specialist employment services company Specialisterne was founded by Danish IT worker Thorkil Sonne in 2003.[392] It has gone on to operate in various parts of Europe, North America and Australia.
^ Pinel JP (2011). Biopsychology (8th ed.). Boston, Massachusetts: Pearson. p. 235. ISBN 978-0-205-03099-6. OCLC 1085798897.
9History											Toggle History subsection																					9.1Bleuler and Sukhareva																											9.2Asperger and Kanner																											9.31950s to 1970s																								9.3.1The 1950s																											9.3.2The 1960s																														9.4DSM-III and pervasive developmental disorder (1980–1987)																											9.5DSM-III-R, autistic disorder and PDD-NOS (1987–1994)																											9.6DSM-IV, autistic disorder, Asperger syndrome and other conditions (1994–2013)																								9.6.11994–1999																											9.6.22000–2004																											9.6.32005–2009																														9.7DSM-5 and autistic spectrum disorder (2013–present)																								9.7.12013–2017																											9.7.22018–present
^ Trivedi B. "Autistic and proud of it". New Scientist. Reed Elsevier. ISSN 0262-4079. Retrieved 10 November 2015.
^ Cook EH, Scherer SW (October 2008). "Copy-number variations associated with neuropsychiatric conditions". Nature. 455 (7215): 919–923. Bibcode:2008Natur.455..919C. doi:10.1038/nature07458. PMID 18923514. S2CID 4377899.
"Diagnostic Criteria | Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) | NCBDDD | CDC"
^ a b Ronan JL, Wu W, Crabtree GR (May 2013). "From neural development to cognition: unexpected roles for chromatin". Nature Reviews. Genetics. 14 (5): 347–359. doi:10.1038/nrg3413. PMC 4010428. PMID 23568486.
"Placebo response in pharmacological and dietary supplement trials of autism spectrum disorder (ASD): systematic review and meta-regression analysis"
^ a b c Halsey NA, Hyman SL (May 2001). "Measles-mumps-rubella vaccine and autistic spectrum disorder: report from the New Challenges in Childhood Immunizations Conference convened in Oak Brook, Illinois, June 12-13, 2000". Pediatrics. 107 (5): E84. doi:10.1542/peds.107.5.e84. PMID 11331734.
Benevides TW, Shore SM, Andresen ML, Caplan R, Cook B, Gassner DL,et al. (August 2020). "Interventions to address health outcomes among autistic adults: A systematic review". Autism. 24 (6): 1345–1359. doi:10.1177/1362361320913664. PMC 7787674. PMID 32390461. S2CID 218586379.
Tracy A Becerra-Culqui; Frances L Lynch; Ashli A Owen-Smith; Joseph Spitzer; Lisa A Croen (1 October 2018). "Parental First Concerns and Timing of Autism Spectrum Disorder Diagnosis". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 48 (10): 3367–3376. doi:10.1007/S10803-018-3598-6. ISSN 0162-3257. PMID 29754290. Wikidata Q88651632.
^ Emily Harrison (25 January 2021). "Autism Myth #6: People with Autism Don't Have Empathy". Retrieved 5 January 2023.
^ a b Ohl A, Grice Sheff M, Small S, Nguyen J, Paskor K, Zanjirian A (2017). "Predictors of employment status among adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder". Work. 56 (2): 345–355. doi:10.3233/WOR-172492. PMID 28211841.
Simpson RL, de Boer-Ott SR, Smith-Myles B (2003). "Inclusion of Learners with Autism Spectrum Disorders in General Education Settings". Topics in Language Disorders. 23 (2): 116–133. doi:10.1097/00011363-200304000-00005. S2CID 143733343. Archived from the original on 14 July 2011.
CDC (31 March 2022). "Basics About Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) | NCBDDD | CDC". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 15 September 2022.
Levinovitz A (29 April 2015). "An Alternative-Medicine Believer's Journey Back to Science". WIRED. Retrieved 13 February 2017. The entire diagnosis and explanation took no more than 45 minutes. 'In the moment of diagnosis, it feels like the death of your hopes and dreams,' Louise [Laidler] says. There's a quiet grief in her voice, even though two decades have passed. 'In a way, it's even harder than a death, because you can't mourn and go on,' she says. 'You have to figure out how to care for your new child.'
^ Robison JE (2020). "My Time with Autism Speaks".In Kapp SK (ed.). Autistic Community and the Neurodiversity Movement. Autistic Community and the Neurodiversity Movement: Stories from the Frontline. Singapore: Springer. pp. 221–232. doi:10.1007/978-981-13-8437-0_16. ISBN 978-981-13-8437-0. S2CID 210496353. Retrieved 23 April 2022.
Cell adhesion molecules that are essential to formation and maintenance of connections between neurons, neuroligins found on postsynaptic neurons that bind presynaptic cell adhesion molecules, and proteins that anchor cell adhesion molecules to neurons are all found to be mutated in ASD.[117]
^ Spikins P (6 March 2013). "The Stone Age Origins of Autism".In Fitzgerald M (ed.). Recent Advances in Autism Spectrum Disorders - Volume II.
Duchan E, Patel DR (February 2012). "Epidemiology of autism spectrum disorders". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 59 (1): 27–43, ix–x. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2011.10.003. PMID 22284791.
Regressive autism occurs when a child appears to develop typically but then starts to lose speech and social skills and is subsequently diagnosed with ASD.[125] Other terms used to describe regression in children with autism are autism with regression, autistic regression, setback-type autism, and acquired autistic syndrome.[305]
Schultz RT (2005). "Developmental deficits in social perception in autism: the role of the amygdala and fusiform face area". International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience. 23 (2–3): 125–41. doi:10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2004.12.012. PMID 15749240. S2CID 17078137.
^ Bertoglio K, Hendren RL (March 2009). "New developments in autism". The Psychiatric Clinics of North America. 32 (1): 1–14. doi:10.1016/j.psc.2008.10.004. PMID 19248913.
The term "neurodiversity" was coined in 1998 by Australian sociologist Judy Singer and American self-advocate Jane Meyerdin.[389] Neurodiversity is the idea that people can think differently to the norm without those differences being a medical problem.
Dragioti E, Solmi M, Favaro A, Fusar-Poli P, Dazzan P, Thompson T,et al. (October 2019). "Association of Antidepressant Use With Adverse Health Outcomes: A Systematic Umbrella Review". JAMA Psychiatry. 76 (12): 1241–1255. doi:10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2019.2859. PMC 6777224. PMID 31577342.
Steinhausen HC, Mohr Jensen C, Lauritsen MB (June 2016). "A systematic review and meta-analysis of the long-term overall outcome of autism spectrum disorders in adolescence and adulthood". Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica. 133 (6): 445–452. doi:10.1111/acps.12559. PMID 26763353. S2CID 12341774.
"Automatic Assessment of Motor Impairments in Autism Spectrum Disorders: A Systematic Review"
^ a b Zwaigenbaum L, Bauman ML, Choueiri R, Kasari C, Carter A, Granpeesheh D,et al. (October 2015). "Early Intervention for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder Under 3 Years of Age: Recommendations for Practice and Research". Pediatrics. 136 (Supplement 1): S60-81. doi:10.1542/peds.2014-3667E. PMC 9923898. PMID 26430170.
Researchers Giacomo Rizzolatti, Giuseppe Di Pellegrino, Luciano Fadiga, Leonardo Fogassi, and Vittorio Gallese at the University of Parma published a paper announcing the existence of mirror neurons in 1992.[382] They found that when a monkey watches another monkey doing something, specialised neurons in the first monkey's brain fire in a way that mirrors the firing of the neurons in the acting monkey. The same scientists later found the same thing in human brains.[383] It has been proposed that differences in the mirror neuron system is an important difference between people with and without autism,[384][385] though the connection is currently considered tentative.[386]
"Still too much delay in recognition of autism spectrum disorder"
"A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Multiple Airborne Pollutants and Autism Spectrum Disorder"
^ Ospina MB, Krebs Seida J, Clark B, Karkhaneh M, Hartling L, Tjosvold L,et al. (2008). "Behavioural and developmental interventions for autism spectrum disorder: a clinical systematic review". PLOS ONE. 3 (11): e3755. Bibcode:2008PLoSO...3.3755O. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0003755. PMC 2582449. PMID 19015734.
Tuberous sclerosis, an autosomal dominant genetic condition in which non-malignant tumors grow in the brain and on other vital organs, is present in 1–4% of individuals with ASDs.[214]
Tager-Flusberg H, Caronna E (June 2007). "Language disorders: autism and other pervasive developmental disorders". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 54 (3): 469–81, vi. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2007.02.011. PMID 17543905.
^ a b c d e f Smith T, Iadarola S (2 November 2015). "Evidence Base Update for Autism Spectrum Disorder". Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 44 (6): 897–922. doi:10.1080/15374416.2015.1077448. ISSN 1537-4416. PMID 26430947.
^ Chaste P, Leboyer M (September 2012). "Autism risk factors: genes, environment, and gene-environment interactions". Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience. 14 (3): 281–292. doi:10.31887/DCNS.2012.14.3/pchaste. PMC 3513682. PMID 23226953.
From the late 1950s, Charles Ferster and others used the new science of behaviorism to teach people with autism and other mental conditions. This led researchers at the University of Kansas to start the Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis in 1968, establishing the concept of applied behavior analysis (ABA). ABA soon came to be used extensively with autistic children in the United States. Two major American professional associations would later be founded for ABA practitioners, with the credentialing "Behavior Analysis Accrediting Board" founded in 1998.
Brugha T, Cooper SA, McManus S, Purdon S, Smith J, Scott FJ,et al. (31 January 2012). "Estimating the prevalence of autism spectrum conditions in adults: extending the 2007 Adult Psychiatric Morbidity Survey" (PDF). The Information Centre for Health and Social Care. National Health Service, UK. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 December 2014. Retrieved 29 December 2014.
^ a b c d e Ozonoff S, Heung K, Byrd R, Hansen R, Hertz-Picciotto I (December 2008). "The onset of autism: patterns of symptom emergence in the first years of life". Autism Research. 1 (6): 320–328. doi:10.1002/aur.53. PMC 2857525. PMID 19360687.
"Diagnosis lost: Differences between children who had and who currently have an autism spectrum disorder diagnosis"
Deficits in ASD are often linked to behavior problems, such as difficulties following directions, being cooperative, and doing things on other people's terms.[230] Symptoms similar to those of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) can be part of an ASD diagnosis.[231]
Lord C (November 1995). "Follow-up of two-year-olds referred for possible autism". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 36 (8): 1365–82. doi:10.1111/j.1469-7610.1995.tb01669.x. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMID 8988272.
National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (31 March 2022). "Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring (ADDM) Network". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 4 April 2022.
hyper- or hypo-sensitivity to or unusual response to the smell, texture, sound, taste, or appearance of things
^ Volkmar, F. R.; Bregman, J.; Cohen, D. J.; Cicchetti, D. V. (November 1988). "DSM-III and DSM-III-R diagnoses of autism". The American Journal of Psychiatry. 145 (11): 1404–1408. doi:10.1176/ajp.145.11.1404. ISSN 0002-953X. PMID 3189597.
^ Lambert N, Strebel P, Orenstein W, Icenogle J, Poland GA (June 2015). "Rubella". Lancet. 385 (9984): 2297–2307. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60539-0. PMC 4514442. PMID 25576992.
Holder Jr JL, Hamdan FF, Michaud JL (2019). "SYNGAP1-Related Intellectual Disability". Gene Reviews (Review). PMID 30789692.
Mason, Tara (23 July 2021). "DSM-IV Diagnostic Criteria for Autism Spectrum Disorders". The Autism Community in Action (TACA). Retrieved 5 January 2023.
^ Lam J, Sutton P, Kalkbrenner A, Windham G, Halladay A, Koustas E,et al. (2016). "A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Multiple Airborne Pollutants and Autism Spectrum Disorder". PLOS ONE. 11 (9): e0161851. Bibcode:2016PLoSO..1161851L. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0161851. PMC 5031428. PMID 27653281.
Happé F, Frith U (August 1996). "The neuropsychology of autism". Brain. OUP. 119 (4): 1377–1400. doi:10.1093/brain/119.4.1377. PMID 8813299.
Ben-Sasson A, Hen L, Fluss R, Cermak SA, Engel-Yeger B, Gal E (January 2009). "A meta-analysis of sensory modulation symptoms in individuals with autism spectrum disorders". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 39 (1): 1–11. doi:10.1007/s10803-008-0593-3. PMID 18512135. S2CID 5208889.
^ Asperger, Hans (1 June 1944). "Die "Autistischen Psychopathen" im Kindesalter". Archiv für Psychiatrie und Nervenkrankheiten (in German). 117 (1): 76–136. doi:10.1007/BF01837709. ISSN 1433-8491. S2CID 33674869.
Understanding and Working With the Spectrum of Autism: An Insider's View
The presentation and diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder may vary based on sex and gender identity. Most studies that have investigated the impact of gender on presentation and diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder have not differentiated between the impact of sex versus gender.[194] There is some evidence that autistic women and girls tend to show less repetitive behavior and may engage in more camouflaging than autistic males.[195] Camouflaging may include making oneself perform normative facial expressions and eye contact.[196] Differences in behavioral presentation and gender-stereotypes may make it more challenging to diagnose autism spectrum disorder in a timely manner in females.[194][195] A notable percentage of autistic females may be misdiagnosed, diagnosed after a considerable delay, or not diagnosed at all.[195]
The Economic World. New York city: Chronicle Publishing Company. 1917. p. 366.
Dwyer P, Ryan JG, Williams ZJ, Gassner DL (April 2022). "First Do No Harm: Suggestions Regarding Respectful Autism Language". Pediatrics. American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP). 149 (Suppl 4). doi:10.1542/peds.2020-049437n. PMC 9066426. PMID 35363298.
The World Health Organization's International Classification of Diseases (11th Revision), ICD-11, was released in June 2018 and came into full effect as of January 2022.[31][27] It describes ASD as follows:[32]
"The bowel and beyond: the enteric nervous system in neurological disorders"
^ a b Ozonoff S, Goodlin-Jones BL, Solomon M (September 2005). "Evidence-based assessment of autism spectrum disorders in children and adolescents" (PDF). Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 34 (3): 523–40. doi:10.1207/s15374424jccp3403_8. ISSN 1537-4416. PMID 16083393. S2CID 14322690. Archived from the original (PDF) on 18 April 2021. Retrieved 3 September 2019.
^ Kanner L (July 1949). "Problems of nosology and psychodynamics of early infantile autism". The American Journal of Orthopsychiatry. 19 (3): 416–26. doi:10.1111/j.1939-0025.1949.tb05441.x. PMID 18146742.
^ Rogers SJ (June 2009). "What are infant siblings teaching us about autism in infancy?". Autism Research. 2 (3): 125–137. doi:10.1002/aur.81. PMC 2791538. PMID 19582867.
^ Chambres P, Auxiette C, Vansingle C, Gil S (August 2008). "Adult attitudes toward behaviors of a six-year-old boy with autism". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 38 (7): 1320–1327. doi:10.1007/s10803-007-0519-5. PMID 18297387. S2CID 19769173.
^ Gargot T, Archambault D, Chetouani M, Cohen D, Johal W, Anzalone SM (10 January 2022). "Automatic Assessment of Motor Impairments in Autism Spectrum Disorders: A Systematic Review" (PDF). Cognitive Computation. 14 (2): 624–659. doi:10.1007/s12559-021-09940-8. ISSN 1866-9964. S2CID 248326222.
Several prenatal and perinatal complications have been reported as possible risk factors for autism. These risk factors include maternal gestational diabetes, maternal and paternal age over 30, bleeding during pregnancy after the first trimester, use of certain prescription medication (e.g. valproate) during pregnancy, and meconium in the amniotic fluid. While research is not conclusive on the relation of these factors to autism, each of these factors has been identified more frequently in children with autism, compared to their siblings who do not have autism, and other typically developing youth.[123] While it is unclear if any single factors during the prenatal phase affect the risk of autism,[124] complications during pregnancy may be a risk.[124]
^ Montes G, Halterman JS (April 2008). "Association of childhood autism spectrum disorders and loss of family income". Pediatrics. 121 (4): e821–e826. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-1594. PMID 18381511. S2CID 55179. Archived from the original on 4 March 2010.
Underwood L, McCarthy J, Tsakanikos E (September 2010). "Mental health of adults with autism spectrum disorders and intellectual disability". Current Opinion in Psychiatry. 23 (5): 421–6. doi:10.1097/YCO.0b013e32833cfc18. PMID 20613532. S2CID 13735841.
"Mixed emotions: the contribution of alexithymia to the emotional symptoms of autism"
^ "Autism in the DSM – The Autism History Project". blogs.uoregon.edu. Retrieved 2 January 2023.
^ McBrien J, Murphy J, Gill D, Cronin M, O'Donovan C, Cafferkey MT (July 2003). "Measles outbreak in Dublin, 2000". The Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal. 22 (7): 580–584. doi:10.1097/00006454-200307000-00002. PMID 12867830.
^ Cohen D, Grandin T (25 October 2005). "Temple Grandin: 'I'm an anthropologist from Mars'". The Guardian. Kings Place, London: Scott Trust. eISSN 1756-3224. ISSN 0261-3077. OCLC 60623878. Archived from the original on 9 November 2013. Retrieved 6 July 2022.
^ Hull L, Petrides KV, Allison C, Smith P, Baron-Cohen S, Lai MC, Mandy W (August 2017). ""Putting on My Best Normal": Social Camouflaging in Adults with Autism Spectrum Conditions". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 47 (8): 2519–2534. doi:10.1007/s10803-017-3166-5. PMC 5509825. PMID 28527095.
"Carol Gray". Carol Gray - Social Stories. Retrieved 5 January 2023.
^ a b Jaarsma P, Welin S (March 2012). "Autism as a natural human variation: reflections on the claims of the neurodiversity movement". Health Care Analysis. 20 (1): 20–30. doi:10.1007/s10728-011-0169-9. PMID 21311979. S2CID 18618887.
Wing L, Gould J, Gillberg C (1 March 2011). "Autism spectrum disorders in the DSM-V: better or worse than the DSM-IV?". Research in Developmental Disabilities. Elsevier. 32 (2): 768–773. doi:10.1016/j.ridd.2010.11.003. eISSN 1873-3379. ISSN 0891-4222. PMID 21208775.
"Screening for Autism Spectrum Disorder in Young Children: US Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement"
^ a b Mash EJ, Barkley RA (2003). Child Psychopathology. New York: The Guilford Press. pp. 409–454. ISBN 9781572306097.
Stereotyped behaviors: Repetitive movements, such as hand flapping, head rolling, or body rocking.
Johnny L Matson; Michael L Matson; Tessa T Rivet (September 2007). "Social-skills treatments for children with autism spectrum disorders: an overview". Behavior Modification. 31 (5): 682–707. doi:10.1177/0145445507301650. ISSN 0145-4455. PMID 17699124. Wikidata Q28240738.
^ DeThorne, Laura S. (1 March 2020). "Revealing the Double Empathy Problem". The ASHA Leader. 25 (3): 58–65. doi:10.1044/leader.ftr2.25042020.58. S2CID 216359201. Retrieved 16 April 2022.
Minshew NJ (April 1996). "Brief report: brain mechanisms in autism: functional and structural abnormalities". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 26 (2): 205–9. doi:10.1007/BF02172013. PMID 8744486. S2CID 8134205.
"Autism may have had advantages in humans' hunter-gatherer past, researcher believes"
Restricted interests: Interests or fixations that are abnormal in theme or intensity of focus, such as preoccupation with a single television program, toy, or game.
Jensen, M.; Smolen, C.; Girirajan, S. (2020). "Gene discoveries in autism are biased towards comorbidity with intellectual disability". Journal of Medical Genetics. 57 (9): 647–652. doi:10.1136/jmedgenet-2019-106476. PMC 7483239. PMID 32152248.
Autism is generally understood to be a spectrum disorder, as it can manifest differently in each person: any autistic individual is likely to show some, but not all, of the characteristics associated with it, and the person may exhibit them to varying degrees and frequencies.[6] There is large variation in the support needs of autistic people, and some are nonspeaking, while others have proficient spoken language.
"Time to give up on a single explanation for autism"
^ Zhang Y, Han VZ (April 2018). "[Neurobiological mechanisms of autistic savant and acquired savant]" [Neurobiological mechanisms of autistic savant and acquired savant]. Sheng Li Xue Bao (in Chinese). 70 (2): 201–210. PMID 29691585.
^ Kalyanaraman, Sriram & Sundar, S. Shyam (2006). "The Psychological Appeal of Personalized Content in Web Portals: Does Customization Affect Attitudes and Behavior?" Journal of Communication, Vol. 56, p. 110–132
Increased functional connectivity within the left hemisphere which directly correlates with severity of autism. This observation also supports preferential processing of details of individual components of sensory information over global processing of sensory information in an ASD brain.[169]
10Society and culture											Toggle Society and culture subsection																					10.1Neurodiversity movement																											10.2Symbols and flags																											10.3Caregivers
"Basics About Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) | NCBDDD | CDC"
Medications may be used to treat ASD symptoms that interfere with integrating a child into home or school when behavioral treatment fails.[268] They may also be used for associated health problems, such as ADHD or anxiety.[268] However, their routine prescription for the core features of ASD is not recommended.[269] More than half of US children diagnosed with ASD are prescribed psychoactive drugs or anticonvulsants, with the most common drug classes being antidepressants, stimulants, and antipsychotics.[270][271] The atypical antipsychotic drugs risperidone and aripiprazole are FDA-approved for treating associated aggressive and self-injurious behaviors.[254][272] However, their side effects must be weighed against their potential benefits, and autistic people may respond atypically.[254] Side effects may include weight gain, tiredness, drooling, and aggression.[254] There is some emerging data that show positive effects of aripiprazole and risperidone on restricted and repetitive behaviors (i.e., stimming; e.g., flapping, twisting, complex whole-body movements),[269] but due to the small sample size and different focus of these studies and the concerns about its side effects, antipsychotics are not recommended as primary treatment of RRBs.[273] SSRI antidepressants, such as fluoxetine and fluvoxamine, have been shown to be effective in reducing repetitive and ritualistic behaviors, while the stimulant medication methylphenidate is beneficial for some children with co-morbid inattentiveness or hyperactivity.[247] There is scant reliable research about the effectiveness or safety of drug treatments for adolescents and adults with ASD.[medical citation needed] No known medication relieves autism's core symptoms of social and communication impairments.[254]
Intellectual disabilities are some of the most common comorbid disorders with ASDs. As diagnosis is increasingly being given to people with higher functioning autism, there is a tendency for the proportion with comorbid intellectual disability to decrease over time. In a 2019 study, it was estimated that approximately 30-40% of people diagnosed with ASD also have intellectual disability.[215] Recent research has suggested that autistic people with intellectual disability tend to have rarer, more harmful, genetic mutations than those found in people solely diagnosed with autism.[216] A number of genetic syndromes causing intellectual disability may also be comorbid with ASD, including fragile X, Down, Prader-Willi, Angelman, Williams syndrome,[217] branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase kinase deficiency,[218][219] and SYNGAP1-related intellectual disability.[220][221]
Coplan J, Jawad AF (July 2005). "Modeling clinical outcome of children with autistic spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. 116 (1): 117–22. doi:10.1542/peds.2004-1118. PMID 15995041. S2CID 8440775.
Volkmar, F. R.; Bregman, J.; Cohen, D. J.; Cicchetti, D. V. (November 1988). "DSM-III and DSM-III-R diagnoses of autism". The American Journal of Psychiatry. 145 (11): 1404–1408. doi:10.1176/ajp.145.11.1404. ISSN 0002-953X. PMID 3189597.
^ Asperger H (1938). "Das psychisch abnormale Kind" [The psychically abnormal child]. Wien Klin Wochenschr (in German). 51: 1314–1317.
^ Woodbury-Smith MR, Volkmar FR (June 2008). "Asperger syndrome". European Child & Adolescent Psychiatry. 18 (1): 2–11. doi:10.1007/s00787-008-0701-0. PMID 18563474. S2CID 12808995.
Stephan DA (January 2008). "Unraveling autism". American Journal of Human Genetics. 82 (1): 7–9. doi:10.1016/j.ajhg.2007.12.003. PMC 2253980. PMID 18179879.
^ a b Brignell A, Chenausky KV, Song H, Zhu J, Suo C, Morgan AT (November 2018). "Communication interventions for autism spectrum disorder in minimally verbal children". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2018 (11): CD012324. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD012324.pub2. PMC 6516977. PMID 30395694.
Rogers SJ, Vismara LA (January 2008). "Evidence-based comprehensive treatments for early autism". Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 37 (1): 8–38. doi:10.1080/15374410701817808. PMC 2943764. PMID 18444052.
^ Rogers SJ, Vismara LA (January 2008). "Evidence-based comprehensive treatments for early autism". Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 37 (1): 8–38. doi:10.1080/15374410701817808. ISSN 1537-4416. PMC 2943764. PMID 18444052.
Autistic individuals bypass nonverbal cues and emotional sharing that they find difficult to deal with, and has given them a way to form online communities and work remotely.[401] Societal and cultural aspects of autism have developed: some in the community seek a cure, while others believe that autism is simply another way of being.[402][403]
^ Crespi B, Stead P, Elliot M (January 2010). "Evolution in health and medicine Sackler colloquium: Comparative genomics of autism and schizophrenia". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 107 (Suppl 1): 1736–1741. Bibcode:2010PNAS..107.1736C. doi:10.1073/pnas.0906080106. PMC 2868282. PMID 19955444.
Mantovani JF (May 2000). "Autistic regression and Landau-Kleffner syndrome: progress or confusion?". Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology. 42 (5): 349–353. doi:10.1017/S0012162200210621. PMID 10855658.
"Neurodevelopmental Disorders". Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition, Text Revision (DSM-5-TR). Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Association. 18 March 2022. ISBN 9780890425770. LCCN 2021051782.
Learning disabilities are also highly comorbid in individuals with an ASD. Approximately 25–75% of individuals with an ASD also have some degree of a learning disability.[222]
"CDC estimates 1 in 68 school-aged children have autism; no change from previous estimate"
Similarly, a teacher-implemented intervention that utilizes a more naturalistic form of ABA combined with a developmental social pragmatic approach has been found to be beneficial in improving social-communication skills in young children, although there is less evidence in its treatment of global symptoms.[249] Neuropsychological reports are often poorly communicated to educators, resulting in a gap between what a report recommends and what education is provided.[187] The appropriateness of including children with varying severity of autism spectrum disorders in the general education population is a subject of current debate among educators and researchers.[267]
Praslova, Ludmila N. (13 December 2021). "Autism Doesn't Hold People Back at Work. Discrimination Does". Harvard Business Review. ISSN 0017-8012. Retrieved 8 February 2023.
Listed below are some characteristic findings in ASD brains on molecular and cellular levels regardless of the specific genetic variation or mutation contributing to autism in a particular individual:
"Autism as a natural human variation: reflections on the claims of the neurodiversity movement"
Asperger, Hans (1 June 1944). "Die "Autistischen Psychopathen" im Kindesalter". Archiv für Psychiatrie und Nervenkrankheiten (in German). 117 (1): 76–136. doi:10.1007/BF01837709. ISSN 1433-8491. S2CID 33674869.
Limbic system with smaller neurons that are more densely packed together. Given that the limbic system is the main center of emotions and memory in the human brain, this observation may explain social impairment in ASD.[117]
Siafis S, Çıray O, Schneider-Thoma J, Bighelli I, Krause M, Rodolico A, Ceraso A, Deste G, Huhn M, Fraguas D, Mavridis D, Charman T, Murphy DG, Parellada M, Arango C, Leucht S (2020). "Placebo response in pharmacological and dietary supplement trials of autism spectrum disorder (ASD): systematic review and meta-regression analysis". Molecular Autism. 11 (1): 66. doi:10.1186/s13229-020-00372-z. PMC 7448339. PMID 32847616.
^ Brown MJ, Willis T, Omalu B, Leiker R (August 2006). "Deaths resulting from hypocalcemia after administration of edetate disodium: 2003-2005". Pediatrics. 118 (2): e534–e536. doi:10.1542/peds.2006-0858. PMID 16882789. S2CID 28656831. Archived from the original on 27 July 2009.
^ Wazana A, Bresnahan M, Kline J (June 2007). "The autism epidemic: fact or artifact?". Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. 46 (6): 721–730. doi:10.1097/chi.0b013e31804a7f3b. PMID 17513984.
^ Wing, Lorna; Gould, Judith (1 March 1979). "Severe impairments of social interaction and associated abnormalities in children: Epidemiology and classification". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 9 (1): 11–29. doi:10.1007/BF01531288. ISSN 1573-3432. PMID 155684. S2CID 29417925.
Autism rights or neurodiversity advocates believe that the autism spectrum is genetic and should be accepted as a natural variation in the human genome.[409] These movements are not without detractors; a common argument against neurodiversity activists is that most of them have relatively low support needs, or are self-diagnosed, and do not represent the views of autistic people with higher support needs.[426][427][428] In response, neurodiversity movement advocates have pointed to a number of advocates with higher-support needs, or who have family members in that category.[429][430]
^ London E (October 2007). "The role of the neurobiologist in redefining the diagnosis of autism". Brain Pathology. 17 (4): 408–411. doi:10.1111/j.1750-3639.2007.00103.x. PMC 8095627. PMID 17919126. S2CID 24860348.
Self-injurious behaviors (SIB) are relatively common in autistic people, and can include head-banging, self-cutting, self-biting, and hair-pulling.[74] Some of these behaviors can result in serious injury or death.[74] Following are theories about the cause of self-injurious behavior in children with developmental delay, including autistic individuals:[75]
^ Fournier KA, Hass CJ, Naik SK, Lodha N, Cauraugh JH (October 2010). "Motor coordination in autism spectrum disorders: a synthesis and meta-analysis". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 40 (10): 1227–1240. doi:10.1007/s10803-010-0981-3. PMID 20195737. S2CID 3469612.
Trivedi B. "Autistic and proud of it". New Scientist. Reed Elsevier. ISSN 0262-4079. Retrieved 10 November 2015.
^ Buie T (May 2013). "The relationship of autism and gluten". Clinical Therapeutics (Review). 35 (5): 578–583. doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2013.04.011. PMID 23688532. At this time, the studies attempting to treat symptoms of autism with diet have not been sufficient to support the general institution of a gluten-free or other diet for all children with autism. There may be a subgroup of patients who might benefit from a gluten-free diet, but the symptom or testing profile of these candidates remains unclear.
Vaccines and autism:Doja A, Roberts W (November 2006). "Immunizations and autism: a review of the literature". The Canadian Journal of Neurological Sciences. Le Journal Canadien des Sciences Neurologiques. 33 (4): 341–346. doi:10.1017/s031716710000528x. PMID 17168158.Gerber JS, Offit PA (February 2009). "Vaccines and autism: a tale of shifting hypotheses". Clinical Infectious Diseases. 48 (4): 456–461. doi:10.1086/596476. PMC 2908388. PMID 19128068.Gross L (May 2009). "A broken trust: lessons from the vaccine--autism wars". PLOS Biology. 7 (5): e1000114. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1000114. PMC 2682483. PMID 19478850.Paul R (June 2009). "Parents ask: Am I risking autism if I vaccinate my children?". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 39 (6): 962–963. doi:10.1007/s10803-009-0739-y. PMID 19363650. S2CID 34467853.Poland GA, Jacobson RM (January 2011). "The age-old struggle against the antivaccinationists". The New England Journal of Medicine. 364 (2): 97–99. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1010594. PMID 21226573.
^ AU-TI (2021). "A New Autistic Pride Flag Has Suddenly Appeared & It's Amazing". AU-TI.
Markram K, Markram H (21 December 2010). "The intense world theory - a unifying theory of the neurobiology of autism". Frontiers in Human Neuroscience (Review). 4: 224. doi:10.3389/fnhum.2010.00224. PMC 3010743. PMID 21191475. The proposed neuropathology is hyper-functioning of local neural microcircuits, best characterized by hyper-reactivity and hyper-plasticity. Such hyper-functional microcircuits are speculated to become autonomous and memory trapped leading to the core cognitive consequences of hyper-perception, hyper-attention, hyper-memory and hyper-emotionality. The theory is centered on the neocortex and the amygdala, but could potentially be applied to all brain regions. (...) This may lead to obsessively detailed information processing of fragments of the world and an involuntarily and systematic decoupling of the autist from what becomes a painfully intense world.
Markkanen E, Meyer U, Dianov GL (June 2016). "DNA Damage and Repair in Schizophrenia and Autism: Implications for Cancer Comorbidity and Beyond". International Journal of Molecular Sciences. 17 (6): 856. doi:10.3390/ijms17060856. PMC 4926390. PMID 27258260.
^ Rødgaard EM, Jensen K, Vergnes JN, Soulières I, Mottron L (August 2019). "Temporal Changes in Effect Sizes of Studies Comparing Individuals With and Without Autism: A Meta-analysis". JAMA Psychiatry. 76 (11): 1124–1132. doi:10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2019.1956. PMC 6704749. PMID 31433441.
Rapin I, Tuchman RF (October 2008). "Autism: definition, neurobiology, screening, diagnosis". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 55 (5): 1129–46, viii. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2008.07.005. PMID 18929056.
Minshawi NF, Hurwitz S, Fodstad JC, Biebl S, Morriss DH, McDougle CJ (April 2014). "The association between self-injurious behaviors and autism spectrum disorders". Psychology Research and Behavior Management. 7: 125–36. doi:10.2147/PRBM.S44635. PMC 3990505. PMID 24748827.
Oswald DP, Sonenklar NA (June 2007). "Medication use among children with autism spectrum disorders". Journal of Child and Adolescent Psychopharmacology. 17 (3): 348–355. doi:10.1089/cap.2006.17303. PMID 17630868.
Goldberg D (January 2010). "The classification of mental disorder: a simpler system for DSM–V and ICD–11". Advances in Psychiatric Treatment. 16 (1): 14–19. doi:10.1192/apt.bp.109.007120.
World Autism Awareness Day was established by the United Nations in 2007. Lighting buildings with blue light at night is a common means of awareness raising on this day. Autism Speaks has embraced it.
"The Diagnosis of Autism: From Kanner to DSM-III to DSM-5 and Beyond"
Its fifth edition, DSM-5, released in May 2013, was the first to define ASD as a single diagnosis,[33] which is still the case in the DSM-5-TR.[34] ASD encompasses previous diagnoses, including Asperger syndrome, childhood disintegrative disorder, PDD-NOS, and the range of diagnoses that included the word autism.[35] Rather than distinguishing among these diagnoses, the DSM-5 and DSM-5-TR adopt a dimensional approach to diagnosing disorders that fall underneath the autism spectrum umbrella in one diagnostic category. Within this category, the DSM-5 and the DSM include a framework that differentiates each individual by dimensions of symptom severity, as well as by associated features (i.e., the presence of other disorders or factors that likely contribute to the symptoms, other neurodevelopmental or mental disorders, intellectual disability, or language impairment).[34] The symptom domains are social communication and restricted, repetitive behaviors, with the option of a separate severity—the negative impact of the symptoms on the individual—being specified for each domain, rather than an overall severity.[36] Before the DSM-5, the DSM separated social deficits and communication deficits into two domains.[37] Further, the DSM-5 changed to an onset age in the early developmental period, with a note that symptoms may manifest later when social demands exceed capabilities, rather than the previous, more restricted three years of age.[38] These changes remain in the DSM-5-TR.[34]
^ Spencer JP, Trondsen Pawlowski RH, Thomas S (June 2017). "Vaccine Adverse Events: Separating Myth from Reality". American Family Physician. 95 (12): 786–794. PMID 28671426.
Gerber JS, Offit PA (February 2009). "Vaccines and autism: a tale of shifting hypotheses". Clinical Infectious Diseases. 48 (4): 456–461. doi:10.1086/596476. PMC 2908388. PMID 19128068.
"HP Australia and Dept of Human Services join the Dandelion Program". www.arnnet.com.au. Retrieved 8 February 2023.
A practical guide to autism: what every parent, family member, and teacher needs to know
"Are there alternative adaptive strategies to human pro-sociality? The role of collaborative morality in the emergence of personality variation and autistic traits"
Harrop C (August 2015). "Evidence-based, parent-mediated interventions for young children with autism spectrum disorder: The case of restricted and repetitive behaviors". Autism. 19 (6): 662–72. doi:10.1177/1362361314545685. PMID 25186943. S2CID 32326472.
Rumayor CB, Thrasher AM (November 2017). "Reflections on Recent Research Into Animal-Assisted Interventions in the Military and Beyond". Current Psychiatry Reports. 19 (12): 110. doi:10.1007/s11920-017-0861-z. PMID 29177710. S2CID 207338873.
"Behaviour management problems as predictors of psychotropic medication and use of psychiatric services in adults with autism"
Abrahams BS, Geschwind DH (May 2008). "Advances in autism genetics: on the threshold of a new neurobiology". Nature Reviews. Genetics. 9 (5): 341–355. doi:10.1038/nrg2346. PMC 2756414. PMID 18414403.
^ Kinney DK, Munir KM, Crowley DJ, Miller AM (October 2008). "Prenatal stress and risk for autism". Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews. 32 (8): 1519–1532. doi:10.1016/j.neubiorev.2008.06.004. PMC 2632594. PMID 18598714.
^ "World Autism Awareness Day, 2 April". United Nations. Retrieved 17 November 2015.
Autism's symptoms result from maturation-related changes in various systems of the brain.[157] How autism occurs is not yet well understood. Its mechanism can be divided into two areas: the pathophysiology of brain structures and processes associated with autism, and the neuropsychological linkages between brain structures and behaviors.[157] The behaviors appear to have multiple pathophysiologies.[158]
Volkmar F, Cook EH, Pomeroy J, Realmuto G, Tanguay P (December 1999). "Practice parameters for the assessment and treatment of children, adolescents, and adults with autism and other pervasive developmental disorders. American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Working Group on Quality Issues". Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. 38 (12 Suppl): 32S–54S. doi:10.1016/s0890-8567(99)80003-3. PMID 10624084.
^ Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology, Taylor & Francis, ISSN 1537-4416, Wikidata Q15767686
^ Tager-Flusberg H (2010). "The origins of social impairments in autism spectrum disorder: studies of infants at risk". Neural Networks. 23 (8–9): 1072–6. doi:10.1016/j.neunet.2010.07.008. PMC 2956843. PMID 20800990.
Emily Harrison (25 January 2021). "Autism Myth #6: People with Autism Don't Have Empathy". Retrieved 5 January 2023.
Betancur C, Sakurai T, Buxbaum JD (July 2009). "The emerging role of synaptic cell-adhesion pathways in the pathogenesis of autism spectrum disorders" (PDF). Trends in Neurosciences. 32 (7): 402–412. doi:10.1016/j.tins.2009.04.003. PMID 19541375. S2CID 8644511.
Reichow B, Hume K, Barton EE, Boyd BA (May 2018). "Early intensive behavioral intervention (EIBI) for young children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD)". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 5 (10): CD009260. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD009260.pub3. PMC 6494600. PMID 29742275.
"Mind the gap: What is missing in the autism research agenda?". University of Birmingham. Retrieved 3 February 2023.
^ Goldberg D (January 2010). "The classification of mental disorder: a simpler system for DSM–V and ICD–11". Advances in Psychiatric Treatment. 16 (1): 14–19. doi:10.1192/apt.bp.109.007120.
In general, neuroanatomical studies support the concept that autism may involve a combination of brain enlargement in some areas and reduction in others.[164] These studies suggest that autism may be caused by abnormal neuronal growth and pruning during the early stages of prenatal and postnatal brain development, leaving some areas of the brain with too many neurons and other areas with too few neurons.[165] Some research has reported an overall brain enlargement in autism, while others suggest abnormalities in several areas of the brain, including the frontal lobe, the mirror neuron system, the limbic system, the temporal lobe, and the corpus callosum.[166][167]
Matson JL, Dempsey T, Fodstad JC (November 2009). "The effect of Autism Spectrum Disorders on adaptive independent living skills in adults with severe intellectual disability". Research in Developmental Disabilities. Elsevier. 30 (6): 1203–1211. doi:10.1016/j.ridd.2009.04.001. eISSN 1873-3379. PMID 19450950.
^ Baker JP (September 2013). "Autism at 70--redrawing the boundaries" (PDF). The New England Journal of Medicine. 369 (12): 1089–1091. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1306380. PMID 24047057. S2CID 44613078. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 March 2019.
^ a b Maugh II, Thomas H. (26 November 2006). "Obituaries: Bernard Rimland, 78; Author was the father of modern autism research". Los Angeles Times. No. Home Edition. Los Angeles, California. p. B.14. Retrieved 6 May 2018.
^ Wing L (February 1981). "Asperger's syndrome: a clinical account". Psychological Medicine. 11 (1): 115–129. doi:10.1017/S0033291700053332. PMID 7208735. S2CID 16046498. Archived from the original on 17 August 2007. Retrieved 15 August 2007.
^ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (31 March 2022). "Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring (ADDM) Network". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 4 April 2022.
^ Warren Z, Veenstra-VanderWeele J, Stone W,et al. (April 2011). Therapies for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorders (Report No. 11-EHC029-EF). Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US). p. 8. PMID 21834171. Hyperbaric therapy, in which oxygen is administered in special chambers that maintain a higher air pressure, has shown possible effects in other chronic neurologic conditions and has also undergone preliminary exploration in ASDs.[needs update]
American Jim Sinclair is credited as the first person to communicate the anti-cure or autism rights perspective in the late 1980s.[387] In 1992, Sinclair co-founded the Autism Network International, an organization that publishes newsletters "written by and for autistic people." This grew into the autism rights movement.
^ Shapiro J (26 June 2006). "Autism Movement Seeks Acceptance, Not Cures". NPR. Retrieved 10 November 2015.
^ Losh M, Adolphs R, Piven J (2011). "The Broad Autism Phenotype". Autism Spectrum Disorders. Oxford University Press. pp. 457–476. doi:10.1093/med/9780195371826.003.0031. ISBN 978-0-19-996521-2.
^ "Autism At Work". Autism At Work. Retrieved 5 January 2023.
Autism spectrumAsperger syndromeAutismFragile XPervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specifiedChildhood disintegrative disorderRett syndrome
Ratner P (10 July 2016). "Should Autism Be Cured or Is "Curing" Offensive?". Big Think. Retrieved 16 June 2019.
^ Baranek GT (October 2002). "Efficacy of sensory and motor interventions for children with autism". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 32 (5): 397–422. doi:10.1023/A:1020541906063. PMID 12463517. S2CID 16449130.
The American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry recommend routinely screening autism symptoms in young children[203]
Plaisted Grant K, Davis G (May 2009). "Perception and apperception in autism: rejecting the inverse assumption". Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological Sciences. 364 (1522): 1393–1398. doi:10.1098/rstb.2009.0001. PMC 2677593. PMID 19528022.
Filipek PA, Accardo PJ, Baranek GT, Cook EH, Dawson G, Gordon B,et al. (December 1999). "The screening and diagnosis of autistic spectrum disorders". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 29 (6): 439–484. doi:10.1023/A:1021943802493. PMID 10638459. S2CID 145113684. This paper represents a consensus of representatives from nine professional and four parent organizations in the US.
Waterhouse L (December 2008). "Autism overflows: increasing prevalence and proliferating theories". Neuropsychology Review. 18 (4): 273–286. doi:10.1007/s11065-008-9074-x. PMID 19015994. S2CID 8863638.
^ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (25 March 2020). "What is Autism Spectrum Disorder?". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 24 October 2021.
Baron-Cohen S (10 November 2020). The pattern seekers: how autism drives human invention. ISBN 978-1-5416-4713-8. OCLC 1204602315.
Ospina MB, Krebs Seida J, Clark B, Karkhaneh M, Hartling L, Tjosvold L,et al. (2008). "Behavioural and developmental interventions for autism spectrum disorder: a clinical systematic review". PLOS ONE. 3 (11): e3755. Bibcode:2008PLoSO...3.3755O. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0003755. PMC 2582449. PMID 19015734.
Bailin A (6 June 2019). "Clearing Up Some Misconceptions about Neurodiversity". Scientific American Blog Network. Nature America, Inc. Archived from the original on 29 June 2019. Retrieved 17 March 2022.
^ Wing L, Potter D (2002). "The epidemiology of autistic spectrum disorders: is the prevalence rising?". Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews. 8 (3): 151–161. doi:10.1002/mrdd.10029. PMID 12216059.
The immune system is thought to be the intermediary that modulates the influence of gut bacteria on the brain. Some ASD individuals have a dysfunctional immune system with higher numbers of some types of immune cells, biochemical messengers and modulators, and autoimmune antibodies. Increased inflammatory biomarkers correlate with increased severity of ASD symptoms and there is some evidence to support a state of chronic brain inflammation in ASD.[171]
Pervasive developmental disorderHigh-functioning autismLow-functioning autismClassic autismAsperger syndromePervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specifiedChildhood disintegrative disorder
British researcher Lorna Wing of the Institute of Psychiatry, London used the term "Asperger's syndrome" in 1976, identifying that there were many people with autistic traits who had good language skills.[371] Considering the wide difference of autistic traits in different people, Wing and Judith Gould coined the term "autism spectrum" in their 1979 paper Severe impairments of social interaction and associated abnormalities in children: Epidemiology and classification.[372][373]
Constantino JN, Charman T (March 2016). "Diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder: reconciling the syndrome, its diverse origins, and variation in expression" (PDF). The Lancet. Neurology. 15 (3): 279–91. doi:10.1016/s1474-4422(15)00151-9. PMID 26497771. S2CID 206162618.
^ a b c Solomon A (25 May 2008). "The autism rights movement". New York. ISSN 0028-7369. Archived from the original on 27 May 2008. Retrieved 27 May 2008.
^ a b Lawson W (2001). Understanding and Working With the Spectrum of Autism: An Insider's View. London UK, & Philadelphia PA: Jessica Kingsley Publishers. pp. 33. ISBN 978-1853029714.
Piven J, Palmer P, Jacobi D, Childress D, Arndt S (February 1997). "Broader autism phenotype: evidence from a family history study of multiple-incidence autism families". The American Journal of Psychiatry. 154 (2): 185–190. doi:10.1176/ajp.154.2.185. PMID 9016266.
^ Baird G, Cass H, Slonims V (August 2003). "Diagnosis of autism". BMJ. 327 (7413): 488–493. doi:10.1136/bmj.327.7413.488. PMC 188387. PMID 12946972.
"The role of the neurobiologist in redefining the diagnosis of autism"
In 2003, British child psychologist Elizabeth Newson at the University of Nottingham published an article in the Archives of Disease in Childhood journal arguing that pathological demand avoidance (PDA) be recognised as a unique profile within the autism spectrum.[390] She had first seen the pattern of PDA in children in 1980.[391] She believed that autistic people with pronounced PDA symptoms tend to behave quite differently to those that don't.
Baker JP (September 2013). "Autism at 70--redrawing the boundaries" (PDF). The New England Journal of Medicine. 369 (12): 1089–1091. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1306380. PMID 24047057. S2CID 44613078. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 March 2019.
According to all available evidence, autism has occurred in humans ever since the species evolved. However, it took a large period of time before the specific patterns of autistic behaviour were recognised and documented.
While the DSM and ICD are greatly influenced by each other, there are also differences. For example, Rett syndrome was included in ASD in the DSM-5, but in the ICD-11 it was excluded and placed in the chapter on Developmental Anomalies. The ICD and the DSM change over time, and there has been collaborative work toward a convergence of the two since 1980 (when DSM-III was published and ICD-9 was current), including more rigorous biological assessment—in place of historical experience—and a simplification of the classification system.[27][28][29][30]
^ Mandy W, Lai MC (March 2016). "Annual Research Review: The role of the environment in the developmental psychopathology of autism spectrum condition". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 57 (3): 271–292. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12501. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMID 26782158.
^ Mezzich JE (2002). "International surveys on the use of ICD-10 and related diagnostic systems". Psychopathology. 35 (2–3): 72–75. doi:10.1159/000065122. PMID 12145487. S2CID 35857872.
^ Satterstrom FK, Kosmicki JA, Wang J, Breen MS, De Rubeis S, An JY,et al. (February 2020). "Large-Scale Exome Sequencing Study Implicates Both Developmental and Functional Changes in the Neurobiology of Autism". Cell. 180 (3): 568–584.e23. doi:10.1016/j.cell.2019.12.036. PMC 7250485. PMID 31981491.
"Clinical assessment and management of toddlers with suspected autism spectrum disorder: insights from studies of high-risk infants"
Barnhill GP (2007). "Outcomes in adults with Asperger syndrome". Focus on Autism and Other Developmental Disabilities. 22 (2): 116–126. doi:10.1177/10883576070220020301. S2CID 1355689.
In May 2013, the DSM-5 was released. It combined "autistic disorder," "Asperger's syndrome", "CDD" and "PDD-NOS" into the broader concept of "autism spectrum disorder" (ASD). It also grouped the symptoms into two groups - impaired social communication and/or interaction, and restricted and/or repetitive behaviors.[397] The new definition was narrower than the collective definitions of its DSM-IV predecessors had been, reducing the number of neurodiverse people covered by it.
4Pathophysiology											Toggle Pathophysiology subsection																					4.1Brain connectivity																											4.2Neuropathology																											4.3Gut-immune-brain axis																											4.4Social brain interconnectivity																											4.5Temporal lobe																											4.6Mitochondria																											4.7Serotonin
^ Matson JL, Dempsey T, Fodstad JC (November 2009). "The effect of Autism Spectrum Disorders on adaptive independent living skills in adults with severe intellectual disability". Research in Developmental Disabilities. Elsevier. 30 (6): 1203–1211. doi:10.1016/j.ridd.2009.04.001. eISSN 1873-3379. PMID 19450950.
"The nature of flag power: How flags entail dominance, subordination, and social solidarity.
Penn HE (February 2006). "Neurobiological correlates of autism: a review of recent research". Child Neuropsychology. 12 (1): 57–79. doi:10.1080/09297040500253546. PMID 16484102. S2CID 46119993.
The age at which ASD is diagnosed varies. Sometimes ASD can be diagnosed as early as 18 months, however, diagnosis of ASD before the age of two years may not be reliable.[180] Diagnosis becomes increasingly stable over the first three years of life. For example, a one-year-old who meets diagnostic criteria for ASD is less likely than a three-year-old to continue to do so a few years later.[190] Additionally, age of diagnosis may depend on the severity of ASD, with more severe forms of ASD more likely to be diagnosed at an earlier age.[191] Issues with access to healthcare such as cost of appointments or delays in making appointments often lead to delays in the diagnosis of ASD.[192] In the UK the National Autism Plan for Children recommends at most 30 weeks from first concern to completed diagnosis and assessment, though few cases are handled that quickly in practice.[182] Lack of access to appropriate medical care, broadening diagnostic criteria and increased awareness surrounding ASD in recent years has resulted in an increased number of individuals receiving a diagnosis of ASD as adults. Diagnosis of ASD in adults poses unique challenges because it still relies on an accurate developmental history and because autistic adults sometimes learn coping strategies (known as 'camouflaging') which may make it more difficult to obtain a diagnosis.[193]
^ Vaccines and autism:Doja A, Roberts W (November 2006). "Immunizations and autism: a review of the literature". The Canadian Journal of Neurological Sciences. Le Journal Canadien des Sciences Neurologiques. 33 (4): 341–346. doi:10.1017/s031716710000528x. PMID 17168158.Gerber JS, Offit PA (February 2009). "Vaccines and autism: a tale of shifting hypotheses". Clinical Infectious Diseases. 48 (4): 456–461. doi:10.1086/596476. PMC 2908388. PMID 19128068.Gross L (May 2009). "A broken trust: lessons from the vaccine--autism wars". PLOS Biology. 7 (5): e1000114. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1000114. PMC 2682483. PMID 19478850.Paul R (June 2009). "Parents ask: Am I risking autism if I vaccinate my children?". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 39 (6): 962–963. doi:10.1007/s10803-009-0739-y. PMID 19363650. S2CID 34467853.Poland GA, Jacobson RM (January 2011). "The age-old struggle against the antivaccinationists". The New England Journal of Medicine. 364 (2): 97–99. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1010594. PMID 21226573.
There is tentative evidence that gender dysphoria occurs more frequently in autistic people (see Autism and LGBT identities).[88][89] As well as that, a 2021 anonymized online survey of 16–90 year-olds revealed that autistic males are more likely to identify as bisexual, while autistic females are more likely to identify as homosexual.[90]
Lainhart J (1999). "Psychiatric problems in individuals with autism, their parents and siblings". International Review of Psychiatry. 11 (4): 278–298. doi:10.1080/09540269974177.
Lintas C, Persico AM (January 2009). "Autistic phenotypes and genetic testing: state-of-the-art for the clinical geneticist". Journal of Medical Genetics. 46 (1): 1–8. doi:10.1136/jmg.2008.060871. PMC 2603481. PMID 18728070.
^ Tidmarsh L, Volkmar FR (September 2003). "Diagnosis and epidemiology of autism spectrum disorders". Canadian Journal of Psychiatry. 48 (8): 517–525. doi:10.1177/070674370304800803. PMID 14574827. S2CID 38070709.
^ "Autism spectrum disorder – childhood disintegrative disorder: MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia". medlineplus.gov. Retrieved 8 May 2020.
^ Wing L, Gould J, Gillberg C (1 March 2011). "Autism spectrum disorders in the DSM-V: better or worse than the DSM-IV?". Research in Developmental Disabilities. Elsevier. 32 (2): 768–773. doi:10.1016/j.ridd.2010.11.003. eISSN 1873-3379. ISSN 0891-4222. PMID 21208775.
"Multiple rare variants in the etiology of autism spectrum disorders"
Bird G, Cook R (July 2013). "Mixed emotions: the contribution of alexithymia to the emotional symptoms of autism". Translational Psychiatry. 3 (7): e285. doi:10.1038/tp.2013.61. PMC 3731793. PMID 23880881.
Norwegian-American psychologist Ivar Lovaas completed the "UCLA Young Autism Project" in 1987, defining a new method of ABA.[378] It is sometimes called the "Lovaas method/model/program" and sometimes the "UCLA model/intervention". It has become the primary form of Early Intensive Behavior Intervention (EIBI), and now is often referred to by that name as well.
^ Coplan J, Jawad AF (July 2005). "Modeling clinical outcome of children with autistic spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. 116 (1): 117–22. doi:10.1542/peds.2004-1118. PMID 15995041. S2CID 8440775.
Ssucharewa, G.G. "Die schizoiden Psychopathien im Kindesalter" (PDF) (in German). Retrieved 2 February 2023.
^ a b Lugnegård T, Hallerbäck MU, Gillberg C (May 2012). "Personality disorders and autism spectrum disorders: what are the connections?". Comprehensive Psychiatry. 53 (4): 333–40. doi:10.1016/j.comppsych.2011.05.014. PMID 21821235.
Robison JE (2020). "My Time with Autism Speaks".In Kapp SK (ed.). Autistic Community and the Neurodiversity Movement. Autistic Community and the Neurodiversity Movement: Stories from the Frontline. Singapore: Springer. pp. 221–232. doi:10.1007/978-981-13-8437-0_16. ISBN 978-981-13-8437-0. S2CID 210496353. Retrieved 23 April 2022.
Levy SE, Mandell DS, Schultz RT (November 2009). "Autism". Lancet. 374 (9701): 1627–1638. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61376-3. PMC 2863325. PMID 19819542. (Erratum: doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61666-8,  [1])
NeuroTribes: The Legacy of Autism and the Future of Neurodiversity
^ a b Ishikawa, Gen; Ichihashi, Kayo (March 2007). "[Autistic psychopathy or pervasive developmental disorder: how has Asperger's syndrome changed in the past sixty years?]". Nihon Rinsho. Japanese Journal of Clinical Medicine. 65 (3): 409–418. ISSN 0047-1852. PMID 17354550.
McGee M (August 2012). "Neurodiversity". Contexts. 11 (3): 12–13. doi:10.1177/1536504212456175. S2CID 220720495.
^ Markkanen E, Meyer U, Dianov GL (June 2016). "DNA Damage and Repair in Schizophrenia and Autism: Implications for Cancer Comorbidity and Beyond". International Journal of Molecular Sciences. 17 (6): 856. doi:10.3390/ijms17060856. PMC 4926390. PMID 27258260.
Sigman M, Capps L (2002). Children with Autism: A Developmental Perspective. Cambridge: Harvard University Press. pp. 178–179. ISBN 978-0-674-05313-7.
^ a b Ratner P (10 July 2016). "Should Autism Be Cured or Is "Curing" Offensive?". Big Think. Retrieved 16 June 2019.
Spikins P, Wright B, Hodgson D (1 October 2016). "Are there alternative adaptive strategies to human pro-sociality? The role of collaborative morality in the emergence of personality variation and autistic traits". Time and Mind. 9 (4): 289–313. doi:10.1080/1751696X.2016.1244949. ISSN 1751-696X. S2CID 151820168.
^ Pezzimenti, F.; Han, G. T.; Vasa, R. A.; Gotham, K. (2019). "Depression in Youth with Autism Spectrum Disorder". Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics of North America. 28 (3): 397–409. doi:10.1016/j.chc.2019.02.009. PMC 6512853. PMID 31076116.
Chambres P, Auxiette C, Vansingle C, Gil S (August 2008). "Adult attitudes toward behaviors of a six-year-old boy with autism". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 38 (7): 1320–1327. doi:10.1007/s10803-007-0519-5. PMID 18297387. S2CID 19769173.
Koenig K, Tsatsanis KD, Volkmar FR (2001). "Neurobiology and Genetics of Autism: A Developmental Perspective".In Burack JA, Charman T, Yirmiya N, Zelazo PR (eds.). The development of autism: perspectives from theory and research. Mahwah, N.J.: L. Erlbaum. pp. 73–92. ISBN 9780805832457. OCLC 806185029.
Current research suggests that genes that increase susceptibility to ASD are ones that control protein synthesis in neuronal cells in response to cell needs, activity and adhesion of neuronal cells, synapse formation and remodeling, and excitatory to inhibitory neurotransmitter balance. Therefore, despite up to 1000 different genes thought to contribute to increased risk of ASD, all of them eventually affect normal neural development and connectivity between different functional areas of the brain in a similar manner that is characteristic of an ASD brain. Some of these genes are known to modulate production of the GABA neurotransmitter which is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the nervous system. These GABA-related genes are under-expressed in an ASD brain. On the other hand, genes controlling expression of glial and immune cells in the brain e.g. astrocytes and microglia, respectively, are over-expressed which correlates with increased number of glial and immune cells found in postmortem ASD brains. Some genes under investigation in ASD pathophysiology are those that affect the mTOR signaling pathway which supports cell growth and survival.[117]
Weir E, Allison C, Baron-Cohen S (November 2021). "The sexual health, orientation, and activity of autistic adolescents and adults". Autism Research. 14 (11): 2342–2354. doi:10.17863/CAM.74771. PMID 34536071.
"Autism". World Health Organization. 30 March 2022. Retrieved 8 May 2022.
^ Benevides TW, Shore SM, Andresen ML, Caplan R, Cook B, Gassner DL,et al. (August 2020). "Interventions to address health outcomes among autistic adults: A systematic review". Autism. 24 (6): 1345–1359. doi:10.1177/1362361320913664. PMC 7787674. PMID 32390461.
^ Loftus Y (24 November 2021). "CEASE Therapy for Autism: the Controversy of a "Cure"". Autism Parenting Magazine. Autism Parenting Magazine. Archived from the original on 22 September 2022. Retrieved 22 September 2022.
Brown EA, Lautz JD, Davis TR, Gniffke EP, VanSchoiack AA, Neier SC,et al. (2018). "Clustering the autisms using glutamate synapse protein interaction networks from cortical and hippocampal tissue of seven mouse models". Molecular Autism. 9 (48): 48. doi:10.1186/s13229-018-0229-1. PMC 6139139. PMID 30237867.
"F84. Pervasive developmental disorders". ICD-10: International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems: Tenth Revision. World Health Organization. 2007. Archived from the original on 21 April 2013. Retrieved 10 October 2009.
Happé F (1999). "Understanding assets and deficits in autism: why success is more interesting than failure" (PDF). Psychologist. 12 (11): 540–547. Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 May 2012.
Crespi B, Badcock C (June 2008). "Psychosis and autism as diametrical disorders of the social brain" (PDF). The Behavioral and Brain Sciences. 31 (3): 241–61, discussion 261–320. doi:10.1017/S0140525X08004214. PMID 18578904.
Fewer and smaller Purkinje neurons in the cerebellum. New research suggest a role of the cerebellum in emotional processing and language.[117]
The quality of research for early intensive behavioral intervention (EIBI)—a treatment procedure incorporating over thirty hours per week of the structured type of ABA that is carried out with very young children—is currently low, and more vigorous research designs with larger sample sizes are needed.[261] Two theoretical frameworks outlined for early childhood intervention include structured and naturalistic ABA interventions, and developmental social pragmatic models (DSP).[249] One interventional strategy utilizes a parent training model, which teaches parents how to implement various ABA and DSP techniques, allowing for parents to disseminate interventions themselves.[249] Various DSP programs have been developed to explicitly deliver intervention systems through at-home parent implementation. Despite the recent development of parent training models, these interventions have demonstrated effectiveness in numerous studies, being evaluated as a probable efficacious mode of treatment.[249] Early, intensive ABA therapy has demonstrated effectiveness in enhancing communication and adaptive functioning in preschool children;[247] it is also well-established for improving the intellectual performance of that age group.[247]
Powell K (August 2004). "Opening a window to the autistic brain". PLOS Biology. 2 (8): E267. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.0020267. PMC 509312. PMID 15314667.
Zwaigenbaum L (October 2001). "Autistic spectrum disorders in preschool children". Canadian Family Physician. 47 (10): 2037–42. PMC 2018435. PMID 11723598.
The influential book Asperger’s Syndrome: A guide for parents and professionals was published by British-Australian psychologist Tony Attwood in 1998. Attwood went on to publish widely on autistic topics. A survey of Ontario autism support workers in 2011 found that 52% had support programs influenced by him.[381]
"WHO releases new International Classification of Diseases (ICD 11)". World Health Organisation (Press Release). Retrieved 29 October 2021.
The prevalence of regression varies depending on the definition used.[310] If regression is defined strictly to require loss of language, it is less common; if defined more broadly, to include cases where language is preserved but social interaction is diminished, it is more common.[310] Although regressive autism is often thought to be a less common (compared with gradual course of autism onset described above), this remains an area of ongoing debate;[311] some evidence suggests that a pattern of regressive autism may be more common than previously thought.[312] There are some who believe that regressive autism is simply early-onset autism which was recognized at a later date. Researchers have conducted studies to determine whether regressive autism is a distinct subset of ASD, but the results of these studies have contradicted one another.[125]
Research into causes has been hampered by the inability to identify biologically meaningful subgroups within the autistic population[94] and by the traditional boundaries between the disciplines of psychiatry, psychology, neurology and pediatrics.[95] Newer technologies such as fMRI and diffusion tensor imaging can help identify biologically relevant phenotypes (observable traits) that can be viewed on brain scans, to help further neurogenetic studies of autism;[96] one example is lowered activity in the fusiform face area of the brain, which is associated with impaired perception of people versus objects.[97] It has been proposed to classify autism using genetics as well as behavior.[98] (For more, see Brett Abrahams)
Cerase A, Young AN, Ruiz NB, Buness A, Sant GM, Arnold M,et al. (April 2021). "Chd8 regulates X chromosome inactivation in mouse through fine-tuning control of Xist expression". Communications Biology. 4 (1): 485. doi:10.1038/s42003-021-01945-1. PMC 8050208. PMID 33859315.
^ a b c d .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Bonati M, Cartabia M, Clavenna A (January 2022). "Still too much delay in recognition of autism spectrum disorder". Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences. Cambridge University Press. 31 (e1): e1. doi:10.1017/S2045796021000822. LCCN 2011243374. OCLC 727338545. PMC 8786613. PMID 35012703. S2CID 245851335.
ICD-11 was produced by professionals from 55 countries out of the 90 involved and is the most widely used reference worldwide.
DSM publishers, the American Psychiatric Association, said that "The revised diagnosis represents a new, more accurate, and medically and scientifically useful way of diagnosing individuals with autism-related disorders." It also noted that the conditions that the new ASD condition replaced "were not consistently applied across different clinics and treatment centers."[398]
Kinney DK, Munir KM, Crowley DJ, Miller AM (October 2008). "Prenatal stress and risk for autism". Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews. 32 (8): 1519–1532. doi:10.1016/j.neubiorev.2008.06.004. PMC 2632594. PMID 18598714.
Maternal nutrition and inflammation during preconception and pregnancy influences fetal neurodevelopment. Intrauterine growth restriction is associated with ASD, in both term and preterm infants.[126] Maternal inflammatory and autoimmune diseases may damage fetal tissues, aggravating a genetic problem or damaging the nervous system.[127]
^ Tantam D (December 1988). "Lifelong eccentricity and social isolation. II: Asperger's syndrome or schizoid personality disorder?". The British Journal of Psychiatry. 153: 783–91. doi:10.1192/bjp.153.6.783. PMID 3256377. S2CID 39433805.
^ a b c Johnson CP, Myers SM (November 2007). "Identification and evaluation of children with autism spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. American Academy of Pediatrics. 120 (5): 1183–1215. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-2361. PMID 17967920. S2CID 218028., cited in Blumberg SJ, Zablotsky B, Avila RM, Colpe LJ, Pringle BA, Kogan MD (October 2016). "Diagnosis lost: Differences between children who had and who currently have an autism spectrum disorder diagnosis". Autism. 20 (7): 783–795. doi:10.1177/1362361315607724. PMC 4838550. PMID 26489772.
Prominent abnormal connectivity in the frontal and occipital regions. In autistic individuals low connectivity in the frontal cortex was observed from infancy through adulthood. This is in contrast to long-range connectivity which is high in infancy and low in adulthood in ASD.[169] Abnormal neural organization is also observed in the Broca's area which is important for speech production.[117]
Rogers SJ, Vismara LA (January 2008). "Evidence-based comprehensive treatments for early autism". Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 37 (1): 8–38. doi:10.1080/15374410701817808. ISSN 1537-4416. PMC 2943764. PMID 18444052.
^ a b Volkmar F, Cook EH, Pomeroy J, Realmuto G, Tanguay P (December 1999). "Practice parameters for the assessment and treatment of children, adolescents, and adults with autism and other pervasive developmental disorders. American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Working Group on Quality Issues". Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. 38 (12 Suppl): 32S–54S. doi:10.1016/s0890-8567(99)80003-3. PMID 10624084.
^ "NIMH » Autism Spectrum Disorder". National Institute of Mental Health (US). National Institutes of Health (US). Retrieved 8 April 2021.
^ Kan CC, Buitelaar JK, van der Gaag RJ (June 2008). "Autismespectrumstoornissen bij volwassenen" [Autism spectrum disorders in adults]. Nederlands Tijdschrift voor Geneeskunde (in Dutch). 152 (24): 1365–1369. PMID 18664213.
Families who care for an autistic child face added stress from a number of different causes.[67][441] Parents may struggle to understand the diagnosis and to find appropriate care options. Parents often take a negative view of the diagnosis, and may struggle emotionally.[442] More than half of parents over the age of 50 are still living with their child, as about 85% of autistic people have difficulties living independently.[443] Some studies also find decreased earning among parents who care for autistic children.[444][445] Siblings of children with ASD report greater admiration and less conflict with the affected sibling than siblings of unaffected children and were similar to siblings of children with Down syndrome in these aspects of the sibling relationship. However, they reported lower levels of closeness and intimacy than siblings of children with Down syndrome; siblings of individuals with ASD have greater risk of negative well-being and poorer sibling relationships as adults.[446]
"CHD8 regulates neurodevelopmental pathways associated with autism spectrum disorder in neural progenitors"
Chen JA, Peñagarikano O, Belgard TG, Swarup V, Geschwind DH (2015). "The emerging picture of autism spectrum disorder: genetics and pathology". Annu Rev Pathol (Review). 10: 111–44. doi:10.1146/annurev-pathol-012414-040405. PMID 25621659.
Pinel JP (2011). Biopsychology (8th ed.). Boston, Massachusetts: Pearson. p. 235. ISBN 978-0-205-03099-6. OCLC 1085798897.
Lambert N, Strebel P, Orenstein W, Icenogle J, Poland GA (June 2015). "Rubella". Lancet. 385 (9984): 2297–2307. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60539-0. PMC 4514442. PMID 25576992.
^ a b Wang X, Zhao J, Huang S, Chen S, Zhou T, Li Q,et al. (May 2021). "Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Autism Spectrum Disorders: A Systematic Review". Pediatrics. American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP). 147 (5). doi:10.1542/peds.2020-049880. PMID 33888566. S2CID 233370479.
The main goals of treatment are to lessen associated deficits and family distress, and to increase quality of life and functional independence. In general, higher IQs are correlated with greater responsiveness to treatment and improved treatment outcomes.[250][251] Behavioral, psychological, education, and/or skill-building interventions may be used to assist autistic people to learn life skills necessary for living independently,[252] as well as other social, communication, and language skills. Therapy also aims to reduce challenging behaviors and build upon strengths.[253]
^ a b Siafis S, Çıray O, Wu H, Schneider-Thoma J, Bighelli I, Krause M, Rodolico A, Ceraso A, Deste G, Huhn M, Fraguas D, San José Cáceres A, Mavridis D, Charman T, Murphy DG, Parellada M, Arango C, Leucht S (2022). "Pharmacological and dietary-supplement treatments for autism spectrum disorder: a systematic review and network meta-analysis". Molecular Autism. 13 (1): 10. doi:10.1186/s13229-022-00488-4. PMC 8896153. PMID 35246237.
Lefebvre A, Beggiato A, Bourgeron T, Toro R (July 2015). "Neuroanatomical Diversity of Corpus Callosum and Brain Volume in Autism: Meta-analysis, Analysis of the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange Project, and Simulation". Biological Psychiatry. 78 (2): 126–34. doi:10.1016/j.biopsych.2015.02.010. PMID 25850620. S2CID 8794474.
Lam J, Sutton P, Kalkbrenner A, Windham G, Halladay A, Koustas E,et al. (2016). "A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Multiple Airborne Pollutants and Autism Spectrum Disorder". PLOS ONE. 11 (9): e0161851. Bibcode:2016PLoSO..1161851L. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0161851. PMC 5031428. PMID 27653281.
^ McLeod S (6 April 2022). "Jean Piaget's Theory of Cognitive Development". Simply Psychology. Archived from the original on 1 June 2022. Retrieved 19 February 2019.
^ For example:US Preventive Services Task Force does not recommend universal screen of young children for autism due to poor evidence of benefits of this screening when parents and clinicians have no concerns about ASD. The major concern is a false-positive diagnosis that would burden a family with very time-consuming and financially demanding treatment interventions when it is not truly required. The Task Force also did not find any robust studies showing effectiveness of behavioral therapies in reducing ASD symptom severity.[203]American Academy of Pediatrics recommends ASD screening of all children between the ages if 18 and 24 months.[203] The AAP also recommends that children who screen positive for ASD be referred to treatment services without waiting for a comprehensive diagnostic workup[204]The American Academy of Family Physicians did not find sufficient evidence of benefit of universal early screening for ASD[203]The American Academy of Neurology and Child Neurology Society recommends general routine screening for delayed or abnormal development in children followed by screening for ASD only if indicated by the general developmental screening[203]The American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry recommend routinely screening autism symptoms in young children[203]
The relationship between ASD and schizophrenia remains a controversial subject under continued investigation, and recent meta-analyses have examined genetic, environmental, infectious, and immune risk factors that may be shared between the two conditions.[226][227][228] Oxidative stress, DNA damage and DNA repair have been postulated to play a role in the aetiopathology of both ASD and schizophrenia.[229]
^ Di Pietrantonj C, Rivetti A, Marchione P, Debalini MG, Demicheli V (November 2021). "Vaccines for measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella in children". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2021 (11): CD004407. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD004407.pub5. PMC 8607336. PMID 34806766.
^ Sugranyes G, Kyriakopoulos M, Corrigall R, Taylor E, Frangou S (2011). "Autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia: meta-analysis of the neural correlates of social cognition". PLOS ONE. 6 (10): e25322. Bibcode:2011PLoSO...625322S. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0025322. PMC 3187762. PMID 21998649.
Some ASD is associated with clearly genetic conditions, like fragile X syndrome; however, only around 2% of autistic people have fragile X.[71] Hypotheses from evolutionary psychiatry suggest that these genes persist because they are linked to human inventiveness, intelligence or systemising.[115][116]
"Psychosis and autism as diametrical disorders of the social brain"
^ a b Volkmar FR, Paul R, Pelphrey KA, Rogers SJ, eds. (2014). Handbook of Autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorders: Volume Two: Assessment, Interventions, and Policy. Vol. 2 (4th ed.). Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons. p. 301. ISBN 978-1-118-28220-5. LCCN 2013034363. OCLC 946133861. Retrieved 1 March 2019.
Asperger adopted Bleuler's term autistic psychopaths in a 1938 lecture,[356] and in a paper he published the same year. Asperger notably investigated a form of autism that was later known as Asperger syndrome.[351] His work first came to prominence among psychiatrists through the 1944 republishing of his paper Die „Autistischen Psychopathen” im Kindesalter.[357] It has been suggested that Asperger was likely aware of Sukhareva's work.[354]
^ Clarke J, van Amerom G (2007). "'Surplus suffering': differences between organizational understandings of Asperger's syndrome and those people who claim the 'disorder'". Disability & Society. 22 (7): 761–76. doi:10.1080/09687590701659618. S2CID 145736625.
Mash EJ, Barkley RA (2003). Child Psychopathology. New York: The Guilford Press. pp. 409–454. ISBN 9781572306097.
Matson JL, Dempsey T (2008). "Stereotypy in Adults with Autism Spectrum Disorders: Relationship and Diagnostic Fidelity". Journal of Developmental and Physical Disabilities, 20(2) 155–165. doi 10.1007/s10882-007-9086-0. S2CID 143874013.
American Psychiatric Association (18 May 2013). DSM-5. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. Arlington County. doi:10.1176/APPI.BOOKS.9780890425596. ISBN 978-0-89042-554-1. OCLC 830807378. OL 27587204M. Wikidata Q3064664.
Collins, Paul (6 February 2009). "Must-Geek TV: Is the world ready for an Asperger's sitcom?". Slate. www.slate.com. Archived from the original on 10 February 2009. Retrieved 14 April 2009.
Wing L (December 1997). "The autistic spectrum". Lancet. 350 (9093): 1761–1766. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(97)09218-0. PMID 9413479. S2CID 7165992.
^ "CDC estimates 1 in 68 school-aged children have autism; no change from previous estimate". CDC Newsroom. CDC. 31 March 2016. Retrieved 31 December 2019.
^ a b c Israelyan N, Margolis KG (June 2018). "Serotonin as a link between the gut-brain-microbiome axis in autism spectrum disorders". Pharmacological Research (Review). 132: 1–6. doi:10.1016/j.phrs.2018.03.020. PMC 6368356. PMID 29614380.
Autism spectrum disorder in adults: diagnosis and management, NICE, 14 June 2021, CG142, retrieved 24 October 2021
In October 2015, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) proposed new evidence-based recommendations for early interventions in ASD for children under 3.[260] These recommendations emphasize early involvement with both developmental and behavioral methods, support by and for parents and caregivers, and a focus on both the core and associated symptoms of ASD.[260] However, a Cochrane review found no evidence that early intensive behavioral intervention (EIBI) is effective in reducing behavioral problems associated with autism in most autistic children but did help improve IQ and language skills. The Cochrane review did acknowledge that this may be due to the low quality of studies currently available on EIBI and therefore providers should recommend EIBI based on their clinical judgement and the family's preferences. No adverse effects of EIBI treatment were found.[261] A meta-analysis in that same database indicates that due to the degrees of severity in ASD, there is variable responses to differing early ABA interventions.[262]
Opar A (24 April 2019). "In search of truce in the autism wars". Spectrum. Simons Foundation. Archived from the original on 3 May 2019. Retrieved 9 July 2022.
Rao M, Gershon MD (September 2016). "The bowel and beyond: the enteric nervous system in neurological disorders". Nature Reviews. Gastroenterology & Hepatology (Review). 13 (9): 517–528. doi:10.1038/nrgastro.2016.107. PMC 5005185. PMID 27435372. immune dysregulation, GI inflammation, malfunction of the ANS, genetic and metabolic activity of the microbiome, and dietary metabolites may contribute to brain dysfunction and neuroinflammation depending upon individual genetic vulnerability
^ a b c d e f g h Stichter JP, Riley-Tillman TC, Jimerson SR (December 2016). "Assessing, understanding, and supporting students with autism at school: Contemporary science, practice, and policy". School Psychology Quarterly. 31 (4): 443–449. doi:10.1037/spq0000184. PMID 27929316.
Tidmarsh L, Volkmar FR (September 2003). "Diagnosis and epidemiology of autism spectrum disorders". Canadian Journal of Psychiatry. 48 (8): 517–525. doi:10.1177/070674370304800803. PMID 14574827. S2CID 38070709.
^ "How to talk about autism". www.autism.org.uk. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
Unusual or atypical eating behavior occurs in about three-quarters of children with ASD, to the extent that it was formerly a diagnostic indicator.[77] Selectivity is the most common problem, although eating rituals and food refusal also occur.[87]
Popular American movie Rain Man was released in 1988. Its titular character was an autistic man. Bernard Rimland was consulted on how the character was portrayed. The movie did much to define public understanding of the condition.
"Screening and Diagnosis | Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) | NCBDDD"
Waterhouse L, Wing L, Spitzer R, Siegel B (December 1992). "Pervasive developmental disorders: from DSM-III to DSM-III-R". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 22 (4): 525–549. doi:10.1007/BF01046326. PMID 1483975. S2CID 42054100.
According to the latest CDC prevalence reports, 1 in 44 children (2.3%) in the United States had a diagnosis of ASD in 2018.[350]
^ Muzikar, Debra (2019). "The Autism Puzzle Piece: A symbol that's going to stay or go?". The Art of Autism.
^ Cerase A, Young AN, Ruiz NB, Buness A, Sant GM, Arnold M,et al. (April 2021). "Chd8 regulates X chromosome inactivation in mouse through fine-tuning control of Xist expression". Communications Biology. 4 (1): 485. doi:10.1038/s42003-021-01945-1. PMC 8050208. PMID 33859315.
^ Dwyer P, Ryan JG, Williams ZJ, Gassner DL (April 2022). "First Do No Harm: Suggestions Regarding Respectful Autism Language". Pediatrics. American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP). 149 (Suppl 4). doi:10.1542/peds.2020-049437n. PMC 9066426. PMID 35363298.
Lockwood Estrin G, Milner V, Spain D, Happé F, Colvert E (29 October 2020). "Barriers to Autism Spectrum Disorder Diagnosis for Young Women and Girls: a Systematic Review". Review Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. Springer Science and Business Media LLC. 8 (4): 454–470. doi:10.1007/s40489-020-00225-8. PMC 8604819. PMID 34868805.
^ Carolyn Cole (24 January 2018). "What is Asperger's Syndrome". Guiding Pathways header logo. Retrieved 21 July 2019.
^ Rumayor CB, Thrasher AM (November 2017). "Reflections on Recent Research Into Animal-Assisted Interventions in the Military and Beyond". Current Psychiatry Reports. 19 (12): 110. doi:10.1007/s11920-017-0861-z. PMID 29177710. S2CID 207338873.
^ a b Pickett D, Anderson RN (18 July 2018). Status on ICD-11: The WHO Launch (PDF) (Report). CDC/NCHS.
"ASA Founder, Pioneer in autism research, support, to be honored by community he founded". US Newswire. Washington. 22 November 2006.
Volkmar FR, Paul R, Pelphrey KA, Rogers SJ, eds. (2014). Handbook of Autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorders: Volume Two: Assessment, Interventions, and Policy. Vol. 2 (4th ed.). Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons. p. 301. ISBN 978-1-118-28220-5. LCCN 2013034363. OCLC 946133861. Retrieved 1 March 2019.
Szpir M (July 2006). "Tracing the origins of autism: a spectrum of new studies". Environmental Health Perspectives. 114 (7): A412–A418. doi:10.1289/ehp.114-a412. PMC 1513312. PMID 16835042.
"Autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia: meta-analysis of the neural correlates of social cognition"
^ a b c d Johnson CP, Myers SM (November 2007). "Identification and evaluation of children with autism spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. 120 (5): 1183–1215. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-2361. PMID 17967920. Archived from the original on 8 February 2009.
^ Helverschou SB, Bakken TL, Martinsen H (2011). "Psychiatric Disorders in People with Autism Spectrum Disorders: Phenomenology and Recognition".In Matson JL, Sturmey P (eds.). International handbook of autism and pervasive developmental disorders. New York: Springer. pp. 53–74. ISBN 9781441980649. OCLC 746203105.
Glidden D, Bouman WP, Jones BA, Arcelus J (January 2016). "Gender Dysphoria and Autism Spectrum Disorder: A Systematic Review of the Literature". Sexual Medicine Reviews. 4 (1): 3–14. doi:10.1016/j.sxmr.2015.10.003. PMID 27872002. S2CID 3454600.
"On the ontological status of autism: the 'double empathy problem'"
^ a b Rosen NE, Lord C, Volkmar FR (December 2021). "The Diagnosis of Autism: From Kanner to DSM-III to DSM-5 and Beyond". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 51 (12): 4253–4270. doi:10.1007/s10803-021-04904-1. PMC 8531066. PMID 33624215.
Maugh II, Thomas H. (26 November 2006). "Obituaries: Bernard Rimland, 78; Author was the father of modern autism research". Los Angeles Times. No. Home Edition. Los Angeles, California. p. B.14. Retrieved 6 May 2018.
The concept of the double empathy problem was conceived in 2012 by British psychologist Damian Milton. The idea proposes that the interaction issues between autistic and non-autistic people are at least in part because these two types of people think differently from each other, understand other people in their own group, but have difficulty understanding people that think differently.[395][396] This contrasts with the idea that the interaction issues are due to autistic people having lesser social understanding abilities than non-autistic people.
Using DSM-5 criteria, 92% of the children diagnosed per DSM-IV with one of the disorders which is now considered part of ASD will still meet the diagnostic criteria of ASD. However, if both ASD and the social (pragmatic) communication disorder categories of DSM-5 are combined, the prevalence of autism is mostly unchanged from the prevalence per the DSM-IV criteria. The best estimate for prevalence of ASD is 0.7% or 1 child in 143 children.[334] Relatively mild forms of autism, such as Aspergers as well as other developmental disorders, are included in the DSM-5 diagnostic criteria.[335] ASD rates were constant between 2014 and 2016 but twice the rate compared to the time period between 2011 and 2014 (1.25 vs 2.47%). A Canadian meta-analysis from 2019 confirmed these effects as the profiles of people diagnosed with autism became less and less different from the profiles of the general population.[336] In the US, the rates for diagnosed ASD have been steadily increasing since 2000 when records began being kept.[337] While it remains unclear whether this trend represents a true rise in incidence, it likely reflects changes in ASD diagnostic criteria, improved detection, and increased public awareness of autism.[338] In 2012, the NHS estimated that the overall prevalence of autism among adults aged 18 years and over in the UK was 1.1%.[339] A 2016 survey in the United States reported a rate of 25 per 1,000 children for ASD.[340] It is important to note that rates of autism are poorly understood in many low- and middle-income countries, which affects the accuracy of global ASD prevalence estimates,[341] but it is thought that most autistic individuals live in low- and middle-income countries.[316]
Lomelin DE (2010). "An Examination of Autism Spectrum Disorders in Relation to Human Evolution and Life History Theory". Nebraska Anthropologist. 57.
^ Silverman C (1 September 2008). "Fieldwork on Another Planet: Social Science Perspectives on the Autism Spectrum". BioSocieties. 3 (3): 325–341. doi:10.1017/S1745855208006236. ISSN 1745-8560. S2CID 145379758.
^ Chapman R, Veit W (November 2021). "Correction to: The essence of autism: fact or artefact?". Molecular Psychiatry. 26 (11): 7069. doi:10.1038/s41380-021-01057-6. PMID 34697454. S2CID 239771302.
Mandell DS, Novak MM, Zubritsky CD (December 2005). "Factors associated with age of diagnosis among children with autism spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. 116 (6): 1480–1486. doi:10.1542/peds.2005-0185. PMC 2861294. PMID 16322174.
The risk of developing autism is greater with older fathers than with older mothers; two potential explanations are the known increase in mutation burden in older sperm, and the hypothesis that men marry later if they carry genetic liability and show some signs of autism.[23] Most professionals believe that race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic background do not affect the occurrence of autism.[349]
"Siblings of individuals with autism spectrum disorders across the life course"
Pellicano E, den Houting J (April 2022). "Annual Research Review: Shifting from 'normal science' to neurodiversity in autism science". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 63 (4): 381–396. doi:10.1111/jcpp.13534. PMC 9298391. PMID 34730840. S2CID 241118562.
"Diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders in the first 3 years of life"
^ Eldevik S, Hastings RP, Hughes JC, Jahr E, Eikeseth S, Cross S (May 2009). "Meta-analysis of Early Intensive Behavioral Intervention for children with autism". Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 38 (3): 439–450. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.607.9620. doi:10.1080/15374410902851739. PMID 19437303. S2CID 205873629.
Self-injury could be a response to modulate pain perception when chronic pain or other health problems that cause pain are present.[75]: 12–13
"About autism spectrum disorder (ASD)". Government of Canada. 18 January 2016. Retrieved 4 November 2021.
White SW, Oswald D, Ollendick T, Scahill L (April 2009). "Anxiety in children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorders". Clinical Psychology Review. 29 (3): 216–229. doi:10.1016/j.cpr.2009.01.003. PMC 2692135. PMID 19223098.
"At the intersection of autism and trauma". 26 September 2018.
Reiss AL (January 2009). "Childhood developmental disorders: an academic and clinical convergence point for psychiatry, neurology, psychology and pediatrics". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 50 (1–2): 87–98. doi:10.1111/j.1469-7610.2008.02046.x. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMC 5756732. PMID 19220592.
^ Powell K (August 2004). "Opening a window to the autistic brain". PLOS Biology. 2 (8): E267. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.0020267. PMC 509312. PMID 15314667.
Jaarsma P, Welin S (March 2012). "Autism as a natural human variation: reflections on the claims of the neurodiversity movement". Health Care Analysis. 20 (1): 20–30. doi:10.1007/s10728-011-0169-9. PMID 21311979. S2CID 18618887.
^ Godlee F, Smith J, Marcovitch H (January 2011). "Wakefield's article linking MMR vaccine and autism was fraudulent". BMJ. 342: c7452. doi:10.1136/bmj.c7452. PMID 21209060. S2CID 43640126.
"Section 2: Neurodevelopmental Disorders". Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders : DSM-5-TR (Print) (Fifth edition, text revision. ed.). Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Association Publishing. 2022. ISBN 978-0-89042-575-6.
^ Wallis KE, Pinto-Martin J (May 2008). "The challenge of screening for autism spectrum disorder in a culturally diverse society". Acta Paediatrica. 97 (5): 539–540. doi:10.1111/j.1651-2227.2008.00720.x. PMID 18373717. S2CID 39744269.
"Diagnostic Criteria | Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) | NCBDDD | CDC". 2 November 2022.
Rates of comorbid depression in individuals with an ASD range from 4–58%.[225]
The Healthy People 2020 Roadmap for Massachusetts Children & Youth with ASD/DD: Understanding Needs and Measuring Outcomes (Report)
Parents may first become aware of ASD symptoms in their child around the time of a routine vaccination. This has led to unsupported and disproven theories blaming vaccine "overload", a vaccine preservative, or the MMR vaccine for causing autism spectrum disorder.[135] In 1998, British physician and academic Andrew Wakefield led a fraudulent, litigation-funded study that suggested that the MMR vaccine may cause autism.[136][137][138][139][140] This conjecture suggested that autism results from brain damage caused either by the MMR vaccine itself, or by thimerosal, a vaccine preservative.[141] No convincing scientific evidence supports these claims.[18] They are biologically implausible,[135] and further evidence continues to refute them, including the observation that the rate of autism continues to climb despite elimination of thimerosal from routine childhood vaccines.[142] A 2014 meta-analysis examined ten major studies on autism and vaccines involving 1.25 million children worldwide; it concluded that neither the MMR vaccine, which has never contained thimerosal,[143] nor the vaccine components thimerosal or mercury, lead to the development of ASDs.[144] Despite this, misplaced parental concern has led to lower rates of childhood immunizations, outbreaks of previously controlled childhood diseases in some countries, and the preventable deaths of several children.[145][146]
^ Dominick KC, Davis NO, Lainhart J, Tager-Flusberg H, Folstein S (2007). "Atypical behaviors in children with autism and children with a history of language impairment". Research in Developmental Disabilities. Elsevier. 28 (2): 145–162. doi:10.1016/j.ridd.2006.02.003. eISSN 1873-3379. ISSN 0891-4222. PMID 16581226.
Stichter JP, Riley-Tillman TC, Jimerson SR (December 2016). "Assessing, understanding, and supporting students with autism at school: Contemporary science, practice, and policy". School Psychology Quarterly. 31 (4): 443–449. doi:10.1037/spq0000184. PMID 27929316.
DSM-5-TR, "Autism spectrum disorder encompasses disorders previously referred to as early infantile autism, childhood autism, Kanner's autism, high-functioning autism, atypical autism, pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified, childhood disintegrative disorder, and Asperger's disorder".
^ Markram K, Markram H (21 December 2010). "The intense world theory - a unifying theory of the neurobiology of autism". Frontiers in Human Neuroscience (Review). 4: 224. doi:10.3389/fnhum.2010.00224. PMC 3010743. PMID 21191475. The proposed neuropathology is hyper-functioning of local neural microcircuits, best characterized by hyper-reactivity and hyper-plasticity. Such hyper-functional microcircuits are speculated to become autonomous and memory trapped leading to the core cognitive consequences of hyper-perception, hyper-attention, hyper-memory and hyper-emotionality. The theory is centered on the neocortex and the amygdala, but could potentially be applied to all brain regions. (...) This may lead to obsessively detailed information processing of fragments of the world and an involuntarily and systematic decoupling of the autist from what becomes a painfully intense world.
"Early intensive behavioral intervention (EIBI) for young children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD)"
^ Du, Xuehong; Jiao, Jianxin; Tseng, Mitchell M. (2003). "Identifying customer need patterns for customization and personalization". Integrated Manufacturing Systems. 14 (5): 387–396. doi:10.1108/09576060310477799.
No response to name (or gazing with direct eye contact) by 6 months.[202]
Pro-inflammatory cytokines IFN-γ, IFN-α, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-17 have been shown to promote autistic behaviors in animal models. Giving anti-IL-6 and anti-IL-17 along with IL-6 and IL-17, respectively, have been shown to negate this effect in the same animal models.[171]
Gentile S (August 2015). "Prenatal antidepressant exposure and the risk of autism spectrum disorders in children. Are we looking at the fall of Gods?". Journal of Affective Disorders. 182: 132–7. doi:10.1016/j.jad.2015.04.048. PMID 25985383.
^ Hamlyn J, Duhig M, McGrath J, Scott J (May 2013). "Modifiable risk factors for schizophrenia and autism—shared risk factors impacting on brain development". Neurobiology of Disease. 53: 3–9. doi:10.1016/j.nbd.2012.10.023. PMID 23123588. S2CID 207067275.
^ Persico AM, Napolioni V (August 2013). "Autism genetics". Behavioural Brain Research. 251: 95–112. doi:10.1016/j.bbr.2013.06.012. PMID 23769996. S2CID 15721666.
^ Volta U, Caio G, De Giorgio R, Henriksen C, Skodje G, Lundin KE (June 2015). "Non-celiac gluten sensitivity: a work-in-progress entity in the spectrum of wheat-related disorders". Best Practice & Research. Clinical Gastroenterology. 29 (3): 477–491. doi:10.1016/j.bpg.2015.04.006. PMID 26060112. autism spectrum disorders (ASD) have been hypothesized to be associated with NCGS [47,48]. Notably, a gluten- and casein-free diet might have a positive effect in improving hyperactivity and mental confusion in some patients with ASD. This very exciting association between NCGS and ASD deserves further study before conclusions can be firmly drawn
Lyford, Kathy (13 November 2008). "'Big Bang Theory': Jim Parsons – 'Everybody has a little Sheldon in them'". Season Pass. Variety. Archived from the original on 22 July 2012. Retrieved 14 April 2009. Specific video is Jim Parsons interview, part 5 Archived October 31, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. Question is from 03:18–3:31. Answer is from 4:36–6:00. Specific quote is from 5:15–5:20.
^ a b Fein D, Barton M, Eigsti IM, Kelley E, Naigles L, Schultz RT,et al. (February 2013). "Optimal outcome in individuals with a history of autism". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 54 (2): 195–205. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12037. PMC 3547539. PMID 23320807.
Orsmond GI, Seltzer MM (2007). "Siblings of individuals with autism spectrum disorders across the life course" (PDF). Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews. 13 (4): 313–320. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.359.7273. doi:10.1002/mrdd.20171. PMID 17979200. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 May 2013.
"Neuroanatomical Diversity of Corpus Callosum and Brain Volume in Autism: Meta-analysis, Analysis of the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange Project, and Simulation"
CDC (31 March 2022). "Screening and Diagnosis | Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) | NCBDDD". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 12 September 2022.
"Annual Research Review: Shifting from 'normal science' to neurodiversity in autism science"
A Soviet child psychiatrist, Grunya Sukhareva, studied autism extensively. She described the syndrome in detail in Russian in 1925, and in German in 1926 (as Die schizoiden Psychopathien im Kindesalter).[353] Her descriptions aligned well with that for ASD in the DSM-5.[354][355] Sukhareva did not believe the condition was a form of schizophrenia. She initially considered it a "schizoid personality disorder of childhood".[354] Sukhareva's work would be largely unknown in the Anglosphere until the late 2010s.
^ Lefebvre A, Beggiato A, Bourgeron T, Toro R (July 2015). "Neuroanatomical Diversity of Corpus Callosum and Brain Volume in Autism: Meta-analysis, Analysis of the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange Project, and Simulation". Biological Psychiatry. 78 (2): 126–34. doi:10.1016/j.biopsych.2015.02.010. PMID 25850620. S2CID 8794474.
Hollander E, Hagerman RJ, Fein D (30 April 2018). Autism spectrum disorders (First ed.). Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Association Publishing. ISBN 978-1-61537-192-1. OCLC 1022084798.
^ Brown EA, Lautz JD, Davis TR, Gniffke EP, VanSchoiack AA, Neier SC,et al. (2018). "Clustering the autisms using glutamate synapse protein interaction networks from cortical and hippocampal tissue of seven mouse models". Molecular Autism. 9 (48): 48. doi:10.1186/s13229-018-0229-1. PMC 6139139. PMID 30237867.
^ There have been multiple conversations about the flag on Reddit. Take for example: Reddit (2019). "I tried creating an autism/neurodiversity flag. It's a work in progress."; Reddit (2022). "Autism pride flag goes hard." and Reddit (2022). "where did this flag even come from? first time i ever saw it was during r/place, now i see it everywhere."
Karst JS, Van Hecke AV (September 2012). "Parent and family impact of autism spectrum disorders: a review and proposed model for intervention evaluation". Clinical Child and Family Psychology Review. 15 (3): 247–77. doi:10.1007/s10567-012-0119-6. PMID 22869324. S2CID 19170894.
^ Leskovec TJ, Rowles BM, Findling RL (2008). "Pharmacological treatment options for autism spectrum disorders in children and adolescents". Harvard Review of Psychiatry. 16 (2): 97–112. doi:10.1080/10673220802075852. PMID 18415882. S2CID 26112061.
It had mostly long been presumed that there is a common cause at the genetic, cognitive, and neural levels for the social and non-social components of ASD's symptoms, described as a triad in the classic autism criteria.[91] However, there is increasing suspicion that autism is instead a complex disorder whose core aspects have distinct causes that often co-occur.[91][92] While it is unlikely that a single cause for ASD exists,[92] many risk factors identified in the research literature may contribute to ASD development. These risk factors include genetics, prenatal and perinatal factors (meaning factors during pregnancy or very early infancy), neuroanatomical abnormalities, and environmental factors. It is possible to identify general factors, but much more difficult to pinpoint specific factors. Given the current state of knowledge, prediction can only be of a global nature and therefore requires the use of general markers.[93]
^ Baron-Cohen S, Klin A (June 2006). "What's so special about Asperger Syndrome?" (PDF). Brain and Cognition. 61 (1): 1–4. doi:10.1016/j.bandc.2006.02.002. PMID 16563588. S2CID 12554302. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 February 2012. Retrieved 5 April 2012.
London E (October 2007). "The role of the neurobiologist in redefining the diagnosis of autism". Brain Pathology. 17 (4): 408–411. doi:10.1111/j.1750-3639.2007.00103.x. PMC 8095627. PMID 17919126. S2CID 24860348.
^ Sanders SJ, He X, Willsey AJ, Ercan-Sencicek AG, Samocha KE, Cicek AE,et al. (September 2015). "Insights into Autism Spectrum Disorder Genomic Architecture and Biology from 71 Risk Loci". Neuron. 87 (6): 1215–1233. doi:10.1016/j.neuron.2015.09.016. PMC 4624267. PMID 26402605.
Bernick M (12 January 2021). "The State Of Autism Employment In 2021". Forbes. Retrieved 11 February 2022.
Wang X, Zhao J, Huang S, Chen S, Zhou T, Li Q,et al. (May 2021). "Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Autism Spectrum Disorders: A Systematic Review". Pediatrics. American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP). 147 (5). doi:10.1542/peds.2020-049880. PMID 33888566. S2CID 233370479.
"Why Asperger's Syndrome is no longer listed in the DSM".
^ a b c d Oliver C, Richards C (October 2015). "Practitioner Review: Self-injurious behaviour in children with developmental delay" (PDF). J Child Psychol Psychiatry (Review). 56 (10): 1042–54. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12425. PMID 25916173.
^ Silverman C (2008). "Fieldwork on Another Planet: Social Science Perspectives on the Autism Spectrum". BioSocieties. 3 (3): 325–341. doi:10.1017/S1745855208006236. ISSN 1745-8552. S2CID 145379758.
These features are typically assessed with the following, when appropriate:
7Prognosis											Toggle Prognosis subsection																					7.1Developmental course																								7.1.1Gradual autism development																											7.1.2Regressive autism development																											7.1.3Differential outcomes																														7.2Academic performance																											7.3Employment
Older autistic children and adults perform worse on tests of face and emotion recognition than non-autistic individuals, although this may be due to the prevalence of alexithymia in autistic people rather than autism itself.[56]
^ a b c Stefanatos GA (December 2008). "Regression in autistic spectrum disorders". Neuropsychology Review. 18 (4): 305–319. doi:10.1007/s11065-008-9073-y. PMID 18956241. S2CID 34658024.
^ Hollander E, Hagerman R, Fein D, eds. (2018). Autism Spectrum Disorders. eBooks. American Psychiatric Association. Chapter 6: Cognitive Assessment. doi:10.1176/appi.books.9781615371921. ISBN 978-1-61537-192-1. Retrieved 12 September 2022.
^ Hendricks DR, Wehman P (24 March 2009). "Transition From School to Adulthood for Youth With Autism Spectrum Disorders: Review and Recommendations". Focus on Autism and Other Developmental Disabilities. 24 (2): 77–88. doi:10.1177/1088357608329827. S2CID 14636906.
^ Boseley S (2 February 2010). "Lancet retracts 'utterly false' MMR paper". The Guardian.
Loukusa S (2021). "Autism Spectrum Disorder".In Cummings L (ed.). Handbook of pragmatic language disorders : complex and underserved populations. Cham, Switzerland: Springer. pp. 45–78. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-74985-9_3. ISBN 978-3-030-74984-2. OCLC 1269056169. S2CID 239160368.
Carolyn Cole (24 January 2018). "What is Asperger's Syndrome". Guiding Pathways header logo. Retrieved 21 July 2019.
Ritualistic behavior: Unvarying pattern of daily activities, such as an unchanging menu or a dressing ritual. This is closely associated with sameness and an independent validation has suggested combining the two factors.[73]
Montes G, Halterman JS (April 2008). "Association of childhood autism spectrum disorders and loss of family income". Pediatrics. 121 (4): e821–e826. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-1594. PMID 18381511. S2CID 55179. Archived from the original on 4 March 2010.
46% to 84% of autistic individuals have GI-related problems like reflux, diarrhea, constipation, inflammatory bowel disease, and food allergies.[170] It has been observed that the makeup of gut bacteria in autistic people is different than that of neurotypical individuals which has raised the question of influence of gut bacteria on ASD development via inducing an inflammatory state.[171] Listed below are some research findings on the influence of gut bacteria and abnormal immune responses on brain development:[171]
Increased brain size in early childhood causing macrocephaly in 15–20% of ASD individuals. The brain size however normalizes by mid-childhood. This variation in brain size in not uniform in the ASD brain with some parts like the frontal and temporal lobes being larger, some like the parietal and occipital lobes being normal sized, and some like cerebellar vermis, corpus callosum, and basal ganglia being smaller than neurotypical individuals.[117]
^ Ekleberry SC (2008). "Cluster A - Schizoid Personality Disorder and Substance Use Disorders". Integrated Treatment for Co-Occurring Disorders: Personality Disorders and Addiction. Routledge. pp. 31–32. ISBN 978-0789036933.
More pronounced inflammatory responses to bacteria were found in ASD individuals with an abnormal gut microbiota. Additionally, immunoglobulin A antibodies that are central to gut immunity were also found in elevated levels in ASD populations. Some of these antibodies may attack proteins that support myelination of the brain, a process that is important for robust transmission of neural signal in many nerves.[171]
^ Roux AM, Rast JE, Rava JA, Anderson KA, Shattuck PT (31 August 2015). "Employment Outcomes of Young Adults on the Autism Spectrum". Life Course Outcomes Research Program, A.J. Drexel Autism Institute. Philadelphia, PA: Drexel University.
^ "F84. Pervasive developmental disorders". ICD-10: International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems: Tenth Revision. World Health Organization. 2007. Archived from the original on 21 April 2013. Retrieved 10 October 2009.
^ Bird G, Cook R (July 2013). "Mixed emotions: the contribution of alexithymia to the emotional symptoms of autism". Translational Psychiatry. 3 (7): e285. doi:10.1038/tp.2013.61. PMC 3731793. PMID 23880881.
^ Lainhart J (1999). "Psychiatric problems in individuals with autism, their parents and siblings". International Review of Psychiatry. 11 (4): 278–298. doi:10.1080/09540269974177.
Persico AM, Napolioni V (August 2013). "Autism genetics". Behavioural Brain Research. 251: 95–112. doi:10.1016/j.bbr.2013.06.012. PMID 23769996. S2CID 15721666.
^ "WHO releases new International Classification of Diseases (ICD 11)". World Health Organisation (Press Release). Retrieved 29 October 2021.
Tsakanikos E, Costello H, Holt G, Sturmey P, Bouras N (July 2007). "Behaviour management problems as predictors of psychotropic medication and use of psychiatric services in adults with autism" (PDF). Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 37 (6): 1080–5. doi:10.1007/s10803-006-0248-1. PMID 17053989. S2CID 14272598.
^ Dinstein I, Thomas C, Behrmann M, Heeger DJ (2008). "A mirror up to nature". Curr Biol. 18 (1): R13–8. doi:10.1016/j.cub.2007.11.004. PMC 2517574. PMID 18177704.
Paul R (June 2009). "Parents ask: Am I risking autism if I vaccinate my children?". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 39 (6): 962–963. doi:10.1007/s10803-009-0739-y. PMID 19363650. S2CID 34467853.
"Is functional brain connectivity atypical in autism? A systematic review of EEG and MEG studies"
Awais Aftab, M. D. (23 May 2022). "Neurodiversity and the Social Ecology of Disability". Vol 39, Issue 5. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Nishiyama M, Oshikawa K, Tsukada Y, Nakagawa T, Iemura S, Natsume T,et al. (February 2009). "CHD8 suppresses p53-mediated apoptosis through histone H1 recruitment during early embryogenesis". Nature Cell Biology. 11 (2): 172–182. doi:10.1038/ncb1831. PMC 3132516. PMID 19151705.
Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information.
Johnny L Matson; Mary Shoemaker (14 July 2009). "Intellectual disability and its relationship to autism spectrum disorders". Research in Developmental Disabilities. 30 (6): 1107–1114. doi:10.1016/J.RIDD.2009.06.003. ISSN 0891-4222. PMID 19604668. Wikidata Q37552242. eISSN 1873-3379
There is no treatment as such for autism,[239] and many sources advise that this is not an appropriate goal,[240][241] although treatment of co-occurring conditions remains an important goal.[242] There is no cure for autism as of 2022, nor can any of the known treatments significantly reduce brain mutations caused by autism, although those who require little-to-no support are more likely to experience a lessening of symptoms over time.[243][244][245] Several interventions can help children with autism,[246] and no single treatment is best, with treatment typically tailored to the child's needs.[247] Studies of interventions have methodological problems that prevent definitive conclusions about efficacy;[248] however, the development of evidence-based interventions has advanced.[249]
^ Ben-Sasson A, Hen L, Fluss R, Cermak SA, Engel-Yeger B, Gal E (January 2009). "A meta-analysis of sensory modulation symptoms in individuals with autism spectrum disorders". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 39 (1): 1–11. doi:10.1007/s10803-008-0593-3. PMID 18512135. S2CID 5208889.
Geschwind DH (October 2008). "Autism: many genes, common pathways?". Cell. 135 (3): 391–395. doi:10.1016/j.cell.2008.10.016. PMC 2756410. PMID 18984147.
"where did this flag even come from? first time i ever saw it was during r/place, now i see it everywhere."
^ "Diagnostic Criteria | Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) | NCBDDD | CDC". 2 November 2022.
Caronna EB, Milunsky JM, Tager-Flusberg H (June 2008). "Autism spectrum disorders: clinical and research frontiers". Archives of Disease in Childhood. 93 (6): 518–523. doi:10.1136/adc.2006.115337. PMID 18305076. S2CID 18761374.
Van Der Miesen AI, Hurley H, De Vries AL (2016). "Gender dysphoria and autism spectrum disorder: A narrative review". International Review of Psychiatry. 28 (1): 70–80. doi:10.3109/09540261.2015.1111199. PMID 26753812. S2CID 20918937.
The character Sheldon Cooper first appeared on American television in 2007, in the popular sitcom The Big Bang Theory. While he is not explicitly autistic, according to the actor who plays him as an adult, the character "couldn't display more traits" of Asperger's syndrome.[393][394]
"World Autism Awareness Day, 2 April". United Nations. Retrieved 17 November 2015.
"Serotonin as a link between the gut-brain-microbiome axis in autism spectrum disorders"
In social contexts, autistic people may respond and behave differently than people without ASD.[48]
Matson JL, Neal D (2009). "Cormorbidity: diagnosing comorbid psychiatric conditions". Psychiatr Times. 26 (4). Archived from the original on 3 April 2013.
Dominick KC, Davis NO, Lainhart J, Tager-Flusberg H, Folstein S (2007). "Atypical behaviors in children with autism and children with a history of language impairment". Research in Developmental Disabilities. Elsevier. 28 (2): 145–162. doi:10.1016/j.ridd.2006.02.003. eISSN 1873-3379. ISSN 0891-4222. PMID 16581226.
^ Kulage KM, Smaldone AM, Cohn EG (August 2014). "How will DSM-5 affect autism diagnosis? A systematic literature review and meta-analysis". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 44 (8): 1918–32. doi:10.1007/s10803-014-2065-2. PMID 24531932. S2CID 18865395.
Bascom J (18 June 2015). "Autistic Pride Day 2015: A Message to the Autistic Community". Retrieved 18 November 2015.
^ a b c d e f Siu AL, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Baumann LC, Davidson KW, Ebell M,et al. (February 2016). "Screening for Autism Spectrum Disorder in Young Children: US Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement". JAMA. 315 (7): 691–696. doi:10.1001/jama.2016.0018. PMID 26881372.
Chisholm K, Lin A, Abu-Akel A, Wood SJ (August 2015). "The association between autism and schizophrenia spectrum disorders: A review of eight alternate models of co-occurrence" (PDF). Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews. 55: 173–83. doi:10.1016/j.neubiorev.2015.04.012. PMID 25956249. S2CID 21450062.
Rizzolatti G, Fabbri-Destro M (January 2010). "Mirror neurons: from discovery to autism". Experimental Brain Research. 200 (3–4): 223–37. doi:10.1007/s00221-009-2002-3. PMID 19760408. S2CID 3342808.
Ideally the diagnosis of ASD should be given by a team of clinicians (e.g. pediatricians, child psychiatrists, child neurologists) based on information provided from the affected individual, caregivers, other medical professionals and from direct observation.[186] Evaluation of a child or adult for autism spectrum disorder typically starts with a pediatrician or primary care physician taking a developmental history and performing a physical exam. If warranted, the physician may refer the individual to an ASD specialist who will observe and assess cognitive, communication, family, and other factors using standardized tools, and taking into account any associated medical conditions.[182] A pediatric neuropsychologist is often asked to assess behavior and cognitive skills, both to aid diagnosis and to help recommend educational interventions.[187] Further workup may be performed after someone is diagnosed with ASD. This may include a clinical genetics evaluation particularly when other symptoms already suggest a genetic cause.[188] Although up to 40% of ASD cases may be linked to genetic causes,[189] it is not currently recommended to perform complete genetic testing on every individual who is diagnosed with ASD. Consensus guidelines for genetic testing in patients with ASD in the US and UK are limited to high-resolution chromosome and fragile X testing.[188] Metabolic and neuroimaging tests are also not routinely performed for diagnosis of ASD.[188]
Until 2013, deficits in social function and communication were considered two separate symptom domains of autism.[54] The current social communication domain criteria for autism diagnosis require individuals to have deficits across three social skills: social-emotional reciprocity, nonverbal communication, and developing and sustaining relationships.[34]
^ Praslova, Ludmila N. (21 June 2022). "An Intersectional Approach to Inclusion at Work". Harvard Business Review. ISSN 0017-8012. Retrieved 8 February 2023.
^ a b Myers SM, Johnson CP (November 2007). "Management of children with autism spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. 120 (5): 1162–1182. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-2362. PMID 17967921. S2CID 1656920. Archived from the original on 12 June 2009.
Filipek PA, Accardo PJ, Ashwal S, Baranek GT, Cook EH, Dawson G,et al. (August 2000). "Practice parameter: screening and diagnosis of autism: report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the Child Neurology Society". Neurology. 55 (4): 468–79. doi:10.1212/wnl.55.4.468. PMID 10953176.
^ Stanfield AC, McIntosh AM, Spencer MD, Philip R, Gaur S, Lawrie SM (June 2008). "Towards a neuroanatomy of autism: a systematic review and meta-analysis of structural magnetic resonance imaging studies". European Psychiatry. 23 (4): 289–99. doi:10.1016/j.eurpsy.2007.05.006. PMID 17765485. S2CID 29070618.
San Mauro Martín I, Garicano Vilar E, Collado Yurrutia L, Ciudad Cabañas MJ (December 2014). "[Is gluten the great etiopathogenic agent of disease in the XXI century?]" [Is gluten the great etiopathogenic agent of disease in the XXI century?]. Nutricion Hospitalaria (in Spanish). 30 (6): 1203–1210. doi:10.3305/nh.2014.30.6.7866. PMID 25433099.
^ "Results and Analysis of the Autistic Not Weird 2022 Autism Survey - Autistic Not Weird". 23 March 2022. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
^ Corsello C, Hus V, Pickles A, Risi S, Cook EH, Leventhal BL, Lord C (September 2007). "Between a ROC and a hard place: decision making and making decisions about using the SCQ". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 48 (9): 932–40. doi:10.1111/j.1469-7610.2007.01762.x. eISSN 1469-7610. hdl:2027.42/74877. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMID 17714378.
^ a b Rao M, Gershon MD (September 2016). "The bowel and beyond: the enteric nervous system in neurological disorders". Nature Reviews. Gastroenterology & Hepatology (Review). 13 (9): 517–528. doi:10.1038/nrgastro.2016.107. PMC 5005185. PMID 27435372. immune dysregulation, GI inflammation, malfunction of the ANS, genetic and metabolic activity of the microbiome, and dietary metabolites may contribute to brain dysfunction and neuroinflammation depending upon individual genetic vulnerability
Helt M, Kelley E, Kinsbourne M, Pandey J, Boorstein H, Herbert M, Fein D (December 2008). "Can children with autism recover? If so, how?". Neuropsychology Review. 18 (4): 339–366. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.695.2995. doi:10.1007/s11065-008-9075-9. PMID 19009353. S2CID 4317267.
Many autistic people face significant obstacles in transitioning to adulthood.[319] Compared to the general population, autistic people are more likely to be unemployed and to have never had a job. About half of people in their 20s with autism are not employed.[320] Some autistic adults are unable to live independently.[321]
"10 Facts about Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)". Early Childhood Development | ACF. Retrieved 6 November 2019.
^ Bailin A (6 June 2019). "Clearing Up Some Misconceptions about Neurodiversity". Scientific American Blog Network. Nature America, Inc. Archived from the original on 29 June 2019. Retrieved 17 March 2022.
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition, Text Revision (DSM-5-TR)
James S, Stevenson SW, Silove N, Williams K (May 2015).James S (ed.). "Chelation for autism spectrum disorder (ASD)". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (Review) (5): CD010766. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD010766. PMID 26106752.
Doyle CA, McDougle CJ (September 2012). "Pharmacologic treatments for the behavioral symptoms associated with autism spectrum disorders across the lifespan". Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience. 14 (3): 263–279. doi:10.31887/DCNS.2012.14.3/cdoyle. PMC 3513681. PMID 23226952.
^ Annio Posar; Paola Visconti (23 September 2020). "Is it autism? Some suggestions for pediatricians". Türk pediatri arsivi Turkish Pediatrics Archive. 55 (3): 229–235. doi:10.14744/TURKPEDIATRIARS.2020.59862. ISSN 1306-0015. PMC 7536466. PMID 33061749. Wikidata Q100648906.
^ a b c d "Autism Spectrum Disorder: Communication Problems in Children". NIDCD. 18 August 2015. Retrieved 17 December 2017.
Samsam M, Ahangari R, Naser SA (August 2014). "Pathophysiology of autism spectrum disorders: revisiting gastrointestinal involvement and immune imbalance". World Journal of Gastroenterology (Review). 20 (29): 9942–9951. doi:10.3748/wjg.v20.i29.9942. PMC 4123375. PMID 25110424.
^ a b c Landa RJ (March 2008). "Diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders in the first 3 years of life". Nature Clinical Practice. Neurology. 4 (3): 138–147. doi:10.1038/ncpneuro0731. PMID 18253102.
"Estimating the prevalence of autism spectrum conditions in adults: extending the 2007 Adult Psychiatric Morbidity Survey"
While there are a number of parent-mediated behavioral therapies to target social communication deficits in children with autism, there is uncertainty regarding the efficacy of interventions to treat RRBs.[265]
^ a b c Wasilewska J, Klukowski M (2015). "Gastrointestinal symptoms and autism spectrum disorder: links and risks - a possible new overlap syndrome". Pediatric Health, Medicine and Therapeutics (Review). 6: 153–166. doi:10.2147/PHMT.S85717. PMC 5683266. PMID 29388597.
Ameis SH, Kassee C, Corbett-Dick P, Cole L, Dadhwal S, Lai MC,et al. (November 2018). "Systematic review and guide to management of core and psychiatric symptoms in youth with autism". Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica. 138 (5): 379–400. doi:10.1111/acps.12918. PMID 29904907. S2CID 49209337.
Myers SM, Johnson CP (November 2007). "Management of children with autism spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. 120 (5): 1162–1182. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-2362. PMID 17967921.
"Results and Analysis of the Autistic Not Weird 2022 Autism Survey - Autistic Not Weird"
"Advances in autism genetics: on the threshold of a new neurobiology"
^ Gernsbacher MA, Dawson M, Goldsmith HH (April 2005). "Three Reasons Not to Believe in an Autism Epidemic". Current Directions in Psychological Science. 14 (2): 55–58. doi:10.1111/j.0963-7214.2005.00334.x. PMC 4232964. PMID 25404790.
Intensive, sustained special education programs and behavior therapy early in life may help children acquire self-care, language, and job skills.[247] Although evidence-based interventions for autistic children vary in their methods, many adopt a psychoeducational approach to enhancing cognitive, communication, and social skills while minimizing problem behaviors. While medications have not been found to help with core symptoms, they may be used for associated symptoms, such as irritability, inattention, or repetitive behavior patterns.[254]
Spencer JP, Trondsen Pawlowski RH, Thomas S (June 2017). "Vaccine Adverse Events: Separating Myth from Reality". American Family Physician. 95 (12): 786–794. PMID 28671426.
Sala, G.; Hooley, M.; Attwood, T. (2019). "Autism and Intellectual Disability: A Systematic Review of Sexuality and Relationship Education". Sexuality and Disability. 37 (3): 353–382. doi:10.1007/s11195-019-09577-4. S2CID 255011485.
Zhang Y, Han VZ (April 2018). "[Neurobiological mechanisms of autistic savant and acquired savant]" [Neurobiological mechanisms of autistic savant and acquired savant]. Sheng Li Xue Bao (in Chinese). 70 (2): 201–210. PMID 29691585.
^ Rimland, Bernard (2015). Infantile autism : the syndrome and its implications for a neural theory of behavior by Bernard Rimland, Ph.D. Internet Archive. London; Philadelphia : Jessica Kingsley Publishers. ISBN 978-1-84905-789-9.
Deer B (8 February 2009). "MMR doctor Andrew Wakefield fixed data on autism". The Sunday Times.
More generally, autistic people tend to show a 'spiky skills profile', with strong abilities in some areas contrasting with much weaker abilities in others.[83]
^ Piggot J, Shirinyan D, Shemmassian S, Vazirian S, Alarcón M (November 2009). "Neural systems approaches to the neurogenetics of autism spectrum disorders". Neuroscience. 164 (1): 247–256. doi:10.1016/j.neuroscience.2009.05.054. PMID 19482063. S2CID 207246176.
"Autism in the DSM – The Autism History Project". blogs.uoregon.edu. Retrieved 2 January 2023.
^ Gallese, V.; Fadiga, L.; Fogassi, L.; Rizzolatti, Giacomo (1996). "Action recognition in the premotor cortex". Brain. 119 (2): 593–609. doi:10.1093/brain/119.2.593. PMID 8800951.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Bonati M, Cartabia M, Clavenna A (January 2022). "Still too much delay in recognition of autism spectrum disorder". Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences. Cambridge University Press. 31 (e1): e1. doi:10.1017/S2045796021000822. LCCN 2011243374. OCLC 727338545. PMC 8786613. PMID 35012703. S2CID 245851335.
Freaks, Geeks, and Asperger Syndrome: A User Guide to Adolescence
^ Zwaigenbaum L, Bryson S, Lord C, Rogers S, Carter A, Carver L,et al. (May 2009). "Clinical assessment and management of toddlers with suspected autism spectrum disorder: insights from studies of high-risk infants". Pediatrics. 123 (5): 1383–91. doi:10.1542/peds.2008-1606. PMC 2833286. PMID 19403506.
^ Loukusa S (2021). "Autism Spectrum Disorder".In Cummings L (ed.). Handbook of pragmatic language disorders : complex and underserved populations. Cham, Switzerland: Springer. pp. 45–78. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-74985-9_3. ISBN 978-3-030-74984-2. OCLC 1269056169. S2CID 239160368.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Chen JA, Peñagarikano O, Belgard TG, Swarup V, Geschwind DH (2015). "The emerging picture of autism spectrum disorder: genetics and pathology". Annu Rev Pathol (Review). 10: 111–44. doi:10.1146/annurev-pathol-012414-040405. PMID 25621659.
Neurodiversity employment services organisation "Untapped Group"[399] operates in the United States and Australia, and notably organises the prominent "Autism at Work"[400] conferences.
Human multitaskingMedia multitaskingMobile phones and driving safetyPhubbingSmartphones and pedestrian safetyTexting while driving
"Factors associated with age of diagnosis among children with autism spectrum disorders"
The New Latin word autismus (English translation autism) was coined by the Swiss psychiatrist Eugen Bleuler in 1910 as he was defining symptoms of his new concept of schizophrenia. He derived it from the Greek word: αὐτός, romanized: autós, lit. 'self' and used it to mean morbid self-admiration, referring to "autistic withdrawal of the patient to his fantasies, against which any influence from outside becomes an intolerable disturbance".[352]
Wiznitzer M (September 2004). "Autism and tuberous sclerosis". Journal of Child Neurology. 19 (9): 675–9. doi:10.1177/08830738040190090701. PMID 15563013. S2CID 38157900.
Both Asperger and Kanner believed that "autism" was a separate condition to schizophrenia, seeing significant differences between the two.
Halsey NA, Hyman SL (May 2001). "Measles-mumps-rubella vaccine and autistic spectrum disorder: report from the New Challenges in Childhood Immunizations Conference convened in Oak Brook, Illinois, June 12-13, 2000". Pediatrics. 107 (5): E84. doi:10.1542/peds.107.5.e84. PMID 11331734.
1970 also saw the release of the English translation of Gerhard Bosch's 1962 book as Infantile autism: a clinical and phenomenological-anthropological investigation taking language as the guide.[369] It was translated by Derek and Inge Jordan, and included an introduction from Bruno Bettelheim. It used the term "Asperger's syndrome" to describe the symptoms of Asperger's patients.[370]
^ Reiss AL (January 2009). "Childhood developmental disorders: an academic and clinical convergence point for psychiatry, neurology, psychology and pediatrics". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 50 (1–2): 87–98. doi:10.1111/j.1469-7610.2008.02046.x. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMC 5756732. PMID 19220592.
^ Tye C, Runicles AK, Whitehouse AJ, Alvares GA (2019). "Characterizing the Interplay Between Autism Spectrum Disorder and Comorbid Medical Conditions: An Integrative Review". Frontiers in Psychiatry (Review). 9: 751. doi:10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00751. PMC 6354568. PMID 30733689.
Dover CJ, Le Couteur A (June 2007). "How to diagnose autism". Archives of Disease in Childhood. 92 (6): 540–545. doi:10.1136/adc.2005.086280. PMC 2066173. PMID 17515625.
Lorna Wing's February 1981 publication of a series of case studies (Asperger's Syndrome: A Clinical Account), greatly increased awareness of the existence of normal and high IQ people with autistic traits by clinicians.[375][376][377] She also greatly increased awareness of Hans Asperger's work.
Wallis KE, Pinto-Martin J (May 2008). "The challenge of screening for autism spectrum disorder in a culturally diverse society". Acta Paediatrica. 97 (5): 539–540. doi:10.1111/j.1651-2227.2008.00720.x. PMID 18373717. S2CID 39744269.
"The association between autism and schizophrenia spectrum disorders: A review of eight alternate models of co-occurrence"
Richdale AL, Schreck KA (December 2009). "Sleep problems in autism spectrum disorders: prevalence, nature, & possible biopsychosocial aetiologies". Sleep Medicine Reviews. 13 (6): 403–411. doi:10.1016/j.smrv.2009.02.003. PMID 19398354.
^ a b c d e O'Reilly C, Lewis JD, Elsabbagh M (2017). "Is functional brain connectivity atypical in autism? A systematic review of EEG and MEG studies". PLOS ONE (Review). 12 (5): e0175870. Bibcode:2017PLoSO..1275870O. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0175870. PMC 5414938. PMID 28467487.
^ a b Kanne SM, Randolph JK, Farmer JE (December 2008). "Diagnostic and assessment findings: a bridge to academic planning for children with autism spectrum disorders". Neuropsychology Review. 18 (4): 367–384. doi:10.1007/s11065-008-9072-z. PMID 18855144. S2CID 21108225.
Males have higher likelihood of being diagnosed with ASD than females. The sex ratio averages 4.3:1 and is greatly modified by cognitive impairment: it may be close to 2:1 with intellectual disability and more than 5.5:1 without.[130] Several theories about the higher prevalence in males have been investigated, but the cause of the difference is unconfirmed;[347] one theory is that females are underdiagnosed.[348]
^ Barnhill GP (2007). "Outcomes in adults with Asperger syndrome". Focus on Autism and Other Developmental Disabilities. 22 (2): 116–126. doi:10.1177/10883576070220020301. S2CID 1355689.
6Management											Toggle Management subsection																					6.1Non-pharmacological interventions																								6.1.1Education																														6.2Pharmacological interventions																											6.3Alternative medicine																											6.4Prevention
^ Kanner L (1943). "Autistic disturbances of affective contact". Acta Paedopsychiatrica. 35 (4): 100–136. PMID 4880460. Reprinted in Kanner L (1968). "Autistic disturbances of affective contact". Acta Paedopsychiatrica. 35 (4): 100–136. PMID 4880460.
Ganz ML (April 2007). "The lifetime distribution of the incremental societal costs of autism". Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine. 161 (4): 343–349. doi:10.1001/archpedi.161.4.343. PMID 17404130.
^ Opar A (24 April 2019). "In search of truce in the autism wars". Spectrum. Simons Foundation. Archived from the original on 3 May 2019. Retrieved 9 July 2022.
^ "Making information and the words we use accessible". NHS England. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
"Facial expression production and recognition in autism spectrum disorders: a shifting landscape"
"Inclusion of Learners with Autism Spectrum Disorders in General Education Settings"
^ Wilkinson B, Grepo N, Thompson BL, Kim J, Wang K, Evgrafov OV,et al. (May 2015). "The autism-associated gene chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 8 (CHD8) regulates noncoding RNAs and autism-related genes". Translational Psychiatry. 5 (5): e568. doi:10.1038/tp.2015.62. PMC 4471293. PMID 25989142.
Infantile autism; a clinical and phenomenological-anthropological investigation taking language as the guide
"Social communication and language characteristics associated with high-functioning, verbal children and adults with autism spectrum disorder"
"Autistic Pride Day 2015: A Message to the Autistic Community"
^ Waterhouse L (December 2008). "Autism overflows: increasing prevalence and proliferating theories". Neuropsychology Review. 18 (4): 273–286. doi:10.1007/s11065-008-9074-x. PMID 19015994. S2CID 8863638.
^ Dawson G, Osterling J (1997). "Early Intervention in Autism".In Guralnick MJ (ed.). The effectiveness of early intervention. Baltimore: Brookes. pp. 307–326. ISBN 1-55766-255-X. OCLC 34411043. ERIC ED414694.
"Pathophysiology of autism spectrum disorders: revisiting gastrointestinal involvement and immune imbalance"
^ "Frequently Asked Questions about Thimerosal". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 21 February 2017.
Russell G, Kapp SK, Elliott D, Elphick C, Gwernan-Jones R, Owens C (13 April 2019). "Mapping the Autistic Advantage from the Accounts of Adults Diagnosed with Autism: A Qualitative Study". Autism in Adulthood. 1 (2): 124–133. doi:10.1089/aut.2018.0035. PMC 6493410. PMID 31058260. S2CID 142504027.
^ White SW, Oswald D, Ollendick T, Scahill L (April 2009). "Anxiety in children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorders". Clinical Psychology Review. 29 (3): 216–229. doi:10.1016/j.cpr.2009.01.003. PMC 2692135. PMID 19223098.
^ Dapretto, M; Davies, MS; Pfeifer, JH; Scott, AA; Sigman, M; Bookheimer, SY; Iacoboni, M (2006). "Understanding emotions in others: mirror neuron dysfunction in children with autism spectrum disorders". Nature Neuroscience. 9 (1): 28–30. doi:10.1038/nn1611. PMC 3713227. PMID 16327784.
The Asperkids' (Secret) Book of Social Rules: The Handbook of Not-So-Obvious Guidelines for Teens and Tweens was published by American social worker Jennifer Cook O'Toole in 2012. It would win the Autism Society of America's “Temple Grandin Outstanding Literary Work of the Year”. Jennifer would go on to write a number of other books about autism.
Human factors and ergonomicsCognitive ergonomicsComputer-mediated communicationEngineering psychologyHuman–computer interactionMedia naturalness theoryNeuroergonomics
^ Treffert DA (May 2009). "The savant syndrome: an extraordinary condition. A synopsis: past, present, future". Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological Sciences. 364 (1522): 1351–1357. doi:10.1098/rstb.2008.0326. PMC 2677584. PMID 19528017.
Lugnegård T, Hallerbäck MU, Gillberg C (May 2012). "Personality disorders and autism spectrum disorders: what are the connections?". Comprehensive Psychiatry. 53 (4): 333–40. doi:10.1016/j.comppsych.2011.05.014. PMID 21821235.
Johnson CP, Myers SM (November 2007). "Identification and evaluation of children with autism spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. American Academy of Pediatrics. 120 (5): 1183–1215. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-2361. PMID 17967920. S2CID 218028., cited in Blumberg SJ, Zablotsky B, Avila RM, Colpe LJ, Pringle BA, Kogan MD (October 2016). "Diagnosis lost: Differences between children who had and who currently have an autism spectrum disorder diagnosis". Autism. 20 (7): 783–795. doi:10.1177/1362361315607724. PMC 4838550. PMID 26489772.
A range of social-emotional reciprocity difficulties (an individual's ability to naturally engage in social interactions) may be present. Autistic individuals may lack mutual sharing of interests; many autistic children prefer not to play or interact with others. They may lack awareness or understanding of other people's thoughts or feelings: a child may get too close to peers (entering their personal space) without noticing that this makes them uncomfortable. They may also engage in atypical behaviors to gain attention: a child may push a peer to gain attention before starting a conversation.[55]
^ a b Helt M, Kelley E, Kinsbourne M, Pandey J, Boorstein H, Herbert M, Fein D (December 2008). "Can children with autism recover? If so, how?". Neuropsychology Review. 18 (4): 339–366. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.695.2995. doi:10.1007/s11065-008-9075-9. PMID 19009353. S2CID 4317267.
Hyman SL, Stewart PA, Foley J, Cain U, Peck R, Morris DD,et al. (January 2016). "The Gluten-Free/Casein-Free Diet: A Double-Blind Challenge Trial in Children with Autism". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 46 (1): 205–220. doi:10.1007/s10803-015-2564-9. PMID 26343026. S2CID 12884691. 20 natural challenges when parents reported that children by mistake consumed foods containing gluten or casein.
^ Praslova, Ludmila N. (2022). To build a healthy workplace, you need a toxic culture alarm Fast Company, 14 March 2022.
Wazana A, Bresnahan M, Kline J (June 2007). "The autism epidemic: fact or artifact?". Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. 46 (6): 721–730. doi:10.1097/chi.0b013e31804a7f3b. PMID 17513984.
DSM-5-TR, "Hyper- or hyporeactivity to sensory input or unusual interest in sensory aspects of the environment (e.g., apparent indifference to pain/temperature, adverse response to specific sounds or textures, excessive smelling or touching of objects, visual fascination with lights or movement)".
Rutter M (January 2005). "Incidence of autism spectrum disorders: changes over time and their meaning". Acta Paediatrica. 94 (1): 2–15. doi:10.1111/j.1651-2227.2005.tb01779.x. PMID 15858952. S2CID 79259285.
"UCLA/Lovaas Intervention". Association for Science in Autism Treatment. Retrieved 6 January 2023.
"An Examination of Autism Spectrum Disorders in Relation to Human Evolution and Life History Theory"
Everybody Is Different: A Book for Young People Who Have Brothers or Sisters With Autism
^ a b Solomon, Debra (2018). The History of the Autism Puzzle Piece Ribbon. Spectrum Strategies.
The DSM-III (1980) redefined the childhood type of schizophrenia as three kinds of "pervasive developmental disorder" (PDD). "Infantile autism" began before a child was 30 months old, and "childhood onset pervasive developmental disorder" began between 30 months and 12 years. A third variety, "Atypical pervasive developmental disorder" was similar but lesser than the other two, and could begin at any time.[374]
Clarke J, van Amerom G (2007). "'Surplus suffering': differences between organizational understandings of Asperger's syndrome and those people who claim the 'disorder'". Disability & Society. 22 (7): 761–76. doi:10.1080/09687590701659618. S2CID 145736625.
^ "Timeline – The Autism History Project". blogs.uoregon.edu. Retrieved 2 January 2023.
Stanfield AC, McIntosh AM, Spencer MD, Philip R, Gaur S, Lawrie SM (June 2008). "Towards a neuroanatomy of autism: a systematic review and meta-analysis of structural magnetic resonance imaging studies". European Psychiatry. 23 (4): 289–99. doi:10.1016/j.eurpsy.2007.05.006. PMID 17765485. S2CID 29070618.
"Chd8 regulates X chromosome inactivation in mouse through fine-tuning control of Xist expression"
Leskovec TJ, Rowles BM, Findling RL (2008). "Pharmacological treatment options for autism spectrum disorders in children and adolescents". Harvard Review of Psychiatry. 16 (2): 97–112. doi:10.1080/10673220802075852. PMID 18415882. S2CID 26112061.
^ a b Geschwind DH (2009). "Advances in autism". Annual Review of Medicine. 60: 367–380. doi:10.1146/annurev.med.60.053107.121225. PMC 3645857. PMID 19630577.
^ a b c Abrahams BS, Geschwind DH (May 2008). "Advances in autism genetics: on the threshold of a new neurobiology". Nature Reviews. Genetics. 9 (5): 341–355. doi:10.1038/nrg2346. PMC 2756414. PMID 18414403.
^ Schenkman, Lauren (21 February 2023). "Dietary changes ease traits in rare autism-linked condition". Spectrum | Autism Research News. Retrieved 23 February 2023.
^ McGee M (August 2012). "Neurodiversity". Contexts. 11 (3): 12–13. doi:10.1177/1536504212456175. S2CID 220720495.
^ Tsakanikos E, Underwood L, Kravariti E, Bouras N, McCarthy J (2011). "Gender differences in co-morbid psychopathology and clinical management in adults with autism spectrum disorders". Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders. 5 (2): 803–808. doi:10.1016/j.rasd.2010.09.009. ISSN 1750-9467.
^ "DSM-5 Diagnostic Criteria". U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee. Retrieved 17 May 2017.
Rimland, Bernard (2015). Infantile autism : the syndrome and its implications for a neural theory of behavior by Bernard Rimland, Ph.D. Internet Archive. London; Philadelphia : Jessica Kingsley Publishers. ISBN 978-1-84905-789-9.
^ "The Autism Rights Movement". nymag.com. Retrieved 26 October 2021.
The cost of educating a student with ASD in the US would be about $20,600 while educating an average student would be about $12,000.[318]
Muzikar, Debra (2019). "The Autism Puzzle Piece: A symbol that's going to stay or go?". The Art of Autism.
"A Brief History of Pathological Demand Avoidance". www.autismawareness.com.au. Retrieved 2 January 2023.
^ "Autism case training part 1: A closer look – key developmental milestones". CDC.gov. 18 August 2016. Retrieved 5 August 2019.
Decreased connectivity between different specialized regions of the brain (e.g. lower neuron density in corpus callosum) and relative over-connectivity within specialized regions of the brain by adulthood. Connectivity between different regions of the brain ('long-range' connectivity) is important for integration and global processing of information and comparing incoming sensory information with the existing model of the world within the brain. Connections within each specialized regions ('short-range' connections) are important for processing individual details and modifying the existing model of the world within the brain to more closely reflect incoming sensory information. In infancy, children at high risk for autism that were later diagnosed with autism were observed to have abnormally high long-range connectivity which then decreased through childhood to eventual long-range under-connectivity by adulthood.[169]
Increased number of astrocytes and microglia in the cerebral cortex. These cells provide metabolic and functional support to neurons and act as immune cells in the nervous system, respectively.[117]
"NIMH » Autism Spectrum Disorder". National Institute of Mental Health (US). National Institutes of Health (US). Retrieved 8 April 2021.
"Clustering the autisms using glutamate synapse protein interaction networks from cortical and hippocampal tissue of seven mouse models"
^ Baron-Cohen S (10 November 2020). The pattern seekers: how autism drives human invention. ISBN 978-1-5416-4713-8. OCLC 1204602315.
For example:US Preventive Services Task Force does not recommend universal screen of young children for autism due to poor evidence of benefits of this screening when parents and clinicians have no concerns about ASD. The major concern is a false-positive diagnosis that would burden a family with very time-consuming and financially demanding treatment interventions when it is not truly required. The Task Force also did not find any robust studies showing effectiveness of behavioral therapies in reducing ASD symptom severity.[203]American Academy of Pediatrics recommends ASD screening of all children between the ages if 18 and 24 months.[203] The AAP also recommends that children who screen positive for ASD be referred to treatment services without waiting for a comprehensive diagnostic workup[204]The American Academy of Family Physicians did not find sufficient evidence of benefit of universal early screening for ASD[203]The American Academy of Neurology and Child Neurology Society recommends general routine screening for delayed or abnormal development in children followed by screening for ASD only if indicated by the general developmental screening[203]The American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry recommend routinely screening autism symptoms in young children[203]
^ Happé F (1999). "Understanding assets and deficits in autism: why success is more interesting than failure" (PDF). Psychologist. 12 (11): 540–547. Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 May 2012.
Harmon A (20 December 2004). "How about not 'curing' us, some autistics are pleading". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 11 May 2013.
^ a b Thompson BA, Tremblay V, Lin G, Bochar DA (June 2008). "CHD8 is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor that regulates beta-catenin target genes". Molecular and Cellular Biology. 28 (12): 3894–3904. doi:10.1128/mcb.00322-08. PMC 2423111. PMID 18378692.
{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Hyman SL, Stewart PA, Foley J, Cain U, Peck R, Morris DD,et al. (January 2016). "The Gluten-Free/Casein-Free Diet: A Double-Blind Challenge Trial in Children with Autism". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 46 (1): 205–220. doi:10.1007/s10803-015-2564-9. PMID 26343026. S2CID 12884691. 20 natural challenges when parents reported that children by mistake consumed foods containing gluten or casein.
Helverschou SB, Bakken TL, Martinsen H (2011). "Psychiatric Disorders in People with Autism Spectrum Disorders: Phenomenology and Recognition".In Matson JL, Sturmey P (eds.). International handbook of autism and pervasive developmental disorders. New York: Springer. pp. 53–74. ISBN 9781441980649. OCLC 746203105.
Treffert DA (May 2009). "The savant syndrome: an extraordinary condition. A synopsis: past, present, future". Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological Sciences. 364 (1522): 1351–1357. doi:10.1098/rstb.2008.0326. PMC 2677584. PMID 19528017.
"Characterizing the Interplay Between Autism Spectrum Disorder and Comorbid Medical Conditions: An Integrative Review"
^ a b Tracy A Becerra-Culqui; Frances L Lynch; Ashli A Owen-Smith; Joseph Spitzer; Lisa A Croen (1 October 2018). "Parental First Concerns and Timing of Autism Spectrum Disorder Diagnosis". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 48 (10): 3367–3376. doi:10.1007/S10803-018-3598-6. ISSN 0162-3257. PMID 29754290. Wikidata Q88651632.
Ballaban-Gil K, Tuchman R (2000). "Epilepsy and epileptiform EEG: association with autism and language disorders". Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews. 6 (4): 300–8. doi:10.1002/1098-2779(2000)6:43.0.CO;2-R. PMID 11107195.
Functions of the temporal lobe are related to many of the deficits observed in individuals with ASDs, such as receptive language, social cognition, joint attention, action observation, and empathy. The temporal lobe also contains the superior temporal sulcus and the fusiform face area, which may mediate facial processing. It has been argued that dysfunction in the superior temporal sulcus underlies the social deficits that characterize autism. Compared to neurotypical individuals, one study found that individuals with so-called high-functioning autism had reduced activity in the fusiform face area when viewing pictures of faces.[173][verification needed]
"Maternal lifestyle and environmental risk factors for autism spectrum disorders"
Siafis S, Çıray O, Wu H, Schneider-Thoma J, Bighelli I, Krause M, Rodolico A, Ceraso A, Deste G, Huhn M, Fraguas D, San José Cáceres A, Mavridis D, Charman T, Murphy DG, Parellada M, Arango C, Leucht S (2022). "Pharmacological and dietary-supplement treatments for autism spectrum disorder: a systematic review and network meta-analysis". Molecular Autism. 13 (1): 10. doi:10.1186/s13229-022-00488-4. PMC 8896153. PMID 35246237.
It is proposed that inflammation within the brain promoted by inflammatory responses to harmful gut microbiome impacts brain development.[171]
Manzi B, Loizzo AL, Giana G, Curatolo P (March 2008). "Autism and metabolic diseases". Journal of Child Neurology. 23 (3): 307–314. doi:10.1177/0883073807308698. PMID 18079313. S2CID 30809774.
Several hypotheses have been presented that try to explain how and why autism develops by integrating known causes (genetic and environmental effects) and findings (neurobiological and somatic). Some are more comprehensive, such as the Pathogenetic Triad,[147] which proposes and operationalizes three core features (an autistic personality, cognitive compensation, neuropathological burden) that interact to cause autism, and the Intense World Theory,[148] which explains autism through a hyper-active neurobiology that leads to an increased perception, attention, memory, and emotionality. There are also simpler hypotheses that explain only individual parts of the neurobiology or phenotype of autism, such as mind-blindness (a decreased ability for theory of mind), the weak central coherence theory, or the extreme male brain and empathising–systemising theory.
"Measles-mumps-rubella vaccine and autistic spectrum disorder: report from the New Challenges in Childhood Immunizations Conference convened in Oak Brook, Illinois, June 12-13, 2000"
^ Minshew NJ (April 1996). "Brief report: brain mechanisms in autism: functional and structural abnormalities". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 26 (2): 205–9. doi:10.1007/BF02172013. PMID 8744486. S2CID 8134205.
Roux AM, Rast JE, Rava JA, Anderson KA, Shattuck PT (31 August 2015). "Employment Outcomes of Young Adults on the Autism Spectrum". Life Course Outcomes Research Program, A.J. Drexel Autism Institute. Philadelphia, PA: Drexel University.
^ Rizzolatti G, Fabbri-Destro M (January 2010). "Mirror neurons: from discovery to autism". Experimental Brain Research. 200 (3–4): 223–37. doi:10.1007/s00221-009-2002-3. PMID 19760408. S2CID 3342808.
Autistic people experience deficits in their ability to develop, maintain, and understand relationships, as well as difficulties adjusting behavior to fit social contexts.[57] ASD presents with impairments in pragmatic communication skills, such as difficulty initiating a conversation or failure to consider the listener's interests to sustain a conversation.[55][verification needed] The ability to be focused exclusively on one topic in communication is known as monotropism, and can be compared to "tunnel vision". It is common for autistic people to communicate strong interest in a specific topic, speaking in lesson-like monologues about their passion instead of enabling reciprocal communication.[58] What may look like self-involvement or indifference to others stems from a struggle to recognize or remember that other people have their own personalities, perspectives, and interests.[59][60] Another difference in pragmatic communication skills is that autistic people may not recognize the need to control the volume of their voice in different social settings; for example, they may speak loudly in libraries or movie theaters.[61]
Autistic people may also experience difficulties with verbal communication. Differences in communication may be present from the first year of life, and may include delayed onset of babbling, unusual gestures, diminished responsiveness, and vocal patterns that are not synchronized with the caregiver. In the second and third years, autistic children have less frequent and less diverse babbling, consonants, words, and word combinations; their gestures are less often integrated with words. Autistic children are less likely to make requests or share experiences, and are more likely to simply repeat others' words (echolalia).[65] Joint attention seems to be necessary for functional speech, and deficits in joint attention seem to distinguish autistic infants.[66] For example, they may look at a pointing hand instead of the object to which the hand is pointing,[67][65] and they consistently fail to point at objects in order to comment on or share an experience.[66] Autistic children may have difficulty with imaginative play and with developing symbols into language.[65] Some autistic linguistic behaviors include repetitive or rigid language, and restricted interests in conversation. For example, a child might repeat words or insist on always talking about the same subject.[55] Echolalia may also be present in autistic individuals, for example by responding to a question by repeating the inquiry instead of answering.[58] Language impairment is also common in autistic children, but is not part of a diagnosis.[55] Many autistic children develop language skills at an uneven pace where they easily acquire some aspects of communication, while never fully developing others,[58] such as in some cases of hyperlexia. In some cases, individuals remain completely nonverbal throughout their lives. The CDC estimated that around 40% of autistic children don't speak at all, although the accompanying levels of literacy and nonverbal communication skills vary.[68]
Haas RH, Parikh S, Falk MJ, Saneto RP, Wolf NI, Darin N, Cohen BH (December 2007). "Mitochondrial disease: a practical approach for primary care physicians". Pediatrics. 120 (6): 1326–1333. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-0391. PMID 18055683. S2CID 4939996.
Autistic people display atypical nonverbal behaviors or have difficulties with nonverbal communication. They may make infrequent eye contact: an autistic person may not make eye contact when called by name, or may avoid eye contact with an observer. Aversion of gaze can also be seen in anxiety disorders, but poor eye contact in autistic children is not due to shyness or anxiety; rather, it is overall diminished in quantity. Autistic people may struggle with both production and understanding of facial expressions. They often do not know how to recognize emotions from others' facial expressions, or may not respond with appropriate facial expressions. They may have trouble recognizing subtle expressions of emotion and identifying what various emotions mean for the conversation.[62][58] A defining feature is that autistic people have social impairments and often lack intuitions about others that many people take for granted. Temple Grandin, an autistic woman involved in autism activism, described her inability to understand the social communication of neurotypicals, or people with typical neural development, as leaving her feeling "like an anthropologist on Mars".[63] They may also not pick up on body language or social cues such as eye contact and facial expressions if they provide more information than the person can process at that time. They struggle with understanding the context and subtext of conversational or printed situations, and have trouble forming resulting conclusions about the content. This also results in a lack of social awareness and atypical language expression.[59] How facial expressions differ between those on the autism spectrum and neurotypical individuals is not clear.[64] Further, at least half of autistic children have unusual prosody.[61]
^ Arndt TL, Stodgell CJ, Rodier PM (2005). "The teratology of autism". International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience. 23 (2–3): 189–199. doi:10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2004.11.001. PMID 15749245. S2CID 17797266.
Zwaigenbaum L, Bryson S, Lord C, Rogers S, Carter A, Carver L,et al. (May 2009). "Clinical assessment and management of toddlers with suspected autism spectrum disorder: insights from studies of high-risk infants". Pediatrics. 123 (5): 1383–91. doi:10.1542/peds.2008-1606. PMC 2833286. PMID 19403506.
Werner E, Dawson G, Munson J, Osterling J (June 2005). "Variation in early developmental course in autism and its relation with behavioral outcome at 3-4 years of age". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 35 (3): 337–50. doi:10.1007/s10803-005-3301-6. PMID 16119475. S2CID 22485657.
^ a b CDC (31 March 2022). "Screening and Diagnosis | Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) | NCBDDD". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 12 September 2022.
^ Orsmond GI, Seltzer MM (2007). "Siblings of individuals with autism spectrum disorders across the life course" (PDF). Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews. 13 (4): 313–320. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.359.7273. doi:10.1002/mrdd.20171. PMID 17979200. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 May 2013.
There are many signs associated with autism; the presentation varies widely:[45][46]
^ a b c d Filipek PA, Accardo PJ, Baranek GT, Cook EH, Dawson G, Gordon B,et al. (December 1999). "The screening and diagnosis of autistic spectrum disorders". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 29 (6): 439–484. doi:10.1023/A:1021943802493. PMID 10638459. S2CID 145113684. This paper represents a consensus of representatives from nine professional and four parent organizations in the US.
Praslova, Ludmila N. (1 April 2022). "Your "Autism Awareness Day" Might Be Excluding Autistic People". Harvard Business Review. ISSN 0017-8012. Retrieved 8 February 2023.
^ Bascom J (18 June 2015). "Autistic Pride Day 2015: A Message to the Autistic Community". Retrieved 18 November 2015.
^ "Early Infantile Autism and the Refrigerator Mother Theory (1943-1970) | The Embryo Project Encyclopedia". embryo.asu.edu. Retrieved 6 October 2022.
^ Folstein SE, Rosen-Sheidley B (December 2001). "Genetics of autism: complex aetiology for a heterogeneous disorder". Nature Reviews. Genetics. 2 (12): 943–955. doi:10.1038/35103559. PMID 11733747. S2CID 9331084.
"Why Asperger's Syndrome is no longer listed in the DSM"
Boseley S (2 February 2010). "Lancet retracts 'utterly false' MMR paper". The Guardian.
Franco, Janelle (2014). "Puzzle Piece Project and Autism Awareness Month." Autism Speaks.
Silverman C (1 September 2008). "Fieldwork on Another Planet: Social Science Perspectives on the Autism Spectrum". BioSocieties. 3 (3): 325–341. doi:10.1017/S1745855208006236. ISSN 1745-8560. S2CID 145379758.
^ a b c Wolff S (August 2004). "The history of autism". European Child & Adolescent Psychiatry. 13 (4): 201–208. doi:10.1007/s00787-004-0363-5. PMID 15365889. S2CID 6106042.
^ Opar A (6 May 2019). "A medical condition or just a difference? The question roils autism community". The Washington Post. spectrumnews.org. ISSN 0190-8286. Archived from the original on 7 May 2019. Retrieved 23 April 2022.
Higher rates of self-injury are also noted in socially isolated individuals with autism. Studies have shown that socialization skills are related factors to self injurious behavior for individuals with autism.[76]
Satterstrom FK, Kosmicki JA, Wang J, Breen MS, De Rubeis S, An JY,et al. (February 2020). "Large-Scale Exome Sequencing Study Implicates Both Developmental and Functional Changes in the Neurobiology of Autism". Cell. 180 (3): 568–584.e23. doi:10.1016/j.cell.2019.12.036. PMC 7250485. PMID 31981491.
^ Mantovani JF (May 2000). "Autistic regression and Landau-Kleffner syndrome: progress or confusion?". Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology. 42 (5): 349–353. doi:10.1017/S0012162200210621. PMID 10855658.
^ Ssucharewa, G.G. "Die schizoiden Psychopathien im Kindesalter" (PDF) (in German). Retrieved 2 February 2023.
Compulsive behaviors: Time-consuming behaviors intended to reduce anxiety, that an individual feels compelled to perform repeatedly or according to rigid rules, such as placing objects in a specific order, checking things, or handwashing.
A number of discrete brain regions and networks among regions that are involved in dealing with other people have been discussed together under the rubric of the social brain. As of 2012[update], there is a consensus that autism spectrum is likely related to problems with interconnectivity among these regions and networks, rather than problems with any specific region or network.[172]
"How to talk about autism". www.autism.org.uk. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
Cohen D, Grandin T (25 October 2005). "Temple Grandin: 'I'm an anthropologist from Mars'". The Guardian. Kings Place, London: Scott Trust. eISSN 1756-3224. ISSN 0261-3077. OCLC 60623878. Archived from the original on 9 November 2013. Retrieved 6 July 2022.
"Gastrointestinal symptoms and autism spectrum disorder: links and risks - a possible new overlap syndrome"
Kuhn R (September 2004). "Eugen Bleuler's concepts of psychopathology". History of Psychiatry. 15 (59 Pt 3): 361–366. doi:10.1177/0957154X04044603. PMID 15386868. S2CID 5317716. The quote is a translation of Bleuler's 1910 original.
Loftus Y (24 November 2021). "CEASE Therapy for Autism: the Controversy of a "Cure"". Autism Parenting Magazine. Autism Parenting Magazine. Archived from the original on 22 September 2022. Retrieved 22 September 2022.
Wing L (February 1981). "Asperger's syndrome: a clinical account". Psychological Medicine. 11 (1): 115–129. doi:10.1017/S0033291700053332. PMID 7208735. S2CID 16046498. Archived from the original on 17 August 2007. Retrieved 15 August 2007.
^ Crompton, Catherine J.; Debrabander, Kilee; Heasman, Brett; Milton, Damian; Sasson, Noah J. (2021). "Double Empathy: Why Autistic People Are Often Misunderstood". Frontiers for Young Minds. 9. doi:10.3389/frym.2021.554875.
No two-word (spontaneous, not just echolalic) phrases by 24 months.
The American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition, Text Revision (DSM-5-TR), released in 2022, is the current version of the DSM. It is the predominant mental health diagnostic system used in the United States and Canada, and is often used in Anglophone countries.
"A Unifying Theory for Autism: The Pathogenetic Triad as a Theoretical Framework"
Hinerman PS (1983). Teaching Autistic Children to Communicate. Rockville, Maryland: Aspens System Corporation. p. 180. ISBN 978-0-89443-884-4.
^ a b Vicker B. "Social communication and language characteristics associated with high-functioning, verbal children and adults with autism spectrum disorder". Indiana Resource Center for Autism. Retrieved 17 December 2017.
The first edition of the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders was released in 1952. Following Bleuler's nomenclature, it defined what is today considered autism as "schizophrenia, childhood type," using the term "autism" to cover one of its symptoms.[359]
"The intense world theory - a unifying theory of the neurobiology of autism"
Bosch, Gerhard (1970). Infantile autism; a clinical and phenomenological-anthropological investigation taking language as the guide. Internet Archive. Berlin, New York, Springer-Verlag.
Stefanatos GA (December 2008). "Regression in autistic spectrum disorders". Neuropsychology Review. 18 (4): 305–319. doi:10.1007/s11065-008-9073-y. PMID 18956241. S2CID 34658024.
Research exploring the evolutionary benefits of autism and associated genes has suggested that autistic people may have played a "unique role in technological spheres and understanding of natural systems" in the course of human development.[149][150] It has been suggested that it may have arisen as "a slight trade off for other traits that are seen as highly advantageous", providing "advantages in tool making and mechanical thinking", with speculation that the condition may "reveal itself to be the result of a balanced polymorphism, like sickle cell anemia, that is advantageous in a certain mixture of genes and disadvantageous in specific combinations".[151]
^ Gardener H, Spiegelman D, Buka SL (August 2011). "Perinatal and neonatal risk factors for autism: a comprehensive meta-analysis". Pediatrics. 128 (2): 344–55. doi:10.1542/peds.2010-1036. PMC 3387855. PMID 21746727.
Brignell A, Chenausky KV, Song H, Zhu J, Suo C, Morgan AT (November 2018). "Communication interventions for autism spectrum disorder in minimally verbal children". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2018 (11): CD012324. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD012324.pub2. PMC 6516977. PMID 30395694.
Restricted interests – An excessive interest in a particular activity, topic, or hobby, and devoting all their attention to it. For example, young children might completely focus on things that spin and ignore everything else. Older children might try to learn everything about a single topic, such as the weather or sports, and perseverate or talk about it constantly.[55]
^ a b c Caronna EB, Milunsky JM, Tager-Flusberg H (June 2008). "Autism spectrum disorders: clinical and research frontiers". Archives of Disease in Childhood. 93 (6): 518–523. doi:10.1136/adc.2006.115337. PMID 18305076. S2CID 18761374.
Most parents report that the onset of autism features appear within the first or second year of life.[301][302] This course of development is fairly gradual, in that parents typically report concerns in development over the first two years of life and diagnosis can be made around 3–4 years of age.[299] Overt features gradually begin after the age of six months, become established by age two or three years,[303] and tend to continue through adulthood, although often in more muted form.[102] Some of the early signs of ASDs in this course include decreased attention at faces, failure to obviously respond when name is called, failure to show interests by showing or pointing, and delayed imaginative play.[304]
Oberman LM, Hubbard EM, McCleery JP, Altschuler EL, Ramachandran VS, Pineda JA., EEG evidence for mirror neuron dysfunction in autism spectral disorders Archived 2007-01-03 at the Wayback Machine, Brain Res Cogn Brain Res.; 24(2):190-8, 2005-06
Zwaigenbaum L, Bauman ML, Choueiri R, Kasari C, Carter A, Granpeesheh D,et al. (October 2015). "Early Intervention for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder Under 3 Years of Age: Recommendations for Practice and Research". Pediatrics. 136 (Supplement 1): S60-81. doi:10.1542/peds.2014-3667E. PMC 9923898. PMID 26430170.
^ Greenburg, Carol; Rosa, Shannon Des Roches (2020),Kapp, Steven K. (ed.), "Two Winding Parent Paths to Neurodiversity Advocacy", Autistic Community and the Neurodiversity Movement: Stories from the Frontline, Singapore: Springer, pp. 155–166, doi:10.1007/978-981-13-8437-0_12, ISBN 978-981-13-8437-0, S2CID 210535612, retrieved 1 March 2023
^ a b Sanchack KE, Thomas CA (December 2016). "Autism Spectrum Disorder: Primary Care Principles". American Family Physician. 94 (12): 972–979. PMID 28075089.
^ Brandler WM, Antaki D, Gujral M, Noor A, Rosanio G, Chapman TR,et al. (April 2016). "Frequency and Complexity of De Novo Structural Mutation in Autism". American Journal of Human Genetics. 98 (4): 667–679. doi:10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.02.018. PMC 4833290. PMID 27018473.
"Practice guideline: Treatment for insomnia and disrupted sleep behavior in children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorder: Report of the Guideline Development, Dissemination, and Implementation Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology"
^ Hughes JE, Ward J, Gruffydd E, Baron-Cohen S, Smith P, Allison C, Simner J (October 2018). "Savant syndrome has a distinct psychological profile in autism". Molecular Autism. 9: 53. doi:10.1186/s13229-018-0237-1. PMC 6186137. PMID 30344992.
Gardener H, Spiegelman D, Buka SL (July 2009). "Prenatal risk factors for autism: comprehensive meta-analysis". The British Journal of Psychiatry. 195 (1): 7–14. doi:10.1192/bjp.bp.108.051672. PMC 3712619. PMID 19567888.
^ Autism spectrum disorder in adults: diagnosis and management, NICE, 14 June 2021, CG142, retrieved 24 October 2021
Kanner L (1943). "Autistic disturbances of affective contact". Acta Paedopsychiatrica. 35 (4): 100–136. PMID 4880460. Reprinted in Kanner L (1968). "Autistic disturbances of affective contact". Acta Paedopsychiatrica. 35 (4): 100–136. PMID 4880460.
Benevides TW, Shore SM, Andresen ML, Caplan R, Cook B, Gassner DL,et al. (August 2020). "Interventions to address health outcomes among autistic adults: A systematic review". Autism. 24 (6): 1345–1359. doi:10.1177/1362361320913664. PMC 7787674. PMID 32390461.
After the regression, the child follows the standard pattern of autistic neurological development. The term regressive autism refers to the appearance that neurological development has reversed; it is actually only the affected developmental skills, rather than the neurology as a whole, that regresses.
Harris J (February 2018). "Leo Kanner and autism: a 75-year perspective". International Review of Psychiatry. 30 (1): 3–17. doi:10.1080/09540261.2018.1455646. PMID 29667863. S2CID 4978549.
^ Filipek PA, Accardo PJ, Ashwal S, Baranek GT, Cook EH, Dawson G,et al. (August 2000). "Practice parameter: screening and diagnosis of autism: report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the Child Neurology Society". Neurology. 55 (4): 468–79. doi:10.1212/wnl.55.4.468. PMID 10953176.
Although popularly used as an alternative treatment for autistic people, as of 2018[update] there is no good evidence to recommend a gluten- and casein-free diet as a standard treatment.[275][276][277] A 2018 review concluded that it may be a therapeutic option for specific groups of children with autism, such as those with known food intolerances or allergies, or with food intolerance markers. The authors analyzed the prospective trials conducted to date that studied the efficacy of the gluten- and casein-free diet in children with ASD (4 in total). All of them compared gluten- and casein-free diet versus normal diet with a control group (2 double-blind randomized controlled trials, 1 double-blind crossover trial, 1 single-blind trial). In two of the studies, whose duration was 12 and 24 months, a significant improvement in ASD symptoms (efficacy rate 50%) was identified. In the other two studies, whose duration was 3 months, no significant effect was observed.[275] The authors concluded that a longer duration of the diet may be necessary to achieve the improvement of the ASD symptoms.[275] Other problems documented in the trials carried out include transgressions of the diet, small sample size, the heterogeneity of the participants and the possibility of a placebo effect.[277][278][279] In the subset of people who have gluten sensitivity there is limited evidence that suggests that a gluten-free diet may improve some autistic behaviors.[280][281][282]
^ Stratton K, Ford A, Rusch E, Clayton EW, eds. (August 2011). "Influenza Vaccine". Adverse Effects of Vaccines: Evidence and Causality. Committee to Review Adverse Effects of Vaccines, Board on Population Health and Public Health Practice. Washington, D.C.: Institute of Medicine/National Academies Press. doi:10.17226/13164. ISBN 978-0-309-21435-3. PMID 24624471.
Resistance to change – A strict adherence to routines such as eating certain foods in a specific order, or taking the same path to school every day.[55] The individual may become distressed if there is any change or disruption to their routine.
^ Marí-Bauset S, Zazpe I, Mari-Sanchis A, Llopis-González A, Morales-Suárez-Varela M (December 2014). "Evidence of the gluten-free and casein-free diet in autism spectrum disorders: a systematic review". Journal of Child Neurology. 29 (12): 1718–1727. doi:10.1177/0883073814531330. hdl:10171/37087. PMID 24789114. S2CID 19874518.
"Social Skills Deficits in Autism Spectrum Disorder: Potential Biological Origins and Progress in Developing Therapeutic Agents"
^ Brugha T, Cooper SA, McManus S, Purdon S, Smith J, Scott FJ,et al. (31 January 2012). "Estimating the prevalence of autism spectrum conditions in adults: extending the 2007 Adult Psychiatric Morbidity Survey" (PDF). The Information Centre for Health and Social Care. National Health Service, UK. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 December 2014. Retrieved 29 December 2014.
There is a significant level of misdiagnosis of autism in neurodevelopmentally typical children; 18–37% of children diagnosed with ASD eventually lose their diagnosis. This high rate of lost diagnosis cannot be accounted for by successful ASD treatment alone. The most common reason parents reported as the cause of lost ASD diagnosis was new information about the child (73.5%), such as a replacement diagnosis. Other reasons included a diagnosis given so the child could receive ASD treatment (24.2%), ASD treatment success or maturation (21%), and parents disagreeing with the initial diagnosis (1.9%).[204][non-primary source needed]
^ Hussain A, Ali S, Ahmed M, Hussain S (July 2018). "The Anti-vaccination Movement: A Regression in Modern Medicine". Cureus. 10 (7): e2919. doi:10.7759/cureus.2919. PMC 6122668. PMID 30186724.
^ Williams Buckley A, Hirtz D, Oskoui M,et al. (March 2020). "Practice guideline: Treatment for insomnia and disrupted sleep behavior in children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorder: Report of the Guideline Development, Dissemination, and Implementation Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology". Neurology. 94 (9): 392–404. doi:10.1212/WNL.0000000000009033. PMC 7238942. PMID 32051244.
Infantile autism : the syndrome and its implications for a neural theory of behavior by Bernard Rimland, Ph.D.
"Practice parameter: screening and diagnosis of autism: report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the Child Neurology Society"
^ "Fake and harmful autism 'treatments'". nhs.uk. 2 May 2019. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
Two substantive autistic characters featured on American television from 2017. The title character of new program The Good Doctor was a young man with autism. Also, a four-year-old autistic girl Muppet named Julia joined the main Sesame Street show, with the assistance of ASAN. These programs subsequently circulated elsewhere.
While infection with rubella during pregnancy causes fewer than 1% of cases of autism,[292] vaccination against rubella can prevent many of those cases.[293]
Rossignol DA, Frye RE (March 2012). "Mitochondrial dysfunction in autism spectrum disorders: a systematic review and meta-analysis". Molecular Psychiatry. 17 (3): 290–314. doi:10.1038/mp.2010.136. PMC 3285768. PMID 21263444.
Wetherby AM, Brosnan-Maddox S, Peace V, Newton L (September 2008). "Validation of the Infant-Toddler Checklist as a broadband screener for autism spectrum disorders from 9 to 24 months of age". Autism. 12 (5): 487–511. doi:10.1177/1362361308094501. PMC 2663025. PMID 18805944.
Schaefer GB, Mendelsohn NJ (January 2008). "Genetics evaluation for the etiologic diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders". Genetics in Medicine. 10 (1): 4–12. doi:10.1097/GIM.0b013e31815efdd7. PMID 18197051. S2CID 4468548.
Ellis Weismer S, Kover ST (December 2015). "Preschool language variation, growth, and predictors in children on the autism spectrum". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 56 (12): 1327–37. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12406. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMC 4565784. PMID 25753577.
Volkmar FR, Wiesner LA (2009). A practical guide to autism: what every parent, family member, and teacher needs to know. Hoboken: Wiley. ISBN 9780470394731. OCLC 748908084. Retrieved 12 July 2022.
^ Bosch, Gerhard (1970). Infantile autism; a clinical and phenomenological-anthropological investigation taking language as the guide. Internet Archive. Berlin, New York, Springer-Verlag.
Augustyn M. "Autism spectrum disorder: Clinical features". UpToDate. Retrieved 22 March 2020.
Tan M, Parkin JE (November 2000). "Route of decomposition of thiomersal (thimerosal)". International Journal of Pharmaceutics. 208 (1–2): 23–34. doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(00)00514-7. PMID 11064208.
^ Altevogt BM, Hanson SL, Leshner AI (June 2008). "Autism and the environment: challenges and opportunities for research". Pediatrics. 121 (6): 1225–1229. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-3000. PMID 18519493. S2CID 24595814. Archived from the original on 15 January 2010.
^ Wiznitzer M (September 2004). "Autism and tuberous sclerosis". Journal of Child Neurology. 19 (9): 675–9. doi:10.1177/08830738040190090701. PMID 15563013. S2CID 38157900.
There is evidence that gut–brain axis abnormalities may be involved.[159][160][161] A 2015 review proposed that immune, gastrointestinal inflammation, malfunction of the autonomic nervous system, gut flora alterations, and food metabolites may cause brain neuroinflammation and dysfunction.[160] A 2016 review concludes that enteric nervous system abnormalities might play a role in neurological disorders such as autism. Neural connections and the immune system are a pathway that may allow diseases originated in the intestine spread to the brain.[161]
^ "A Brief History of Pathological Demand Avoidance". www.autismawareness.com.au. Retrieved 2 January 2023.
^ "Welcome to the Autistic Community". Autistic Self Advocacy Network. Retrieved 21 February 2023.
Du, Xuehong; Jiao, Jianxin; Tseng, Mitchell M. (2003). "Identifying customer need patterns for customization and personalization". Integrated Manufacturing Systems. 14 (5): 387–396. doi:10.1108/09576060310477799.
"Autism Spectrum Disorder: Communication Problems in Children". NIDCD. 18 August 2015. Retrieved 17 December 2017.
"Evolution in health and medicine Sackler colloquium: Comparative genomics of autism and schizophrenia"
^ "HP Australia and Dept of Human Services join the Dandelion Program". www.arnnet.com.au. Retrieved 8 February 2023.
^ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (26 February 2015). "Signs & Symptoms: Autism Spectrum Disorder". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Archived from the original on 10 March 2015. (Also available in Spanish.)
Taylor LE, Swerdfeger AL, Eslick GD (June 2014). "Vaccines are not associated with autism: an evidence-based meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studies". Vaccine. 32 (29): 3623–3629. doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.04.085. PMID 24814559.
Applied behavior analysis (ABA)Discrete trial training (Lovaas)Picture exchange communication system (PECS)Pivotal response treatmentPositive behavior support
Several metabolic defects, such as phenylketonuria, are associated with autistic symptoms.[237][verification needed]
"Obituaries: Bernard Rimland, 78; Author was the father of modern autism research"
"Gene discoveries in autism are biased towards comorbidity with intellectual disability"
Geschwind DH (2009). "Advances in autism". Annual Review of Medicine. 60: 367–380. doi:10.1146/annurev.med.60.053107.121225. PMC 3645857. PMID 19630577.
Autism has a strong genetic basis, although the genetics of autism are complex and it is unclear whether ASD is explained more by rare mutations with major effects, or by rare multi-gene interactions of common genetic variants.[100][101] Complexity arises due to interactions among multiple genes, the environment, and epigenetic factors which do not change DNA sequencing but are heritable and influence gene expression.[102] Many genes have been associated with autism through sequencing the genomes of affected individuals and their parents.[103] However, most of the mutations that increase autism risk have not been identified. Typically, autism cannot be traced to a Mendelian (single-gene) mutation or to a single chromosome abnormality, and none of the genetic syndromes associated with ASD have been shown to selectively cause ASD.[100] Numerous candidate genes have been located, with only small effects attributable to any particular gene.[100] Most loci individually explain less than 1% of cases of autism.[104] As of 2018[update], it appeared that between 74% and 93% of ASD risk is heritable.[71] After an older child is diagnosed with ASD, 7% to 20% of subsequent children are likely to be as well.[71] If parents have one autistic child, they have a 2% to 8% chance of having a second child who is autistic. If the autistic child is an identical twin, the other will be affected 36% to 95% of the time. A fraternal twin is affected up to 31% of the time.[medical citation needed] The large number of autistic people with unaffected family members may result from spontaneous structural variation, such as deletions, duplications or inversions in genetic material during meiosis.[105][106] Hence, a substantial fraction of autism cases may be traceable to genetic causes that are highly heritable but not inherited: that is, the mutation that causes the autism is not present in the parental genome.[107][verification needed]
Another evidence-based intervention that has demonstrated efficacy is a parent training model, which teaches parents how to implement various ABA and DSP techniques themselves.[251] Various DSP programs have been developed to explicitly deliver intervention systems through at-home parent implementation.
Buxbaum JD (2009). "Multiple rare variants in the etiology of autism spectrum disorders". Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience. 11 (1): 35–43. doi:10.31887/DCNS.2009.11.1/jdbuxbaum. PMC 3181906. PMID 19432386.
There are also studies being done to test if certain types of regressive autism have an autoimmune basis.[125]
Mezzich JE (2002). "International surveys on the use of ICD-10 and related diagnostic systems". Psychopathology. 35 (2–3): 72–75. doi:10.1159/000065122. PMID 12145487. S2CID 35857872.
"The lifetime distribution of the incremental societal costs of autism"
O'Reilly C, Lewis JD, Elsabbagh M (2017). "Is functional brain connectivity atypical in autism? A systematic review of EEG and MEG studies". PLOS ONE (Review). 12 (5): e0175870. Bibcode:2017PLoSO..1275870O. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0175870. PMC 5414938. PMID 28467487.
^ Wing L (December 1997). "The autistic spectrum". Lancet. 350 (9093): 1761–1766. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(97)09218-0. PMID 9413479. S2CID 7165992.
Shattuck PT, Grosse SD (2007). "Issues related to the diagnosis and treatment of autism spectrum disorders". Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews. 13 (2): 129–135. doi:10.1002/mrdd.20143. PMID 17563895.
Impairments in social skills present many challenges for autistic people. Deficits in social skills may lead to problems with friendships, romantic relationships, daily living, and vocational success.[49] One study that examined the outcomes of autistic adults found that, compared to the general population, autistic people were less likely to be married, but it is unclear whether this outcome was due to deficits in social skills, intellectual impairment, or another reason.[50] One factor is likely discrimination against autistic people, which is perpetuated by myths—for example, the myth that they have no empathy.[51][52][53]
Spikins P (6 March 2013). "The Stone Age Origins of Autism".In Fitzgerald M (ed.). Recent Advances in Autism Spectrum Disorders - Volume II.
Lyall K, Schmidt RJ, Hertz-Picciotto I (April 2014). "Maternal lifestyle and environmental risk factors for autism spectrum disorders". International Journal of Epidemiology. 43 (2): 443–464. doi:10.1093/ije/dyt282. PMC 3997376. PMID 24518932.
reduced interest in other children or caretakers, possibly with more interest in objects
In the UK, from 1998 to 2018, the autism diagnoses increased by 787%.[330] This increase is largely attributable to changes in diagnostic practices, referral patterns, availability of services, age at diagnosis, and public awareness[342][343][344] (particularly among women),[330] though unidentified environmental risk factors cannot be ruled out.[345] The available evidence does not rule out the possibility that autism's true prevalence has increased;[342] a real increase would suggest directing more attention and funding toward psychosocial factors and changing environmental factors instead of continuing to focus on genetics.[346] It has been established that vaccination is not a risk factor for autism and is not a cause of any increase in autism prevalence rates, if any change in the rate of autism exists at all.[144]
^ Russell G, Kapp SK, Elliott D, Elphick C, Gwernan-Jones R, Owens C (13 April 2019). "Mapping the Autistic Advantage from the Accounts of Adults Diagnosed with Autism: A Qualitative Study". Autism in Adulthood. 1 (2): 124–133. doi:10.1089/aut.2018.0035. PMC 6493410. PMID 31058260. S2CID 142504027.
^ Montes G, Halterman JS (July 2008). "Child care problems and employment among families with preschool-aged children with autism in the United States". Pediatrics. 122 (1): e202–e208. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-3037. PMID 18595965. S2CID 22686553. Archived from the original on 6 December 2009.
"'Big Bang Theory': Jim Parsons – 'Everybody has a little Sheldon in them'"
"Autism Spectrum Disorder" (PDF). American Psychiatric Disorder. Retrieved 2 February 2023.
Vicker B. "Social communication and language characteristics associated with high-functioning, verbal children and adults with autism spectrum disorder". Indiana Resource Center for Autism. Retrieved 17 December 2017.
"Autism Sunday – Home". Autism Sunday. 2010. Archived from the original on 3 March 2010. Retrieved 17 November 2015.
^ Kennedy DP, Adolphs R (November 2012). "The social brain in psychiatric and neurological disorders". Trends in Cognitive Sciences. 16 (11): 559–72. doi:10.1016/j.tics.2012.09.006. PMC 3606817. PMID 23047070.
^ a b Taylor LE, Swerdfeger AL, Eslick GD (June 2014). "Vaccines are not associated with autism: an evidence-based meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studies". Vaccine. 32 (29): 3623–3629. doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.04.085. PMID 24814559.
Ishikawa, Gen; Ichihashi, Kayo (March 2007). "[Autistic psychopathy or pervasive developmental disorder: how has Asperger's syndrome changed in the past sixty years?]". Nihon Rinsho. Japanese Journal of Clinical Medicine. 65 (3): 409–418. ISSN 0047-1852. PMID 17354550.
"The Autism Puzzle Piece: A symbol that's going to stay or go?".
Smith T, Iadarola S (2 November 2015). "Evidence Base Update for Autism Spectrum Disorder". Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 44 (6): 897–922. doi:10.1080/15374416.2015.1077448. ISSN 1537-4416. PMID 26430947.
Sleep problems affect about two-thirds of individuals with ASD at some point in childhood. These most commonly include symptoms of insomnia such as difficulty in falling asleep, frequent nocturnal awakenings, and early morning awakenings. Sleep problems are associated with difficult behaviors and family stress, and are often a focus of clinical attention over and above the primary ASD diagnosis.[238]
^ a b Reichow B, Hume K, Barton EE, Boyd BA (May 2018). "Early intensive behavioral intervention (EIBI) for young children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD)". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 5 (10): CD009260. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD009260.pub3. PMC 6494600. PMID 29742275.
Gargot T, Archambault D, Chetouani M, Cohen D, Johal W, Anzalone SM (10 January 2022). "Automatic Assessment of Motor Impairments in Autism Spectrum Disorders: A Systematic Review" (PDF). Cognitive Computation. 14 (2): 624–659. doi:10.1007/s12559-021-09940-8. ISSN 1866-9964. S2CID 248326222.
^ Flaherty DK (October 2011). "The vaccine-autism connection: a public health crisis caused by unethical medical practices and fraudulent science". The Annals of Pharmacotherapy. 45 (10): 1302–1304. doi:10.1345/aph.1Q318. PMID 21917556. S2CID 39479569.
Warren Z, Veenstra-VanderWeele J, Stone W,et al. (April 2011). Therapies for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorders (Report No. 11-EHC029-EF). Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US). p. 8. PMID 21834171. Hyperbaric therapy, in which oxygen is administered in special chambers that maintain a higher air pressure, has shown possible effects in other chronic neurologic conditions and has also undergone preliminary exploration in ASDs.[needs update]
"Intervention for optimal outcome in children and adolescents with a history of autism"
"Pathological demand avoidance syndrome: a necessary distinction within the pervasive developmental disorders"
"Autism spectrum disorder – childhood disintegrative disorder: MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia"
^ a b c Gogou M, Kolios G (June 2018). "Are therapeutic diets an emerging additional choice in autism spectrum disorder management?". World Journal of Pediatrics (Review). 14 (3): 215–223. doi:10.1007/s12519-018-0164-4. PMID 29846886. S2CID 44155118. Current literature knowledge provides evidence that ketogenic and casein/gluten-free diet may have their own place in our reserve for the therapeutic management of specific subsets of children with autism. ... More clinical studies about the effect of gluten/caseinfree diet in these patients are available. However, available data arise from studies with small sample size and are still controversial. In general, despite encouraging data, no definite proof still exists. Under this view, the use of therapeutic diets in children with autism should be restricted to specific subgroups, such as children with autism and epilepsy or specific inborn errors of metabolism (ketogenic diet), children with known food intolerance/allergy or even children with food intolerance markers (gluten- and casein-free diet). Their implementation should always be guided by health care practitioners.
Harvard University (11 January 2020). "Ongoing human evolution could explain recent rise in certain disorders". ScienceDaily. Retrieved 24 May 2020.
There is no standard definition for regression.[305] Some children show a mixture of features, with some early delays and some later losses; and there is evidence of a continuous spectrum of behaviors, rather than, or in addition to, a black-and-white distinction, between autism with and without regression.[310] There are several intermediate types of development, which do not neatly fit into either the traditional early onset or the regressive categories, including mixtures of early deficits, failures to progress, subtle diminishment, and obvious losses.
"Early Infantile Autism and the Refrigerator Mother Theory (1943-1970) | The Embryo Project Encyclopedia"
"CHD8 is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor that regulates beta-catenin target genes"
McPartland J, Klin A (October 2006). "Asperger's syndrome". Adolescent Medicine Clinics. 17 (3): 771–88, abstract xiii. doi:10.1016/j.admecli.2006.06.010 (inactive 31 December 2022). PMID 17030291.{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of December 2022 (link)
^ a b c Russell G, Stapley S, Newlove-Delgado T, Salmon A, White R, Warren F,et al. (August 2021). "Time trends in autism diagnosis over 20 years: a UK population-based cohort study". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 63 (6): 674–682. doi:10.1111/jcpp.13505. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMID 34414570. S2CID 237242123. The figure starkly illustrates an overall 787% increase in recorded incidence of autism diagnosis over 20 years.
^ Huerta M, Lord C (February 2012). "Diagnostic evaluation of autism spectrum disorders". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 59 (1): 103–11, xi. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2011.10.018. PMC 3269006. PMID 22284796.
National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (29 June 2020). "Diagnostic Criteria: Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 21 February 2021.
"Insights into Autism Spectrum Disorder Genomic Architecture and Biology from 71 Risk Loci"
Hill AP (2014). "Epidemiology of autism spectrum disorders".In Volkmar FR (ed.). Handbook of Autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorders. Diagnosis, Development, and Brain Mechanisms. Vol. 1. New York: Wiley. pp. 57–96. doi:10.1002/9781118911389. ISBN 9781118911389.
Chaste P, Leboyer M (September 2012). "Autism risk factors: genes, environment, and gene-environment interactions". Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience. 14 (3): 281–292. doi:10.31887/DCNS.2012.14.3/pchaste. PMC 3513682. PMID 23226953.
Genetic disorders - about 10–15% of autism cases have an identifiable Mendelian (single-gene) condition, chromosome abnormality, or other genetic syndromes.[236]
^ "ICD vs. DSM". APA Monitor. Vol. 40, no. 9. American Psychological Association. 2009. p. 63.
^ Oswald DP, Sonenklar NA (June 2007). "Medication use among children with autism spectrum disorders". Journal of Child and Adolescent Psychopharmacology. 17 (3): 348–355. doi:10.1089/cap.2006.17303. PMID 17630868.
^ a b Martínez-Pedraza F, Carter AS (July 2009). "Autism spectrum disorders in young children". Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics of North America. 18 (3): 645–63. doi:10.1016/j.chc.2009.02.002. PMC 3166636. PMID 19486843.
Ronan JL, Wu W, Crabtree GR (May 2013). "From neural development to cognition: unexpected roles for chromatin". Nature Reviews. Genetics. 14 (5): 347–359. doi:10.1038/nrg3413. PMC 4010428. PMID 23568486.
In functional neuroimaging studies, when performing theory of mind and facial emotion response tasks, the median person on the autism spectrum exhibits less activation in the primary and secondary somatosensory cortices of the brain than the median member of a properly sampled control population. This finding coincides with reports demonstrating abnormal patterns of cortical thickness and grey matter volume in those regions of autistic peoples' brains.[168]
^ Seth Mnookin (18 June 2018). "Asperger's Children". New York Times. Retrieved 22 July 2019.
Ozonoff S, Iosif AM (May 2019). "Changing conceptualizations of regression: What prospective studies reveal about the onset of autism spectrum disorder". Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews. 100: 296–304. doi:10.1016/j.neubiorev.2019.03.012. PMC 6451681. PMID 30885812.
In the early 1950s, the refrigerator mother theory emerged as an accepted explanation for autism. The hypothesis was based on the idea that autistic behaviors stem from the emotional "frigidity," lack of warmth, and cold, distant, rejecting demeanor of a child's mother.[360] Parents of children with an ASD experienced blame, guilt and self-doubt, especially as the theory was embraced by the medical establishment and went largely unchallenged into the mid-1960s.[361] While an inspiration for it, Leo Kanner himself rejected the theory.[362]
^ Rommelse NN, Franke B, Geurts HM, Hartman CA, Buitelaar JK (March 2010). "Shared heritability of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and autism spectrum disorder". European Child & Adolescent Psychiatry. 19 (3): 281–95. doi:10.1007/s00787-010-0092-x. PMC 2839489. PMID 20148275.
Chapman R, Veit W (November 2021). "Correction to: The essence of autism: fact or artefact?". Molecular Psychiatry. 26 (11): 7069. doi:10.1038/s41380-021-01057-6. PMID 34697454. S2CID 239771302.
"Genetics evaluation for the etiologic diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders"
Eldevik S, Hastings RP, Hughes JC, Jahr E, Eikeseth S, Cross S (May 2009). "Meta-analysis of Early Intensive Behavioral Intervention for children with autism". Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 38 (3): 439–450. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.607.9620. doi:10.1080/15374410902851739. PMID 19437303. S2CID 205873629.
Hamlyn J, Duhig M, McGrath J, Scott J (May 2013). "Modifiable risk factors for schizophrenia and autism—shared risk factors impacting on brain development". Neurobiology of Disease. 53: 3–9. doi:10.1016/j.nbd.2012.10.023. PMID 23123588. S2CID 207067275.
^ Reser JE (May 2011). "Conceptualizing the autism spectrum in terms of natural selection and behavioral ecology: the solitary forager hypothesis". Evolutionary Psychology. 9 (2): 207–238. doi:10.1177/147470491100900209. PMID 22947969. S2CID 25378900.
Autism spectrum disorder is a clinical diagnosis that is typically made by a physician based on reported and directly observed behavior in the affected individual.[178] According to the updated diagnostic criteria in the DSM-5-TR, in order to receive a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder, one must present with “persistent deficits in social communication and social interaction” and “restricted, repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, or activities.”[179] These behaviors must begin in early childhood and affect one's ability to perform everyday tasks. Furthermore, the symptoms must not be fully explainable by intellectual developmental disorder or global developmental delay.
Kulage KM, Smaldone AM, Cohn EG (August 2014). "How will DSM-5 affect autism diagnosis? A systematic literature review and meta-analysis". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 44 (8): 1918–32. doi:10.1007/s10803-014-2065-2. PMID 24531932. S2CID 18865395.
^ Mozes A (26 November 2018). "Report: Autism Rate Rises to 1 in 40 Children". WebMD. Retrieved 26 September 2019.
Ozonoff S, Heung K, Byrd R, Hansen R, Hertz-Picciotto I (December 2008). "The onset of autism: patterns of symptom emergence in the first years of life". Autism Research. 1 (6): 320–328. doi:10.1002/aur.53. PMC 2857525. PMID 19360687.
"Autism case training part 1: A closer look – key developmental milestones". CDC.gov. 18 August 2016. Retrieved 5 August 2019.
Rogers SJ (June 2009). "What are infant siblings teaching us about autism in infancy?". Autism Research. 2 (3): 125–137. doi:10.1002/aur.81. PMC 2791538. PMID 19582867.
Vohr BR, Poggi Davis E, Wanke CA, Krebs NF (April 2017). "Neurodevelopment: The Impact of Nutrition and Inflammation During Preconception and Pregnancy in Low-Resource Settings". Pediatrics (Review). 139 (Suppl 1): S38–S49. doi:10.1542/peds.2016-2828F. PMID 28562247. S2CID 28637473.
Oliver C, Richards C (October 2015). "Practitioner Review: Self-injurious behaviour in children with developmental delay" (PDF). J Child Psychol Psychiatry (Review). 56 (10): 1042–54. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12425. PMID 25916173.
^ "The history of autism". www.autism.org.uk. Retrieved 7 January 2023.
Handbook of Autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorders: Volume Two: Assessment, Interventions, and Policy
^ "ASA Founder, Pioneer in autism research, support, to be honored by community he founded". US Newswire. Washington. 22 November 2006.
Shapiro J (26 June 2006). "Autism Movement Seeks Acceptance, Not Cures". NPR. Retrieved 10 November 2015.
"The classification of mental disorder: a simpler system for DSM–V and ICD–11"
Heidgerken AD, Geffken G, Modi A, Frakey L (June 2005). "A survey of autism knowledge in a health care setting". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 35 (3): 323–330. doi:10.1007/s10803-005-3298-x. PMID 16119473. S2CID 2015723.
^ Beaudet AL (May 2007). "Autism: highly heritable but not inherited". Nature Medicine. 13 (5): 534–536. doi:10.1038/nm0507-534. PMID 17479094. S2CID 11673879.
Geretsegger M, Fusar-Poli L, Elefant C, Mössler KA, Vitale G, Gold C (May 2022). "Music therapy for autistic people". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2022 (5): CD004381. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD004381.pub4. PMC 9082683. PMID 35532041.
^ Vohr BR, Poggi Davis E, Wanke CA, Krebs NF (April 2017). "Neurodevelopment: The Impact of Nutrition and Inflammation During Preconception and Pregnancy in Low-Resource Settings". Pediatrics (Review). 139 (Suppl 1): S38–S49. doi:10.1542/peds.2016-2828F. PMID 28562247. S2CID 28637473.
^ "What are the signs and symptoms of ASD?". Government of Canada. 18 January 2016. Retrieved 4 November 2021.
"CHD8 suppresses p53-mediated apoptosis through histone H1 recruitment during early embryogenesis"
^ Spikins P, Wright B, Hodgson D (1 October 2016). "Are there alternative adaptive strategies to human pro-sociality? The role of collaborative morality in the emergence of personality variation and autistic traits". Time and Mind. 9 (4): 289–313. doi:10.1080/1751696X.2016.1244949. ISSN 1751-696X. S2CID 151820168.
^ a b Minshawi NF, Hurwitz S, Fodstad JC, Biebl S, Morriss DH, McDougle CJ (April 2014). "The association between self-injurious behaviors and autism spectrum disorders". Psychology Research and Behavior Management. 7: 125–36. doi:10.2147/PRBM.S44635. PMC 3990505. PMID 24748827.
Happé F, Ronald A (December 2008). "The 'fractionable autism triad': a review of evidence from behavioural, genetic, cognitive and neural research". Neuropsychology Review. 18 (4): 287–304. doi:10.1007/s11065-008-9076-8. PMID 18956240. S2CID 13928876.
Bestselling book NeuroTribes: The Legacy of Autism and the Future of Neurodiversity was published by American writer Steve Silberman in 2015.
Kanne SM, Randolph JK, Farmer JE (December 2008). "Diagnostic and assessment findings: a bridge to academic planning for children with autism spectrum disorders". Neuropsychology Review. 18 (4): 367–384. doi:10.1007/s11065-008-9072-z. PMID 18855144. S2CID 21108225.
"What are infant siblings teaching us about autism in infancy?"
^ Oberman LM, Hubbard EM, McCleery JP, Altschuler EL, Ramachandran VS, Pineda JA., EEG evidence for mirror neuron dysfunction in autism spectral disorders Archived 2007-01-03 at the Wayback Machine, Brain Res Cogn Brain Res.; 24(2):190-8, 2005-06
Biever C (2007). "Web removes social barriers for those with autism". New Scientist. Reed Elsevier (2610): 26–27. ISSN 0262-4079. Archived from the original on 20 October 2012.
Morgan J (1 October 2016). "Autism spectrum disorder: difference or disability?". The Lancet Neurology. 15 (11): 1126. doi:10.1016/S1474-4422(16)30002-3. ISSN 1474-4422. S2CID 54341655.
Fombonne E (June 2009). "Epidemiology of pervasive developmental disorders". Pediatric Research. 65 (6): 591–598. doi:10.1203/PDR.0b013e31819e7203. PMID 19218885.
New York Times Staff (8 February 1981). "Charles B. Ferster, 58; Psychology Researcher". The New York Times. Retrieved 6 January 2018.
There are many theories about what causes autism; it is highly heritable and believed to be mainly genetic, but many genes are involved, and environmental factors may also be relevant.[13] The syndrome frequently co-occurs with other conditions, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, epilepsy, and intellectual disability. Disagreements continue about questions such as what should be included as part of the diagnosis, whether there are meaningful subtypes of autism,[14] and the significance of autism-associated traits in the wider population.[15][16] The combination of broader criteria and increased awareness has led to a trend of steadily increasing estimates of autism prevalence, causing a misconception that there is an autism epidemic[17] and perpetuating the myth that it is caused by vaccines.[18]
Orinstein AJ, Helt M, Troyb E, Tyson KE, Barton ML, Eigsti IM,et al. (May 2014). "Intervention for optimal outcome in children and adolescents with a history of autism". Journal of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics. 35 (4): 247–256. doi:10.1097/DBP.0000000000000037. PMC 4487510. PMID 24799263.
7.1Developmental course																								7.1.1Gradual autism development																											7.1.2Regressive autism development																											7.1.3Differential outcomes
Newschaffer CJ, Croen LA, Daniels J, Giarelli E, Grether JK, Levy SE,et al. (2007). "The epidemiology of autism spectrum disorders". Annual Review of Public Health. 28: 235–58. doi:10.1146/annurev.publhealth.28.021406.144007. PMID 17367287.
Tantam D (December 1988). "Lifelong eccentricity and social isolation. II: Asperger's syndrome or schizoid personality disorder?". The British Journal of Psychiatry. 153: 783–91. doi:10.1192/bjp.153.6.783. PMID 3256377. S2CID 39433805.
^ a b Lai MC, Szatmari P (March 2020). "Sex and gender impacts on the behavioural presentation and recognition of autism". Current Opinion in Psychiatry. 33 (2): 117–123. doi:10.1097/YCO.0000000000000575. PMID 31815760. S2CID 209164138.
Gernsbacher MA, Dawson M, Goldsmith HH (April 2005). "Three Reasons Not to Believe in an Autism Epidemic". Current Directions in Psychological Science. 14 (2): 55–58. doi:10.1111/j.0963-7214.2005.00334.x. PMC 4232964. PMID 25404790.
Other behavioral characteristics include abnormal responses to sensations (such as sights, sounds, touch, taste and smell) and problems keeping a consistent speech rhythm. The latter problem influences an individual's social skills, leading to potential problems in how they are understood by communication partners. Behavioral characteristics displayed by autistic people typically influence development, language, and social competence. Behavioral characteristics of autistic people can be observed as perceptual disturbances, disturbances of development rate, relating, speech and language, and motility.[70]
^ Geretsegger M, Fusar-Poli L, Elefant C, Mössler KA, Vitale G, Gold C (May 2022). "Music therapy for autistic people". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2022 (5): CD004381. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD004381.pub4. PMC 9082683. PMID 35532041.
Kanner introduced the label early infantile autism in a 1943 report of 11 children with striking behavioral similarities in his paper Autistic Disturbances of Affective Contact.[358] The term "Kanner's syndrome" was later coined to describe the children's condition, in particular to distinguish them from differing symptoms of Asperger's children. This condition has also sometimes been known as "classic autism".
^ a b c d e Levy SE, Mandell DS, Schultz RT (November 2009). "Autism". Lancet. 374 (9701): 1627–1638. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61376-3. PMC 2863325. PMID 19819542. (Erratum: doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61666-8,  [1])
Sarovic D (November 2021). "A Unifying Theory for Autism: The Pathogenetic Triad as a Theoretical Framework". Frontiers in Psychiatry (Review). 12: 767075. doi:10.3389/fpsyt.2021.767075. PMC 8637925. PMID 34867553. S2CID 244119594.
Gallese, V.; Fadiga, L.; Fogassi, L.; Rizzolatti, Giacomo (1996). "Action recognition in the premotor cortex". Brain. 119 (2): 593–609. doi:10.1093/brain/119.2.593. PMID 8800951.
Shanafelt, Robert (2016). "The nature of flag power: How flags entail dominance, subordination, and social solidarity." Cambridge University Press.
Aguiar MC, de Pondé MP (March 2019). "Parenting a child with autism". Jornal Brasileiro de Psiquiatria. 68 (1): 42–47. doi:10.1590/0047-2085000000223. ISSN 0047-2085. S2CID 165119472. Retrieved 17 February 2021.
There is currently no evidence of a cure for autism.[247][97] The degree of symptoms can decrease, occasionally to the extent that people lose their diagnosis of ASD;[294][295] this occurs sometimes after intensive treatment[296] and sometimes not. It is not known how often this outcome happens,[297] with reported rates in unselected samples ranging from 3% to 25%.[294][295] Although core difficulties tend to persist, symptoms often become less severe with age.[102] Acquiring language before age six, having an IQ above 50, and having a marketable skill all predict better outcomes; independent living is unlikely in autistic people with higher support needs.[298]
Conversely, some multidisciplinary research suggests that recent human evolution may be a driving force in the rise of a number of medical conditions in recent human populations, including autism. Studies in evolutionary medicine indicate that as biological evolution becomes outpaced by cultural evolution, disorders linked to bodily dysfunction increase in prevalence due to a lack of contact with pathogens and negative environmental conditions that once widely affected ancestral populations. Because natural selection primarily favors reproduction over health and longevity, the lack of this impetus to adapt to certain harmful circumstances creates a tendency for genes in descendant populations to over-express themselves, which may cause a wide array of maladies, ranging from mental disorders to autoimmune diseases.[156]
Wing L, Potter D (2002). "The epidemiology of autistic spectrum disorders: is the prevalence rising?". Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews. 8 (3): 151–161. doi:10.1002/mrdd.10029. PMID 12216059.
In 1964, American psychologist Bernard Rimland published the book Infantile Autism: The Syndrome and Its Implications for a Neural Theory of Behavior,[364][365][366] which refuted the refrigerator theory. Instead, Rimland suggested, autism was a result of biochemical defects "triggered by environmental assaults". It included a forward by Leo Kanner. The book challenged the medical establishment's perceptions of autism.[367][368] Rimland's message resonated with parents, who wanted to share their stories with him and ask for advice.[368]
Brains of autistic individuals have been observed to have abnormal connectivity and the degree of these abnormalities directly correlates with the severity of autism. Following are some observed abnormal connectivity patterns in autistic individuals:[169][117]
Willingham, Emily (2017). "No Foolin': Forget About Autism Awareness And Lighting Up Blue". Forbes.
^ DSM-5-TR, "It may be helpful to note level of support needed for each of the two core psychopathological domains in Table 2 (e.g., 'requiring very substantial support for deficits in social communication and requiring substantial support for restricted, repetitive behaviors')".
^ Sigman M, Capps L (2002). Children with Autism: A Developmental Perspective. Cambridge: Harvard University Press. pp. 178–179. ISBN 978-0-674-05313-7.
Frye RE (August 2018). "Social Skills Deficits in Autism Spectrum Disorder: Potential Biological Origins and Progress in Developing Therapeutic Agents". CNS Drugs. 32 (8): 713–734. doi:10.1007/s40263-018-0556-y. PMC 6105175. PMID 30105528.
Gogou M, Kolios G (June 2018). "Are therapeutic diets an emerging additional choice in autism spectrum disorder management?". World Journal of Pediatrics (Review). 14 (3): 215–223. doi:10.1007/s12519-018-0164-4. PMID 29846886. S2CID 44155118. Current literature knowledge provides evidence that ketogenic and casein/gluten-free diet may have their own place in our reserve for the therapeutic management of specific subsets of children with autism. ... More clinical studies about the effect of gluten/caseinfree diet in these patients are available. However, available data arise from studies with small sample size and are still controversial. In general, despite encouraging data, no definite proof still exists. Under this view, the use of therapeutic diets in children with autism should be restricted to specific subgroups, such as children with autism and epilepsy or specific inborn errors of metabolism (ketogenic diet), children with known food intolerance/allergy or even children with food intolerance markers (gluten- and casein-free diet). Their implementation should always be guided by health care practitioners.
Godlee F, Smith J, Marcovitch H (January 2011). "Wakefield's article linking MMR vaccine and autism was fraudulent". BMJ. 342: c7452. doi:10.1136/bmj.c7452. PMID 21209060. S2CID 43640126.
^ Awais Aftab, M. D. (23 May 2022). "Neurodiversity and the Social Ecology of Disability". Vol 39, Issue 5. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Happé F, Ronald A, Plomin R (October 2006). "Time to give up on a single explanation for autism". Nature Neuroscience. 9 (10): 1218–1220. doi:10.1038/nn1770. PMID 17001340.
Manouilenko I, Bejerot S (August 2015). "Sukhareva--Prior to Asperger and Kanner". Nordic Journal of Psychiatry (Report) (published 31 March 2015). 69 (6): 479–482. doi:10.3109/08039488.2015.1005022. PMID 25826582. S2CID 207473133.
^ The Economic World. New York city: Chronicle Publishing Company. 1917. p. 366.
"CDC estimates 1 in 68 school-aged children have autism; no change from previous estimate". CDC Newsroom. CDC. 31 March 2016. Retrieved 31 December 2019.
Fein D, Barton M, Eigsti IM, Kelley E, Naigles L, Schultz RT,et al. (February 2013). "Optimal outcome in individuals with a history of autism". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 54 (2): 195–205. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12037. PMC 3547539. PMID 23320807.
Frequency and/or continuation of self-injurious behavior can be influenced by environmental factors (e.g. reward in return for halting self-injurious behavior). However this theory is not applicable to younger children with autism. There is some evidence that frequency of self-injurious behavior can be reduced by removing or modifying environmental factors that reinforce this behavior.[75]: 10–12
"The psychiatric management of autism in adults (CR228)". Royal College of Psychiatrists (UK). Retrieved 29 April 2022.
^ Sarovic D (November 2021). "A Unifying Theory for Autism: The Pathogenetic Triad as a Theoretical Framework". Frontiers in Psychiatry (Review). 12: 767075. doi:10.3389/fpsyt.2021.767075. PMC 8637925. PMID 34867553. S2CID 244119594.
"Temporal Changes in Effect Sizes of Studies Comparing Individuals With and Without Autism: A Meta-analysis"
^ a b c d e f g Augustyn M. "Autism spectrum disorder: Clinical features". UpToDate. Retrieved 22 March 2020.
Folstein SE, Rosen-Sheidley B (December 2001). "Genetics of autism: complex aetiology for a heterogeneous disorder". Nature Reviews. Genetics. 2 (12): 943–955. doi:10.1038/35103559. PMID 11733747. S2CID 9331084.
ASD could be linked to mitochondrial disease, a basic cellular abnormality with the potential to cause disturbances in a wide range of body systems.[174] A 2012 meta-analysis study, as well as other population studies show that approximately 5% of autistic children meet the criteria for classical mitochondrial dysfunction.[175] It is unclear why this mitochondrial disease occurs, considering that only 23% of children with both ASD and mitochondrial disease present with mitochondrial DNA abnormalities.[175]
^ Shanafelt, Robert (2016). "The nature of flag power: How flags entail dominance, subordination, and social solidarity." Cambridge University Press.
Seth Mnookin (18 June 2018). "Asperger's Children". New York Times. Retrieved 22 July 2019.
Social skill teaching method, Social Stories, began its development in 1989 by American teacher Carol Gray.[380] A survey of Ontario autism support workers in 2011 found that 58% had support programs influenced by her.[381]
^ San Mauro Martín I, Garicano Vilar E, Collado Yurrutia L, Ciudad Cabañas MJ (December 2014). "[Is gluten the great etiopathogenic agent of disease in the XXI century?]" [Is gluten the great etiopathogenic agent of disease in the XXI century?]. Nutricion Hospitalaria (in Spanish). 30 (6): 1203–1210. doi:10.3305/nh.2014.30.6.7866. PMID 25433099.
"I tried creating an autism/neurodiversity flag. It's a work in progress."
Autistic individuals may have symptoms that do not contribute to the official diagnosis, but that can affect the individual or the family.[77]
Arndt TL, Stodgell CJ, Rodier PM (2005). "The teratology of autism". International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience. 23 (2–3): 189–199. doi:10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2004.11.001. PMID 15749245. S2CID 17797266.
^ a b Fusaroli R, Lambrechts A, Bang D, Bowler DM, Gaigg SB (March 2017). "Is voice a marker for Autism spectrum disorder? A systematic review and meta-analysis" (PDF). Autism Research. 10 (3): 384–407. doi:10.1002/aur.1678. PMID 27501063. S2CID 13772771.
Siu AL, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Baumann LC, Davidson KW, Ebell M,et al. (February 2016). "Screening for Autism Spectrum Disorder in Young Children: US Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement". JAMA. 315 (7): 691–696. doi:10.1001/jama.2016.0018. PMID 26881372.
Hahler EM, Elsabbagh M (1 March 2015). "Autism: A Global Perspective". Current Developmental Disorders Reports. 2 (1): 58–64. doi:10.1007/s40474-014-0033-3. ISSN 2196-2987. S2CID 73214418.
^ Stephan DA (January 2008). "Unraveling autism". American Journal of Human Genetics. 82 (1): 7–9. doi:10.1016/j.ajhg.2007.12.003. PMC 2253980. PMID 18179879.
A 2018 Cochrane meta-analysis database concludes how some recent research is beginning to suggest that because of the heterology of ASD, there is two varying ABA teaching approaches to acquiring spoken language: children with more general expressive language delays respond sufficiently to the naturalistic approach, whereas children with receptive language delays require discrete trial training—the structured and intensive form of ABA.[262]
"Timeline – The Autism History Project". blogs.uoregon.edu. Retrieved 2 January 2023.
Although the rise of parent organizations and the destigmatization of childhood ASD have affected how ASD is viewed,[351] parents continue to feel social stigma in situations where their child's autistic behavior is perceived negatively,[404] and many primary care physicians and medical specialists express beliefs consistent with outdated autism research.[405]
Although there is no cure for autism, early behavioral interventions can help children with speech delays gain self-care, social, and language skills. Independent living is unlikely in those with higher support needs, so intervention for them requires finding and learning alternative modes of communication. It is well-established that the atypical antipsychotic drugs risperidone and aripiprazole alleviate the associated symptoms of irritability.[19]
Wilkinson B, Grepo N, Thompson BL, Kim J, Wang K, Evgrafov OV,et al. (May 2015). "The autism-associated gene chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 8 (CHD8) regulates noncoding RNAs and autism-related genes". Translational Psychiatry. 5 (5): e568. doi:10.1038/tp.2015.62. PMC 4471293. PMID 25989142.
^ Heidgerken AD, Geffken G, Modi A, Frakey L (June 2005). "A survey of autism knowledge in a health care setting". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 35 (3): 323–330. doi:10.1007/s10803-005-3298-x. PMID 16119473. S2CID 2015723.
^ DSM-5-TR, "Hyper- or hyporeactivity to sensory input or unusual interest in sensory aspects of the environment (e.g., apparent indifference to pain/temperature, adverse response to specific sounds or textures, excessive smelling or touching of objects, visual fascination with lights or movement)".
^ O'Brien G, Pearson J (June 2004). "Autism and learning disability". Autism. 8 (2): 125–40. doi:10.1177/1362361304042718. PMID 15165430. S2CID 17372893.
Starting in adolescence, some people with Asperger syndrome (26% in one sample)[233] fall under the criteria for the similar condition schizoid personality disorder, which is characterized by a lack of interest in social relationships, a tendency towards a solitary or sheltered lifestyle, secretiveness, emotional coldness, detachment and apathy.[233][234][235] Asperger syndrome was traditionally called "schizoid disorder of childhood."
Several lines of evidence point to synaptic dysfunction as a cause of autism.[97] Some rare mutations may lead to autism by disrupting some synaptic pathways, such as those involved with cell adhesion.[162] All known teratogens (agents that cause birth defects) related to the risk of autism appear to act during the first eight weeks from conception, and though this does not exclude the possibility that autism can be initiated or affected later, there is strong evidence that autism arises very early in development.[163]
^ Buxbaum JD (2009). "Multiple rare variants in the etiology of autism spectrum disorders". Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience. 11 (1): 35–43. doi:10.31887/DCNS.2009.11.1/jdbuxbaum. PMC 3181906. PMID 19432386.
Solomon A (25 May 2008). "The autism rights movement". New York. ISSN 0028-7369. Archived from the original on 27 May 2008. Retrieved 27 May 2008.
The American Academy of Neurology and Child Neurology Society recommends general routine screening for delayed or abnormal development in children followed by screening for ASD only if indicated by the general developmental screening[203]
^ Manzi B, Loizzo AL, Giana G, Curatolo P (March 2008). "Autism and metabolic diseases". Journal of Child Neurology. 23 (3): 307–314. doi:10.1177/0883073807308698. PMID 18079313. S2CID 30809774.
^ Crespi B, Badcock C (June 2008). "Psychosis and autism as diametrical disorders of the social brain" (PDF). The Behavioral and Brain Sciences. 31 (3): 241–61, discussion 261–320. doi:10.1017/S0140525X08004214. PMID 18578904.
Al-Beltagi M (May 2021). "Autism medical comorbidities". World Journal of Clinical Pediatrics. 10 (3): 15–28. doi:10.5409/wjcp.v10.i3.15. PMC 8085719. PMID 33972922. Gastrointestinal (GI) disorders are significantly more common in children with ASD; they occur in 46% to 84% of them.
^ a b Lam KS, Aman MG (May 2007). "The Repetitive Behavior Scale-Revised: independent validation in individuals with autism spectrum disorders". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 37 (5): 855–866. doi:10.1007/s10803-006-0213-z. PMID 17048092. S2CID 41034513.
^ "A medical condition or just a difference? The question roils autism community". Washington Post. ISSN 0190-8286. Retrieved 15 October 2021.
ICD-11, "Females diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder are more frequently diagnosed with co-occurring disorders of intellectual development, suggesting that less severe presentations may go undetected as compared to males".
Hollander E, Hagerman R, Fein D, eds. (2018). Autism Spectrum Disorders. eBooks. American Psychiatric Association. Chapter 6: Cognitive Assessment. doi:10.1176/appi.books.9781615371921. ISBN 978-1-61537-192-1. Retrieved 12 September 2022.
AU-TI (2021). "A New Autistic Pride Flag Has Suddenly Appeared & It's Amazing". AU-TI.
^ a b DeStefano F, Shimabukuro TT (September 2019). "The MMR Vaccine and Autism". Annual Review of Virology. 6 (1): 585–600. doi:10.1146/annurev-virology-092818-015515. PMC 6768751. PMID 30986133.
^ "Carol Gray". Carol Gray - Social Stories. Retrieved 5 January 2023.
Various anxiety disorders tend to co-occur with ASDs, with overall comorbidity rates of 7–84%.[223] They are common among children with ASD; there are no firm data, but studies have reported prevalences ranging from 11% to 84%. Many anxiety disorders have symptoms that are better explained by ASD itself, or are hard to distinguish from ASD's symptoms.[224]
"An analytical framework for whole-genome sequence association studies and its implications for autism spectrum disorder"
Smith T, Iadarola S (2015). "Evidence Base Update for Autism Spectrum Disorder". Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 44 (6): 897–922. doi:10.1080/15374416.2015.1077448. ISSN 1537-4416. PMID 26430947.
"Facts and Statistics". Autism Society. Archived from the original on 30 October 2019. Retrieved 6 November 2019.
Hendricks DR, Wehman P (24 March 2009). "Transition From School to Adulthood for Youth With Autism Spectrum Disorders: Review and Recommendations". Focus on Autism and Other Developmental Disabilities. 24 (2): 77–88. doi:10.1177/1088357608329827. S2CID 14636906.
Morgan, Julian (2018). Going Gold For Autism Acceptance. Autistic UK.
^ Plaisted Grant K, Davis G (May 2009). "Perception and apperception in autism: rejecting the inverse assumption". Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological Sciences. 364 (1522): 1393–1398. doi:10.1098/rstb.2009.0001. PMC 2677593. PMID 19528022.
Baranek GT (October 2002). "Efficacy of sensory and motor interventions for children with autism". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 32 (5): 397–422. doi:10.1023/A:1020541906063. PMID 12463517. S2CID 16449130.
Keating CT, Cook JL (July 2020). "Facial expression production and recognition in autism spectrum disorders: a shifting landscape". Child Adolesc Psychiatr Clin N Am (Review). 29 (3): 557–571. doi:10.1016/j.chc.2020.02.006. PMID 32471602.
^ James S, Stevenson SW, Silove N, Williams K (May 2015).James S (ed.). "Chelation for autism spectrum disorder (ASD)". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (Review) (5): CD010766. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD010766. PMID 26106752.
^ Zwaigenbaum L (October 2001). "Autistic spectrum disorders in preschool children". Canadian Family Physician. 47 (10): 2037–42. PMC 2018435. PMID 11723598.
Sanchack KE, Thomas CA (December 2016). "Autism Spectrum Disorder: Primary Care Principles". American Family Physician. 94 (12): 972–979. PMID 28075089.
"Biocertification and Neurodiversity the Role and Implications of Self-Diagnosis in Autistic Communities"
Many of the children who were later found not to meet ASD diagnosis criteria then received diagnosis for another developmental disorder. Most common was ADHD, but other diagnoses included sensory disorders, anxiety, personality disorder, or learning disability.[204][non-primary source needed] Neurodevelopment and psychiatric disorders that are commonly misdiagnosed as ASD include specific language impairment, social communication disorder, anxiety disorder, reactive attachment disorder, cognitive impairment, visual impairment, hearing loss and normal behavioral variation.[209] Some behavioral variations that resemble autistic traits are repetitive behaviors, sensitivity to change in daily routines, focused interests, and toe-walking. These are considered normal behavioral variations when they do not cause impaired function. Boys are more likely to exhibit repetitive behaviors especially when excited, tired, bored, or stressed. Some ways of distinguishing typical behavioral variations from autistic behaviors are the ability of the child to suppress these behaviors and the absence of these behaviors during sleep.[186]
Beaudet AL (May 2007). "Autism: highly heritable but not inherited". Nature Medicine. 13 (5): 534–536. doi:10.1038/nm0507-534. PMID 17479094. S2CID 11673879.
"How our autistic ancestors played an important role in human evolution"
The most common medical condition occurring in individuals with ASDs is seizure disorder or epilepsy, which occurs in 11–39% of autistic individuals.[212] The risk varies with age, cognitive level, and type of language disorder.[213]
In the United States, about half of people in their 20s with autism are unemployed, and one third of those with graduate degrees may be unemployed.[322] While employers state hiring concerns about productivity and supervision, experienced employers of autistics give positive reports of above average memory and detail orientation as well as a high regard for rules and procedure in autistic employees.[322] The majority of the economic burden of autism is caused by lost productivity in the job market.[323] From the perspective of the social model of disability, much of this unemployment is caused by the lack of understanding from employers and coworkers.[324][325] Adding content related to autism in existing diversity training can clarify misconceptions, support employees, and help provide new opportunities for autistic people.[326] As of 2021, the potential for new autism employment initiatives by major employers in the United States continue to grow. The most high-profile autism initiative in the United States, "Autism at Work" grew to 20 of the largest companies in the United States.[327] However, special hiring programs remain largely limited to entry-level technology positions, such as software testing, and exclude those who have talents outside of technology. An alternative approach is systemic neurodiversity inclusion. Developing organizational systems with enough flexibility and fairness to include autistic employees improves the work experience of all employees.[328][329]
^ Lyford, Kathy (13 November 2008). "'Big Bang Theory': Jim Parsons – 'Everybody has a little Sheldon in them'". Season Pass. Variety. Archived from the original on 22 July 2012. Retrieved 14 April 2009. Specific video is Jim Parsons interview, part 5 Archived October 31, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. Question is from 03:18–3:31. Answer is from 4:36–6:00. Specific quote is from 5:15–5:20.
^ Lord C (November 1995). "Follow-up of two-year-olds referred for possible autism". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 36 (8): 1365–82. doi:10.1111/j.1469-7610.1995.tb01669.x. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMID 8988272.
There are two possible developmental courses of ASD. One course of development is more gradual in nature, with symptoms appearing fairly early in life and persisting.[299] A second course of development is characterized by normal or near-normal development before onset of regression or loss of skills, which is known as regressive autism.[300]
Ji N, Findling RL (March 2015). "An update on pharmacotherapy for autism spectrum disorder in children and adolescents". Current Opinion in Psychiatry. 28 (2): 91–101. doi:10.1097/YCO.0000000000000132. PMID 25602248. S2CID 206141453.
Wolff S (August 2004). "The history of autism". European Child & Adolescent Psychiatry. 13 (4): 201–208. doi:10.1007/s00787-004-0363-5. PMID 15365889. S2CID 6106042.
Praslova, Ludmila N. (21 June 2022). "An Intersectional Approach to Inclusion at Work". Harvard Business Review. ISSN 0017-8012. Retrieved 8 February 2023.
"Large-Scale Exome Sequencing Study Implicates Both Developmental and Functional Changes in the Neurobiology of Autism"
"The onset of autism: patterns of symptom emergence in the first years of life"
The increasing number of students diagnosed with ASD in the schools presents significant challenges to teachers, school psychologists, and other school professionals.[315] These challenges include developing a consistent practice that best support the social and cognitive development of the increasing number of autistic students.[315] Although there is considerable research addressing assessment, identification, and support services for autistic children, there is a need for further research focused on these topics within the school context.[315] Further research on appropriate support services for students with ASD will provide school psychologists and other education professionals with specific directions for advocacy and service delivery that aim to enhance school outcomes for students with ASD.[315]
Exposure to air pollution during child pregnancy, especially heavy metals and particulates, may increase the risk of autism.[128][129] Environmental factors that have been claimed without evidence to contribute to or exacerbate autism include certain foods, infectious diseases, solvents, PCBs, phthalates and phenols used in plastic products, pesticides, brominated flame retardants, alcohol, smoking, illicit drugs, vaccines,[130] and prenatal stress. Some, such as the MMR vaccine, have been completely disproven.[131][132][133][134]
^ Morgan J (1 October 2016). "Autism spectrum disorder: difference or disability?". The Lancet Neurology. 15 (11): 1126. doi:10.1016/S1474-4422(16)30002-3. ISSN 1474-4422. S2CID 54341655.
"Understanding assets and deficits in autism: why success is more interesting than failure"
^ Crespi BJ, Thiselton DL (October 2011). "Comparative immunogenetics of autism and schizophrenia". Genes, Brain and Behavior. 10 (7): 689–701. doi:10.1111/j.1601-183X.2011.00710.x. PMID 21649858. S2CID 851655.
Crespi BJ (30 June 2016). "Autism As a Disorder of High Intelligence". Frontiers in Neuroscience. 10: 300. doi:10.3389/fnins.2016.00300. PMC 4927579. PMID 27445671.
^ "Facts and Statistics". Autism Society. Archived from the original on 30 October 2019. Retrieved 6 November 2019.
Considering the unique challenges in diagnosing ASD using behavioral and observational assessment, specific US practice parameters for its assessment were published by the American Academy of Neurology in the year 2000,[197] the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry in 1999,[181] and a consensus panel with representation from various professional societies in 1999.[77] The practice parameters outlined by these societies include an initial screening of children by general practitioners (i.e., "Level 1 screening") and for children who fail the initial screening, a comprehensive diagnostic assessment by experienced clinicians (i.e. "Level 2 evaluation"). Furthermore, it has been suggested that assessments of children with suspected ASD be evaluated within a developmental framework, include multiple informants (e.g., parents and teachers) from diverse contexts (e.g., home and school), and employ a multidisciplinary team of professionals (e.g., clinical psychologists, neuropsychologists, and psychiatrists).[198]
^ "Diagnostic criteria - a guide for all audiences". National Autistic Society. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
"Child care problems and employment among families with preschool-aged children with autism in the United States"
Fournier KA, Hass CJ, Naik SK, Lodha N, Cauraugh JH (October 2010). "Motor coordination in autism spectrum disorders: a synthesis and meta-analysis". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 40 (10): 1227–1240. doi:10.1007/s10803-010-0981-3. PMID 20195737. S2CID 3469612.
Spikins P (27 March 2017). "How our autistic ancestors played an important role in human evolution". The Conversation.
EEG evidence for mirror neuron dysfunction in autism spectral disorders
Sugranyes G, Kyriakopoulos M, Corrigall R, Taylor E, Frangou S (2011). "Autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia: meta-analysis of the neural correlates of social cognition". PLOS ONE. 6 (10): e25322. Bibcode:2011PLoSO...625322S. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0025322. PMC 3187762. PMID 21998649.
While psychiatry has traditionally classified autism as a neurodevelopmental disorder, the autism rights movement and some researchers see autism as part of neurodiversity, the natural diversity in human thinking and experience, with strengths, differences, and weaknesses.[7] According to this view, autism is something to be accommodated as a difference, not cured or prevented. Autistic people still have a disability and can still have support needs, but need to be accommodated, rather than cured.[8][9] This view of the condition has led to significant controversy among those who are autistic alongside advocates, practitioners, and charities.[10][11][12]
^ Rutter M (January 2005). "Incidence of autism spectrum disorders: changes over time and their meaning". Acta Paediatrica. 94 (1): 2–15. doi:10.1111/j.1651-2227.2005.tb01779.x. PMID 15858952. S2CID 79259285.
^ Deer B (8 February 2009). "MMR doctor Andrew Wakefield fixed data on autism". The Sunday Times.
Zeldovich, Lina (7 November 2018). "How history forgot the woman who defined autism". Spectrum | Autism Research News. Retrieved 5 January 2023.
"A medical condition or just a difference? The question roils autism community". Washington Post. ISSN 0190-8286. Retrieved 15 October 2021.
^ Glidden D, Bouman WP, Jones BA, Arcelus J (January 2016). "Gender Dysphoria and Autism Spectrum Disorder: A Systematic Review of the Literature". Sexual Medicine Reviews. 4 (1): 3–14. doi:10.1016/j.sxmr.2015.10.003. PMID 27872002. S2CID 3454600.
^ Gentile S (August 2015). "Prenatal antidepressant exposure and the risk of autism spectrum disorders in children. Are we looking at the fall of Gods?". Journal of Affective Disorders. 182: 132–7. doi:10.1016/j.jad.2015.04.048. PMID 25985383.
Some individuals with ASD show unusual or notable abilities, ranging from splinter skills (such as the memorization of trivia) to rare talents in mathematics, music or artistic reproduction, which in exceptional cases are considered a part of the savant syndrome.[78][79][80] One study describes how some individuals with ASD show superior skills in perception and attention, relative to the general population.[81] Sensory abnormalities are found in over 90% of autistic people, and are considered core features by some.[82]
"Tracing the origins of autism: a spectrum of new studies"
"Behavioural and developmental interventions for autism spectrum disorder: a clinical systematic review"
American Academy of Pediatrics recommends ASD screening of all children between the ages if 18 and 24 months.[203] The AAP also recommends that children who screen positive for ASD be referred to treatment services without waiting for a comprehensive diagnostic workup[204]
^ Trine Tangeraas, Juliana R Constante, Paul Hoff Backe, Alfonso Oyarzábal, Julia Neugebauer, Natalie Weinhold, Francois Boemer, François G Debray, Burcu Ozturk-Hism, Gumus Evren, Eminoglu F Tuba, Oncul Ummuhan, Emma Footitt, James Davison, Caroline Martinez, Clarissa Bueno, Irene Machado, Pilar Rodríguez-Pombo, Nouriya Al-Sannaa, Mariela De Los Santos, Jordi Muchart López, Hatice Ozturkmen-Akay, Meryem Karaca, Mustafa Tekin, Sonia Pajares, Aida Ormazabal, Stephanie D Stoway, Rafael Artuch, Marjorie Dixon, Lars Mørkrid, Angeles García-Cazorla (2 February 2023). "BCKDK deficiency: a treatable neurodevelopmental disease amenable to newborn screening". Brain. doi:10.1093/brain/awad010. PMID 36729635. Retrieved 23 February 2023.{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Samsam M, Ahangari R, Naser SA (August 2014). "Pathophysiology of autism spectrum disorders: revisiting gastrointestinal involvement and immune imbalance". World Journal of Gastroenterology (Review). 20 (29): 9942–9951. doi:10.3748/wjg.v20.i29.9942. PMC 4123375. PMID 25110424.
^ Milton, Damian E.M. (October 2012). "On the ontological status of autism: the 'double empathy problem'". Disability & Society. 27 (6): 883–887. doi:10.1080/09687599.2012.710008. ISSN 0968-7599. S2CID 54047060.
Flowers J, Lantz J, Hamlin T, Simeonsson RJ (August 2020). "Associated Factors of Self-injury Among Adolescents with Autism Spectrum Disorder in a Community and Residential Treatment Setting". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 50 (8): 2987–3004. doi:10.1007/s10803-020-04389-4. PMID 32056114. S2CID 211111895.
^ Hinerman PS (1983). Teaching Autistic Children to Communicate. Rockville, Maryland: Aspens System Corporation. p. 180. ISBN 978-0-89443-884-4.
^ Aguiar MC, de Pondé MP (March 2019). "Parenting a child with autism". Jornal Brasileiro de Psiquiatria. 68 (1): 42–47. doi:10.1590/0047-2085000000223. ISSN 0047-2085. S2CID 165119472. Retrieved 17 February 2021.
Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology, Taylor & Francis, ISSN 1537-4416, Wikidata Q15767686
^ ICD-11, "Females diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder are more frequently diagnosed with co-occurring disorders of intellectual development, suggesting that less severe presentations may go undetected as compared to males".
An abnormal basal ganglia connectivity may predispose to self-injurious behavior.[75]: 13
An autistic culture has emerged, accompanied by the autistic rights and neurodiversity movements. that argues autism should be accepted as a difference to be accommodated instead of cured,[407][408][409][410][402] although a minority of autistic people might still accept a cure.[411] Worldwide, events related to autism include World Autism Awareness Day, Autism Sunday, Autistic Pride Day, Autreat, and others.[412][413][414][415] Social-science scholars study those with autism in hopes to learn more about "autism as a culture, transcultural comparisons ... and research on social movements."[416] Many autistic people have been successful in their fields.[417]
McBrien J, Murphy J, Gill D, Cronin M, O'Donovan C, Cafferkey MT (July 2003). "Measles outbreak in Dublin, 2000". The Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal. 22 (7): 580–584. doi:10.1097/00006454-200307000-00002. PMID 12867830.
^ Praslova, Ludmila N. (13 December 2021). "Autism Doesn't Hold People Back at Work. Discrimination Does". Harvard Business Review. ISSN 0017-8012. Retrieved 8 February 2023.
Pickett D, Anderson RN (18 July 2018). Status on ICD-11: The WHO Launch (PDF) (Report). CDC/NCHS.
^ Mason, Tara (23 July 2021). "DSM-IV Diagnostic Criteria for Autism Spectrum Disorders". The Autism Community in Action (TACA). Retrieved 5 January 2023.
Differences between the previously recognized disorders under the autism spectrum are greater for under-responsivity (for example, walking into things) than for over-responsivity (for example, distress from loud noises) or for sensation seeking (for example, rhythmic movements).[84] An estimated 60–80% of autistic people have motor signs that include poor muscle tone, poor motor planning, and toe walking;[82][85] deficits in motor coordination are pervasive across ASD and are greater in autism proper.[86]
{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of December 2022 (link)
Losh M, Adolphs R, Piven J (2011). "The Broad Autism Phenotype". Autism Spectrum Disorders. Oxford University Press. pp. 457–476. doi:10.1093/med/9780195371826.003.0031. ISBN 978-0-19-996521-2.
^ Sala, G.; Hooley, M.; Attwood, T. (2019). "Autism and Intellectual Disability: A Systematic Review of Sexuality and Relationship Education". Sexuality and Disability. 37 (3): 353–382. doi:10.1007/s11195-019-09577-4. S2CID 255011485.
^ a b Geschwind DH (October 2008). "Autism: many genes, common pathways?". Cell. 135 (3): 391–395. doi:10.1016/j.cell.2008.10.016. PMC 2756410. PMID 18984147.
"A New Autistic Pride Flag Has Suddenly Appeared & It's Amazing".
"Thousands of autistic girls and women 'going undiagnosed' due to gender bias"
Kennedy DP, Adolphs R (November 2012). "The social brain in psychiatric and neurological disorders". Trends in Cognitive Sciences. 16 (11): 559–72. doi:10.1016/j.tics.2012.09.006. PMC 3606817. PMID 23047070.
McLeod S (6 April 2022). "Jean Piaget's Theory of Cognitive Development". Simply Psychology. Archived from the original on 1 June 2022. Retrieved 19 February 2019.
2Features and characteristics											Toggle Features and characteristics subsection																					2.1Pre-diagnosis																											2.2Broader autism phenotype																											2.3Social and communication skills																											2.4Restricted and repetitive behaviors																								2.4.1Self-injury																														2.5Other features
^ "At the intersection of autism and trauma". 26 September 2018.
Werling DM, Brand H, An JY, Stone MR, Zhu L, Glessner JT,et al. (April 2018). "An analytical framework for whole-genome sequence association studies and its implications for autism spectrum disorder". Nature Genetics. 50 (5): 727–736. doi:10.1038/s41588-018-0107-y. PMC 5961723. PMID 29700473.
^ Tan M, Parkin JE (November 2000). "Route of decomposition of thiomersal (thimerosal)". International Journal of Pharmaceutics. 208 (1–2): 23–34. doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(00)00514-7. PMID 11064208.
^ Johnson KR, Ennis-Cole D, Bohamgregory M (21 February 2020). "Workplace Success Strategies for Employees With Autism Spectrum Disorder: A New Frontier for Human Resource Development". Human Resource Development Review. 19 (2): 122–151. doi:10.1177/1534484320905910. S2CID 213995367.
"A medical condition or just a difference? The question roils autism community"
Baron-Cohen S, Knickmeyer RC, Belmonte MK (November 2005). "Sex differences in the brain: implications for explaining autism" (PDF). Science. 310 (5749): 819–823. Bibcode:2005Sci...310..819B. doi:10.1126/science.1115455. PMID 16272115. S2CID 44330420.
Annio Posar; Paola Visconti (23 September 2020). "Is it autism? Some suggestions for pediatricians". Türk pediatri arsivi Turkish Pediatrics Archive. 55 (3): 229–235. doi:10.14744/TURKPEDIATRIARS.2020.59862. ISSN 1306-0015. PMC 7536466. PMID 33061749. Wikidata Q100648906.
It is now known that autism is a highly variable neurodevelopmental disorder[23] that is generally thought to cover a broad and deep spectrum, manifesting very differently from one person to another. Some have high support needs, may be non-speaking, and experience developmental delays; this is more likely with other co-existing diagnoses. Others have relatively low support needs; they may have more typical speech-language and intellectual skills but atypical social/conversation skills, narrowly focused interests, and wordy, pedantic communication.[24] They may still require significant support in some areas of their lives. The spectrum model should not be understood as a continuum running from mild to severe, but instead means that autism can present very differently in each individual.[25] How a person presents can depend on context, and may vary over time.[26]
Corsello C, Hus V, Pickles A, Risi S, Cook EH, Leventhal BL, Lord C (September 2007). "Between a ROC and a hard place: decision making and making decisions about using the SCQ". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 48 (9): 932–40. doi:10.1111/j.1469-7610.2007.01762.x. eISSN 1469-7610. hdl:2027.42/74877. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMID 17714378.
^ Richdale AL, Schreck KA (December 2009). "Sleep problems in autism spectrum disorders: prevalence, nature, & possible biopsychosocial aetiologies". Sleep Medicine Reviews. 13 (6): 403–411. doi:10.1016/j.smrv.2009.02.003. PMID 19398354.
Schenkman, Lauren (21 February 2023). "Dietary changes ease traits in rare autism-linked condition". Spectrum | Autism Research News. Retrieved 23 February 2023.
^ a b c Lockwood Estrin G, Milner V, Spain D, Happé F, Colvert E (29 October 2020). "Barriers to Autism Spectrum Disorder Diagnosis for Young Women and Girls: a Systematic Review". Review Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. Springer Science and Business Media LLC. 8 (4): 454–470. doi:10.1007/s40489-020-00225-8. PMC 8604819. PMID 34868805.
^ "Autism may have had advantages in humans' hunter-gatherer past, researcher believes". ScienceDaily. University of Southern California. 3 June 2011.
^ Biever C (2007). "Web removes social barriers for those with autism". New Scientist. Reed Elsevier (2610): 26–27. ISSN 0262-4079. Archived from the original on 20 October 2012.
"Autism spectrum disorder – childhood disintegrative disorder: MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia". medlineplus.gov. Retrieved 8 May 2020.
Dapretto, M; Davies, MS; Pfeifer, JH; Scott, AA; Sigman, M; Bookheimer, SY; Iacoboni, M (2006). "Understanding emotions in others: mirror neuron dysfunction in children with autism spectrum disorders". Nature Neuroscience. 9 (1): 28–30. doi:10.1038/nn1611. PMC 3713227. PMID 16327784.
A difficulty for academic performance in students with ASD is the tendency to generalize learning.[60] Learning is different for each student, which is the same for students with ASD. To assist in learning, accommodations are commonly put into place for students with differing abilities. The existing schema of these students works in different ways and can be adjusted to best support the educational development for each student.[317]
Woodbury-Smith MR, Volkmar FR (June 2008). "Asperger syndrome". European Child & Adolescent Psychiatry. 18 (1): 2–11. doi:10.1007/s00787-008-0701-0. PMID 18563474. S2CID 12808995.
^ Van Der Miesen AI, Hurley H, De Vries AL (2016). "Gender dysphoria and autism spectrum disorder: A narrative review". International Review of Psychiatry. 28 (1): 70–80. doi:10.3109/09540261.2015.1111199. PMID 26753812. S2CID 20918937.
Johnson CP, Myers SM (November 2007). "Identification and evaluation of children with autism spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. 120 (5): 1183–1215. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-2361. PMID 17967920. Archived from the original on 8 February 2009.
^ Newson E, Le Maréchal K, David C (July 2003). "Pathological demand avoidance syndrome: a necessary distinction within the pervasive developmental disorders". Archives of Disease in Childhood. 88 (7): 595–600. doi:10.1136/adc.88.7.595. PMC 1763174. PMID 12818906.
Myers SM, Johnson CP (November 2007). "Management of children with autism spectrum disorders". Pediatrics. 120 (5): 1162–1182. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-2362. PMID 17967921. S2CID 1656920. Archived from the original on 12 June 2009.
In 1994, reflecting the better understood diversity of autistic experience, the DSM-IV included a number of newly defined PDD conditions. "Autistic disorder" was redefined, and supplemented with the new conditions Asperger syndrome, Rett syndrome and childhood disintegrative disorder (CDD). PDD-NOS remained.[388] The definition of Asperger syndrome included speech and language difficulties.
^ "Conditions That May Look Like Autism, but Aren't". WebMD. Retrieved 10 May 2020.
Rosen NE, Lord C, Volkmar FR (December 2021). "The Diagnosis of Autism: From Kanner to DSM-III to DSM-5 and Beyond". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 51 (12): 4253–4270. doi:10.1007/s10803-021-04904-1. PMC 8531066. PMID 33624215.
^ a b Gerber JS, Offit PA (February 2009). "Vaccines and autism: a tale of shifting hypotheses". Clinical Infectious Diseases. 48 (4): 456–461. doi:10.1086/596476. PMC 2908388. PMID 19128068.
The American Academy of Family Physicians did not find sufficient evidence of benefit of universal early screening for ASD[203]
"Evidence-based assessment of autism spectrum disorders in children and adolescents"
"DNA Damage and Repair in Schizophrenia and Autism: Implications for Cancer Comorbidity and Beyond"
^ Huang Y, Arnold SR, Foley KR, Trollor JN (August 2020). "Diagnosis of autism in adulthood: A scoping review". Autism. 24 (6): 1311–1327. doi:10.1177/1362361320903128. PMID 32106698. S2CID 211556350.
^ Willingham, Emily (2017). "No Foolin': Forget About Autism Awareness And Lighting Up Blue". Forbes.
^ Underwood L, McCarthy J, Tsakanikos E (September 2010). "Mental health of adults with autism spectrum disorders and intellectual disability". Current Opinion in Psychiatry. 23 (5): 421–6. doi:10.1097/YCO.0b013e32833cfc18. PMID 20613532. S2CID 13735841.
^ CDC (31 March 2022). "Basics About Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) | NCBDDD | CDC". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 15 September 2022.
Glock, Melanie (13 March 2014). "Bernard Rimland's "Infantile Autism": The book that changed autism". Autism Research Institute. Retrieved 6 January 2023.
^ a b Werner E, Dawson G, Munson J, Osterling J (June 2005). "Variation in early developmental course in autism and its relation with behavioral outcome at 3-4 years of age". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 35 (3): 337–50. doi:10.1007/s10803-005-3301-6. PMID 16119475. S2CID 22485657.
DSM-5-TR, "It may be helpful to note level of support needed for each of the two core psychopathological domains in Table 2 (e.g., 'requiring very substantial support for deficits in social communication and requiring substantial support for restricted, repetitive behaviors')".
Sameness: Resistance to change; for example, insisting that the furniture not be moved or refusing to be interrupted.
Abnormal preferential processing of information by the left hemisphere of the brain vs. preferential processing of information by right hemisphere in neurotypical individuals. The left hemisphere is associated with processing information related to details whereas the right hemisphere is associated with processing information in a more global and integrated sense that is essential for pattern recognition. For example, visual information like face recognition is normally processed by the right hemisphere which tends to integrate all information from an incoming sensory signal, whereas an ASD brain preferentially processes visual information in the left hemisphere where information tends to be processed for local details of the face rather than the overall configuration of the face. This left lateralization negatively impacts both facial recognition and spatial skills.[169]
Volta U, Caio G, De Giorgio R, Henriksen C, Skodje G, Lundin KE (June 2015). "Non-celiac gluten sensitivity: a work-in-progress entity in the spectrum of wheat-related disorders". Best Practice & Research. Clinical Gastroenterology. 29 (3): 477–491. doi:10.1016/j.bpg.2015.04.006. PMID 26060112. autism spectrum disorders (ASD) have been hypothesized to be associated with NCGS [47,48]. Notably, a gluten- and casein-free diet might have a positive effect in improving hyperactivity and mental confusion in some patients with ASD. This very exciting association between NCGS and ASD deserves further study before conclusions can be firmly drawn
Sensory processing disorder is also comorbid with ASD, with comorbidity rates of 42–88%.[232]
Altevogt BM, Hanson SL, Leshner AI (June 2008). "Autism and the environment: challenges and opportunities for research". Pediatrics. 121 (6): 1225–1229. doi:10.1542/peds.2007-3000. PMID 18519493. S2CID 24595814. Archived from the original on 15 January 2010.
"Broader autism phenotype: evidence from a family history study of multiple-incidence autism families"
^ a b c Nishiyama M, Oshikawa K, Tsukada Y, Nakagawa T, Iemura S, Natsume T,et al. (February 2009). "CHD8 suppresses p53-mediated apoptosis through histone H1 recruitment during early embryogenesis". Nature Cell Biology. 11 (2): 172–182. doi:10.1038/ncb1831. PMC 3132516. PMID 19151705.
You may improve this section, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new section, as appropriate.
Brown MJ, Willis T, Omalu B, Leiker R (August 2006). "Deaths resulting from hypocalcemia after administration of edetate disodium: 2003-2005". Pediatrics. 118 (2): e534–e536. doi:10.1542/peds.2006-0858. PMID 16882789. S2CID 28656831. Archived from the original on 27 July 2009.
^ a b Waterhouse L, Wing L, Spitzer R, Siegel B (December 1992). "Pervasive developmental disorders: from DSM-III to DSM-III-R". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 22 (4): 525–549. doi:10.1007/BF01046326. PMID 1483975. S2CID 42054100.
""Putting on My Best Normal": Social Camouflaging in Adults with Autism Spectrum Conditions"
^ Siafis S, Çıray O, Schneider-Thoma J, Bighelli I, Krause M, Rodolico A, Ceraso A, Deste G, Huhn M, Fraguas D, Mavridis D, Charman T, Murphy DG, Parellada M, Arango C, Leucht S (2020). "Placebo response in pharmacological and dietary supplement trials of autism spectrum disorder (ASD): systematic review and meta-regression analysis". Molecular Autism. 11 (1): 66. doi:10.1186/s13229-020-00372-z. PMC 7448339. PMID 32847616.
^ Milton, Damian; Gurbuz, Emine; López, Beatriz (November 2022). "The 'double empathy problem': Ten years on". Autism. 26 (8): 1901–1903. doi:10.1177/13623613221129123. ISSN 1362-3613. PMID 36263746. S2CID 253020669.
"Is voice a marker for Autism spectrum disorder? A systematic review and meta-analysis"
Ozonoff S, Goodlin-Jones BL, Solomon M (September 2005). "Evidence-based assessment of autism spectrum disorders in children and adolescents" (PDF). Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 34 (3): 523–40. doi:10.1207/s15374424jccp3403_8. ISSN 1537-4416. PMID 16083393. S2CID 14322690. Archived from the original (PDF) on 18 April 2021. Retrieved 3 September 2019.
Silverman C (2008). "Fieldwork on Another Planet: Social Science Perspectives on the Autism Spectrum". BioSocieties. 3 (3): 325–341. doi:10.1017/S1745855208006236. ISSN 1745-8552. S2CID 145379758.
^ Howlin P, Moss P (May 2012). "Adults with autism spectrum disorders". Canadian Journal of Psychiatry. 57 (5): 275–83. doi:10.1177/070674371205700502. PMID 22546059. S2CID 44544407.
Marí-Bauset S, Zazpe I, Mari-Sanchis A, Llopis-González A, Morales-Suárez-Varela M (December 2014). "Evidence of the gluten-free and casein-free diet in autism spectrum disorders: a systematic review". Journal of Child Neurology. 29 (12): 1718–1727. doi:10.1177/0883073814531330. hdl:10171/37087. PMID 24789114. S2CID 19874518.
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 21:30 (UTC).
^ "Autism: Overview". American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. Retrieved 17 December 2017.
^ a b c d Lord C, Elsabbagh M, Baird G, Veenstra-Vanderweele J (August 2018). "Autism spectrum disorder". Lancet. 392 (10146): 508–520. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(18)31129-2. PMC 7398158. PMID 30078460. S2CID 51922565.
^ "About autism spectrum disorder (ASD)". Government of Canada. 18 January 2016. Retrieved 4 November 2021.
^ Koenig K, Tsatsanis KD, Volkmar FR (2001). "Neurobiology and Genetics of Autism: A Developmental Perspective".In Burack JA, Charman T, Yirmiya N, Zelazo PR (eds.). The development of autism: perspectives from theory and research. Mahwah, N.J.: L. Erlbaum. pp. 73–92. ISBN 9780805832457. OCLC 806185029.
^ a b Happé F, Ronald A, Plomin R (October 2006). "Time to give up on a single explanation for autism". Nature Neuroscience. 9 (10): 1218–1220. doi:10.1038/nn1770. PMID 17001340.
^ a b Morgan, Julian (2018). Going Gold For Autism Acceptance. Autistic UK.
^ Flowers J, Lantz J, Hamlin T, Simeonsson RJ (August 2020). "Associated Factors of Self-injury Among Adolescents with Autism Spectrum Disorder in a Community and Residential Treatment Setting". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 50 (8): 2987–3004. doi:10.1007/s10803-020-04389-4. PMID 32056114. S2CID 211111895.
Sugathan A, Biagioli M, Golzio C, Erdin S, Blumenthal I, Manavalan P,et al. (October 2014). "CHD8 regulates neurodevelopmental pathways associated with autism spectrum disorder in neural progenitors". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 111 (42): E4468–E4477. Bibcode:2014PNAS..111E4468S. doi:10.1073/pnas.1405266111. PMC 4210312. PMID 25294932.
Brandler WM, Antaki D, Gujral M, Noor A, Rosanio G, Chapman TR,et al. (April 2016). "Frequency and Complexity of De Novo Structural Mutation in Autism". American Journal of Human Genetics. 98 (4): 667–679. doi:10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.02.018. PMC 4833290. PMID 27018473.
^ Harvard University (11 January 2020). "Ongoing human evolution could explain recent rise in certain disorders". ScienceDaily. Retrieved 24 May 2020.
Autistic individuals can display many forms of repetitive or restricted behavior, which the Repetitive Behavior Scale-Revised (RBS-R) categorizes as follows.[73]
Results of a systematic review on interventions to address health outcomes among autistic adults found emerging evidence to support mindfulness-based interventions for improving mental health. This includes decreasing stress, anxiety, ruminating thoughts, anger, and aggression.[288] An updated Cochrane review (2022) found evidence that music therapy likely improves social interactions, verbal communication, and non-verbal communication skills.[289] There has been early research looking at hyperbaric treatments in children with autism.[290] Studies on pet therapy have shown positive effects.[291]
Kalyanaraman, Sriram & Sundar, S. Shyam (2006). "The Psychological Appeal of Personalized Content in Web Portals: Does Customization Affect Attitudes and Behavior?" Journal of Communication, Vol. 56, p. 110–132
Ohl A, Grice Sheff M, Small S, Nguyen J, Paskor K, Zanjirian A (2017). "Predictors of employment status among adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder". Work. 56 (2): 345–355. doi:10.3233/WOR-172492. PMID 28211841.
^ Schaafsma SM, Pfaff DW (August 2014). "Etiologies underlying sex differences in Autism Spectrum Disorders". Frontiers in Neuroendocrinology. 35 (3): 255–71. doi:10.1016/j.yfrne.2014.03.006. PMID 24705124. S2CID 7636860.
^ a b Happé F, Ronald A (December 2008). "The 'fractionable autism triad': a review of evidence from behavioural, genetic, cognitive and neural research". Neuropsychology Review. 18 (4): 287–304. doi:10.1007/s11065-008-9076-8. PMID 18956240. S2CID 13928876.
"Childhood developmental disorders: an academic and clinical convergence point for psychiatry, neurology, psychology and pediatrics"
About half of parents of children with ASD notice their child's atypical behaviors by age 18 months, and about four-fifths notice by age 24 months.[190] If a child does not meet any of the following milestones, it "is an absolute indication to proceed with further evaluations. Delay in referral for such testing may delay early diagnosis and treatment and affect the [child's] long-term outcome."[77]
"Diagnostic criteria - a guide for all audiences". National Autistic Society. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
^ a b c Rapin I, Tuchman RF (October 2008). "Autism: definition, neurobiology, screening, diagnosis". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 55 (5): 1129–46, viii. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2008.07.005. PMID 18929056.
Sensory reactivity – An unusual reaction to certain sensory inputs such as having a negative reaction to specific sounds or textures, being fascinated by lights or movements or having an apparent indifference to pain or heat.[72]
^ Baron-Cohen S, Knickmeyer RC, Belmonte MK (November 2005). "Sex differences in the brain: implications for explaining autism" (PDF). Science. 310 (5749): 819–823. Bibcode:2005Sci...310..819B. doi:10.1126/science.1115455. PMID 16272115. S2CID 44330420.
"The savant syndrome: an extraordinary condition. A synopsis: past, present, future"
"Results and Analysis of the Autistic Not Weird 2022 Autism Survey - Autistic Not Weird". 23 March 2022. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
Stratton K, Ford A, Rusch E, Clayton EW, eds. (August 2011). "Influenza Vaccine". Adverse Effects of Vaccines: Evidence and Causality. Committee to Review Adverse Effects of Vaccines, Board on Population Health and Public Health Practice. Washington, D.C.: Institute of Medicine/National Academies Press. doi:10.17226/13164. ISBN 978-0-309-21435-3. PMID 24624471.
^ Benevides TW, Shore SM, Andresen ML, Caplan R, Cook B, Gassner DL,et al. (August 2020). "Interventions to address health outcomes among autistic adults: A systematic review". Autism. 24 (6): 1345–1359. doi:10.1177/1362361320913664. PMC 7787674. PMID 32390461. S2CID 218586379.
Baron-Cohen S (2002). "Is Asperger syndrome necessarily viewed as a disability?". Focus Autism Other Dev Disabl. 17 (3): 186–91. doi:10.1177/10883576020170030801. S2CID 145629311. A preliminary, freely readable draft, with slightly different wording in the quoted text, is in: Baron-Cohen S (2002). "Is Asperger's syndrome necessarily a disability?" (PDF). Cambridge: Autism Research Centre. Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 December 2008. Retrieved 2 December 2008.
Activation of the maternal immune system during pregnancy (by gut bacteria, bacterial toxins, an infection, or non-infectious causes) and gut bacteria in the mother that induce increased levels of Th17, a pro-inflammatory immune cell, have been associated with an increased risk of autism. Some maternal IgG antibodies that cross the placenta to provide passive immunity to the fetus can also attack the fetal brain.[171]
^ Piven J, Palmer P, Jacobi D, Childress D, Arndt S (February 1997). "Broader autism phenotype: evidence from a family history study of multiple-incidence autism families". The American Journal of Psychiatry. 154 (2): 185–190. doi:10.1176/ajp.154.2.185. PMID 9016266.
Newson E, Le Maréchal K, David C (July 2003). "Pathological demand avoidance syndrome: a necessary distinction within the pervasive developmental disorders". Archives of Disease in Childhood. 88 (7): 595–600. doi:10.1136/adc.88.7.595. PMC 1763174. PMID 12818906.
Simms MD (February 2017). "When Autistic Behavior Suggests a Disease Other than Classic Autism". Pediatric Clinics of North America. 64 (1): 127–138. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2016.08.009. PMID 27894440.
^ "Autism Sunday – Home". Autism Sunday. 2010. Archived from the original on 3 March 2010. Retrieved 17 November 2015.
For many autistic people, characteristics first appear during infancy or childhood and follow a steady course without remission (different developmental timelines are described in more detail below).[39] Autistic people may be severely impaired in some respects but average, or even superior, in others.[40][41][42]
"The emerging role of synaptic cell-adhesion pathways in the pathogenesis of autism spectrum disorders"
Sanders SJ, He X, Willsey AJ, Ercan-Sencicek AG, Samocha KE, Cicek AE,et al. (September 2015). "Insights into Autism Spectrum Disorder Genomic Architecture and Biology from 71 Risk Loci". Neuron. 87 (6): 1215–1233. doi:10.1016/j.neuron.2015.09.016. PMC 4624267. PMID 26402605.
Zafeiriou DI, Ververi A, Vargiami E (June 2007). "Childhood autism and associated comorbidities". Brain & Development. 29 (5): 257–272. doi:10.1016/j.braindev.2006.09.003. PMID 17084999. S2CID 16386209.
Gardener H, Spiegelman D, Buka SL (August 2011). "Perinatal and neonatal risk factors for autism: a comprehensive meta-analysis". Pediatrics. 128 (2): 344–55. doi:10.1542/peds.2010-1036. PMC 3387855. PMID 21746727.
^ a b CDC (18 August 2016). "Part II: A Closer Look". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 15 September 2022.
Schaafsma SM, Pfaff DW (August 2014). "Etiologies underlying sex differences in Autism Spectrum Disorders". Frontiers in Neuroendocrinology. 35 (3): 255–71. doi:10.1016/j.yfrne.2014.03.006. PMID 24705124. S2CID 7636860.
National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (25 March 2020). "What is Autism Spectrum Disorder?". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved 24 October 2021.
"Engaging people on the autism spectrum". Autism Spectrum Australia. 7 October 2013. Archived from the original on 19 March 2020.
Kan CC, Buitelaar JK, van der Gaag RJ (June 2008). "Autismespectrumstoornissen bij volwassenen" [Autism spectrum disorders in adults]. Nederlands Tijdschrift voor Geneeskunde (in Dutch). 152 (24): 1365–1369. PMID 18664213.
Solomon, Andrew (25 May 2008). "The autism rights movement". New York. Archived from the original on 27 May 2008. Retrieved 27 May 2008.
"The role of epilepsy and epileptiform EEGs in autism spectrum disorders"
"Mapping the Autistic Advantage from the Accounts of Adults Diagnosed with Autism: A Qualitative Study"
DeThorne, Laura S. (1 March 2020). "Revealing the Double Empathy Problem". The ASHA Leader. 25 (3): 58–65. doi:10.1044/leader.ftr2.25042020.58. S2CID 216359201. Retrieved 16 April 2022.
Trine Tangeraas, Juliana R Constante, Paul Hoff Backe, Alfonso Oyarzábal, Julia Neugebauer, Natalie Weinhold, Francois Boemer, François G Debray, Burcu Ozturk-Hism, Gumus Evren, Eminoglu F Tuba, Oncul Ummuhan, Emma Footitt, James Davison, Caroline Martinez, Clarissa Bueno, Irene Machado, Pilar Rodríguez-Pombo, Nouriya Al-Sannaa, Mariela De Los Santos, Jordi Muchart López, Hatice Ozturkmen-Akay, Meryem Karaca, Mustafa Tekin, Sonia Pajares, Aida Ormazabal, Stephanie D Stoway, Rafael Artuch, Marjorie Dixon, Lars Mørkrid, Angeles García-Cazorla (2 February 2023). "BCKDK deficiency: a treatable neurodevelopmental disease amenable to newborn screening". Brain. doi:10.1093/brain/awad010. PMID 36729635. Retrieved 23 February 2023.{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Schultz RT (2005). "Developmental deficits in social perception in autism: the role of the amygdala and fusiform face area". International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience. 23 (2–3): 125–41. doi:10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2004.12.012. PMID 15749240. S2CID 17078137.
Lam KS, Aman MG (May 2007). "The Repetitive Behavior Scale-Revised: independent validation in individuals with autism spectrum disorders". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 37 (5): 855–866. doi:10.1007/s10803-006-0213-z. PMID 17048092. S2CID 41034513.
"The autism-associated chromatin modifier CHD8 regulates other autism risk genes during human neurodevelopment"
^ a b c d e f g h i j k
"Making information and the words we use accessible". NHS England. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
^ Spikins P (27 March 2017). "How our autistic ancestors played an important role in human evolution". The Conversation.
^ "10 Facts about Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)". Early Childhood Development | ACF. Retrieved 6 November 2019.
^ a b c d e f g h Azhari A, Azizan F, Esposito G (July 2019). "A systematic review of gut-immune-brain mechanisms in Autism Spectrum Disorder". Developmental Psychobiology. 61 (5): 752–771. doi:10.1002/dev.21803. hdl:10220/49107. PMID 30523646. S2CID 54523742.
Pellicano E, den Houting J (April 2022). "Annual Research Review: Shifting from 'normal science' to neurodiversity in autism science". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 63 (4): 381–396. doi:10.1111/jcpp.13534. eISSN 1469-7610. ISSN 0021-9630. OCLC 01307942. PMC 9298391. PMID 34730840. S2CID 241118562.
repetitive, limited, or otherwise unusual usage of toys (e.g. lining up toys)
Generally speaking, treatment of ASD focuses on behavioral and educational interventions to target its two core symptoms: social communication deficits and restricted, repetitive behaviors.[263] If symptoms continue after behavioral strategies have been implemented, some medications can be recommended to target specific symptoms or co-existing problems such as restricted and repetitive behaviors (RRBs), anxiety, depression, hyperactivity/inattention and sleep disturbance.[263] Melatonin for example can be used for sleep problems.[264]
^ Rogers SJ, Vismara LA (January 2008). "Evidence-based comprehensive treatments for early autism". Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology. Taylor & Francis. 37 (1): 8–38. doi:10.1080/15374410701817808. PMC 2943764. PMID 18444052.
"Autistic phenotypes and genetic testing: state-of-the-art for the clinical geneticist"
In the late 1930s and early 1940s two independently-operating psychiatrists – Hans Asperger of the Vienna University Hospital and Leo Kanner of Johns Hopkins Hospital – did much to increase understanding of the condition. They both used the word autism to describe the patients they were studying in their clinical research and practice.
"No Foolin': Forget About Autism Awareness And Lighting Up Blue".
Howlin P, Moss P (May 2012). "Adults with autism spectrum disorders". Canadian Journal of Psychiatry. 57 (5): 275–83. doi:10.1177/070674371205700502. PMID 22546059. S2CID 44544407.
Baird G, Cass H, Slonims V (August 2003). "Diagnosis of autism". BMJ. 327 (7413): 488–493. doi:10.1136/bmj.327.7413.488. PMC 188387. PMID 12946972.
Crompton, Catherine J.; Debrabander, Kilee; Heasman, Brett; Milton, Damian; Sasson, Noah J. (2021). "Double Empathy: Why Autistic People Are Often Misunderstood". Frontiers for Young Minds. 9. doi:10.3389/frym.2021.554875.
"Early Infantile Autism and the Refrigerator Mother Theory (1943-1970) | The Embryo Project Encyclopedia". embryo.asu.edu. Retrieved 6 October 2022.
Fusaroli R, Lambrechts A, Bang D, Bowler DM, Gaigg SB (March 2017). "Is voice a marker for Autism spectrum disorder? A systematic review and meta-analysis" (PDF). Autism Research. 10 (3): 384–407. doi:10.1002/aur.1678. PMID 27501063. S2CID 13772771.
^ Chisholm K, Lin A, Abu-Akel A, Wood SJ (August 2015). "The association between autism and schizophrenia spectrum disorders: A review of eight alternate models of co-occurrence" (PDF). Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews. 55: 173–83. doi:10.1016/j.neubiorev.2015.04.012. PMID 25956249. S2CID 21450062.
Doja A, Roberts W (November 2006). "Immunizations and autism: a review of the literature". The Canadian Journal of Neurological Sciences. Le Journal Canadien des Sciences Neurologiques. 33 (4): 341–346. doi:10.1017/s031716710000528x. PMID 17168158.
"Mind the gap: What is missing in the autism research agenda?"
^ Pellicano E, den Houting J (April 2022). "Annual Research Review: Shifting from 'normal science' to neurodiversity in autism science". Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines. 63 (4): 381–396. doi:10.1111/jcpp.13534. PMC 9298391. PMID 34730840. S2CID 241118562.
"Communication interventions for autism spectrum disorder in minimally verbal children"
Milton, Damian E.M. (October 2012). "On the ontological status of autism: the 'double empathy problem'". Disability & Society. 27 (6): 883–887. doi:10.1080/09687599.2012.710008. ISSN 0968-7599. S2CID 54047060.
^ a b Silverman C (2008). "Fieldwork on another planet: social science perspectives on the autism spectrum". BioSocieties. 3 (3): 325–341. doi:10.1017/S1745855208006236. S2CID 145379758.
"Perinatal and neonatal risk factors for autism: a comprehensive meta-analysis"
Criticism of Facebook2021 Facebook leakCyberbullyingPromotion of anorexiaSocial media and suicideSuicide and the Internet
^ Happé F, Frith U (August 1996). "The neuropsychology of autism". Brain. OUP. 119 (4): 1377–1400. doi:10.1093/brain/119.4.1377. PMID 8813299.
"Frequency and Complexity of De Novo Structural Mutation in Autism"
Paluzzi, Alessandro; Fernandez-Miranda, Juan; Torrenti, Matthew; Gardner, Paul (2012). "Retracing the etymology of terms in neuroanatomy". Clinical Anatomy. 25 (8): 1005–1014. doi:10.1002/ca.22053. PMID 23112209. S2CID 19961679.
^ Hultgren, Anna Kristina (2013). "Lexical borrowing from English into Danish in the Sciences: An empirical investigation of 'domain loss'". International Journal of Applied Linguistics. 23 (2): 166–182. doi:10.1111/j.1473-4192.2012.00324.x.
"Online etymology dictionary". Arts and Humanities Community Resource. Oxford University. Retrieved 2018-03-22.
The dictionary's principal sources appear at Sources @ Online Etymology Dictionary
^ Lieberman, Erez; Michel, Jean-Baptiste; Jackson, Joe; Tang, Tina; Nowak, Martin A. (2007). "Quantifying the evolutionary dynamics of language". Nature. 449 (7163): 713–716. Bibcode:2007Natur.449..713L. doi:10.1038/nature06137. PMC 2460562. PMID 17928859.
Bierma, Nathan (2007-01-03). "Internet has best resources for finding just the right word". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved 2018-03-22.
^ Paluzzi, Alessandro; Fernandez-Miranda, Juan; Torrenti, Matthew; Gardner, Paul (2012). "Retracing the etymology of terms in neuroanatomy". Clinical Anatomy. 25 (8): 1005–1014. doi:10.1002/ca.22053. PMID 23112209. S2CID 19961679.
^ "Online etymology dictionary". Arts and Humanities Community Resource. Oxford University. Retrieved 2018-03-22.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Online Etymology Dictionary". Ohio University. 2003. Archived from the original on 2007-02-11. Retrieved 2007-01-05.
"A framework for analyzing semantic change of words across time"
^ Mair, Victor (2015-04-10). "Farsi shekar ast". Language Log. Retrieved 2018-03-23.Mair, Victor (2016-01-28). "'Butterfly' words as a source of etymological confusion". Language Log. Retrieved 2018-03-22.
^ The dictionary's principal sources appear at Sources @ Online Etymology Dictionary
Jatowt, Adam; Duh, Kevin (2014). "A framework for analyzing semantic change of words across time" (PDF). IEEE/ACM Joint Conference on Digital Libraries. pp. 229–238. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.678.3584. doi:10.1109/JCDL.2014.6970173. ISBN 978-1-4799-5569-5. S2CID 12357037.
Lieberman, Erez; Michel, Jean-Baptiste; Jackson, Joe; Tang, Tina; Nowak, Martin A. (2007). "Quantifying the evolutionary dynamics of language". Nature. 449 (7163): 713–716. Bibcode:2007Natur.449..713L. doi:10.1038/nature06137. PMC 2460562. PMID 17928859.
^ Jatowt, Adam; Duh, Kevin (2014). "A framework for analyzing semantic change of words across time" (PDF). IEEE/ACM Joint Conference on Digital Libraries. pp. 229–238. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.678.3584. doi:10.1109/JCDL.2014.6970173. ISBN 978-1-4799-5569-5. S2CID 12357037.
The Online Etymology Dictionary has been referenced by Oxford University's "Arts and Humanities Community Resource" catalog as "an excellent tool for those seeking the origins of words"[6] and cited in the Chicago Tribune as one of the "best resources for finding just the right word".[7] It is cited in academic work as a useful, though not definitive, reference for etymology.[8][9][10] In addition, it has been used as a data source for quantitative scholarly research.[11][12]
"Q&A With Douglas Harper: Creator of the Online Etymology Dictionary – IMSE – Journal". 18 June 2015. Retrieved 2018-03-23.
The Online Etymology Dictionary (Etymonline) is a free online dictionary, written and compiled by Douglas R. Harper, that describes the origins of English-language words.[1]
^ "Q&A With Douglas Harper: Creator of the Online Etymology Dictionary – IMSE – Journal". 18 June 2015. Retrieved 2018-03-23.
^ Bierma, Nathan (2007-01-03). "Internet has best resources for finding just the right word". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved 2018-03-22.
This page was last edited on 29 November 2022, at 17:12 (UTC).
Mair, Victor (2015-04-10). "Farsi shekar ast". Language Log. Retrieved 2018-03-23.Mair, Victor (2016-01-28). "'Butterfly' words as a source of etymological confusion". Language Log. Retrieved 2018-03-22.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Online Etymology Dictionary". Ohio University. 2003. Archived from the original on 2007-02-11. Retrieved 2007-01-05.
Hultgren, Anna Kristina (2013). "Lexical borrowing from English into Danish in the Sciences: An empirical investigation of 'domain loss'". International Journal of Applied Linguistics. 23 (2): 166–182. doi:10.1111/j.1473-4192.2012.00324.x.
Douglas Harper, an American Civil War historian and copy editor for LNP Media Group,[2][3] compiled the etymology dictionary to record the history and evolution of more than 50,000 words, including slang and technical terms.[4] The core body of its etymology information stems from The Barnhart Dictionary of Etymology by Robert Barnhart, Ernest Klein's Comprehensive Etymology Dictionary of the English Language, The Middle English Compendium, The Oxford English Dictionary, and the 1889–1902 Century Dictionary.[5] Harper also researches on digital archives. On the Etymonline homepage, Harper says that he considers himself "essentially and for the most part" a compiler and evaluator of etymology research made by others.
"Q&A With Douglas Harper: Creator of the Online Etymology Dictionary – IMSE – Journal"
"Internet has best resources for finding just the right word"
Chambers, William (1878). Chambers's Etymological Dictionary of the English Language. W. & R. Chambers.
^ Chambers, William (1878). Chambers's Etymological Dictionary of the English Language. W. & R. Chambers.
"pedant". The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (Fifth ed.). Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. 2014. Retrieved 27 March 2015.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"pédant". dictionary.cambridge.org. Retrieved 2021-06-02.
^ "pedant". The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (Fifth ed.). Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. 2014. Retrieved 27 March 2015.
Pedantry can also be an indication of specific developmental disorders. In particular, people with Autism Spectrum Disorder (formerly Asperger syndrome) often have behaviour characterized by pedantic speech.[10]
^ Anankastic personality disorder Archived 2001-04-17 at the Wayback Machine. International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 10th Revision (ICD-10).
^ pedant, n. and adj. The Oxford English Dictionary (Draft ed.). Oxford University Press. September 2008. Archived from the original on 2008-08-07.
A pedant is a person who is excessively concerned with formalism, accuracy and precision, or one who makes an ostentatious and arrogant show of learning.
"Asperger's Syndrome: Guidelines for Assessment and Intervention". 2007-04-07. Archived from the original on April 7, 2007. Retrieved 2013-07-25.
O'Brian, Robert D. (2014-02-18). A Comparative Vocabulary Study Guide: Spanish to Portuguese to English to Chinese. First Edition Design Pub. ISBN 978-1-62287-544-3.
"Pedantic – Examples and Definition of Pedantic". Literary Devices. 2015-05-29. Retrieved 2021-06-02.
^ "Pedantic - Examples and Definition of Pedantic". Literary Devices. 2015-05-29. Retrieved 2021-08-31.
Obsessive–compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) is in part characterized by a form of pedantry that is excessively concerned with the correct following of rules, procedures, and practices.[9] Sometimes the rules that OCPD sufferers obsessively follow are of their own devising, or are corruptions or reinterpretations of the letter of actual rules.
^ "Pedantic – Examples and Definition of Pedantic". Literary Devices. 2015-05-29. Retrieved 2021-06-02.
^ "Asperger's Syndrome: Guidelines for Assessment and Intervention". 2007-04-07. Archived from the original on April 7, 2007. Retrieved 2013-07-25.
pedant, n. and adj. The Oxford English Dictionary (Draft ed.). Oxford University Press. September 2008. Archived from the original on 2008-08-07.
The English language word pedant comes from the French pédant (used in 1566 in Darme & Hatzfeldster's Dictionnaire général de la langue française) or its older mid-15th century Italian source pedante, 'teacher, schoolmaster'.[1][2] (Compare the Spanish pedante.[3]) The origin of the Italian pedante is uncertain, but several dictionaries suggest that it was contracted from the medieval Latin pædagogans, present participle of pædagogare, 'to act as pedagogue, to teach' (Du Cange)[4] (see pedagogy).[5][6] The Latin word is derived from Greek παιδαγωγός, paidagōgós, παιδ- 'child' + ἀγειν 'to lead', which originally referred to a slave who escorted children to and from school but later meant "a source of instruction or guidance".[7][8]
^ O'Brian, Robert D. (2014-02-18). A Comparative Vocabulary Study Guide: Spanish to Portuguese to English to Chinese. First Edition Design Pub. ISBN 978-1-62287-544-3.
A Comparative Vocabulary Study Guide: Spanish to Portuguese to English to Chinese
"Pedantic - Examples and Definition of Pedantic". Literary Devices. 2015-05-29. Retrieved 2021-08-31.
Anankastic personality disorder Archived 2001-04-17 at the Wayback Machine. International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 10th Revision (ICD-10).
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"pédant". dictionary.cambridge.org. Retrieved 2021-06-02.
This page was last edited on 14 March 2023, at 15:22 (UTC).
Robles, Heriberto Camacho Becerra, Juan José Comparán Rizo, Felipe Castillo (1998). Manual de etimologías grecolatinas (3. ed.). México: Limusa. p. 19. ISBN 968-18-5542-6. Archived from the original on 24 January 2023. Retrieved 9 January 2023.
^ Census INEC estimate for 2020 Archived 7 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine (véase "Proyección de Población por municipio 2008–2020")
^ Diccionario Panhispánico de Dudas Archived 16 April 2008 at the Wayback Machine, 1st ed.
Rubino, Carl (2008), "Zamboangueño Chavacano and the Potentive Mode.",in Michaelis, Susanne (ed.), Roots of Creole Structures: Weighing the Contribution of Substrates and Superstrates, Amsterdam: Benjamins, pp. 279–299, ISBN 978-90-272-5255-5, archived from the original on 19 December 2020, retrieved 28 October 2020
^ Engelberg, Stefan. "The Influence of German on the Lexicon of Palauan and Kosraean (Dissertation)" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 21 December 2012. Retrieved 23 August 2012.
"PROYECCIONES DE POBLACIÓN" (in Spanish). CO: DANE. 2022. Archived from the original on 22 March 2019.
There are 501,043 people who speak another language as mother tongue: PA, Ethnologue, archived from the original on 21 October 2011, retrieved 17 October 2011
"Academia Boliviana de la Lengua". Bolivia. Archived from the original on 29 November 2010. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x
Medina López, Javier (1992–1993). "Estandarización lingüística en las hablas canarias". Universitas Tarraconensis. Revista de Filologia. Publicacions Universitat Rovira i Virgili (14): 175–176. ISSN 2604-3432. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 19 January 2022.
^ a b c d e f g h i
"Scholarly Societies Project". Lib.uwaterloo.ca. Archived from the original on 23 September 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
^ "Euromonitor, 2012" (PDF). exteriores.gob.es. p. 32. Archived (PDF) from the original on 25 April 2015. Retrieved 19 April 2015.
Medium projection, PH: National Statistics Office, 2015, archived from the original on 3 April 2019, retrieved 8 June 2013
"Exclusión de ch y ll del abecedario | Real Academia Española". www.rae.es. Archived from the original on 28 April 2020. Retrieved 1 April 2020.
Moreno Fernández, Francisco; Otero, Jaime (2008), Atlas de la lengua española en el mundo, Barcelona: Ariel
"Most Studied Foreign Languages in the U.S". Infoplease.com. Archived from the original on 14 August 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
^ The IPA symbol "turned y" (ʎ), with its "tail" leaning to the right, resembles, but is technically different from, the Greek letter lambda (λ), whose tail leans to the left.
^ "czso.cz" (in Czech). czso.cz. 31 December 2013. Archived from the original on 31 March 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ "Most Studied Foreign Languages in the U.S". Infoplease.com. Archived from the original on 14 August 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
^ Philippines, Spanish differences, archived from the original on 21 December 2012
^ "GT", The World factbook, CIA, archived from the original on 15 April 2021, retrieved 27 January 2021, Spanish (official) 69.9%, Amerindian languages 40%
"(2012)". ksh.hu. Archived from the original on 16 November 2013. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ Constitución de la República del Paraguay Archived 8 September 2014 at the Wayback Machine, Article 140
^ "Census ONE estimate for 2022" (in Spanish). Oficina Nacional de Estadística. Archived from the original on 14 November 2019. Retrieved 13 July 2021.
^ 2012 censusArchived 5 November 2013 at the Wayback Machine
"Academia Filipina de la Lengua Española" (in Spanish). Philippines. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ "cvc.cervantes.es" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 6 January 2012. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ Hernández Campoy, Juan Manuel; Villena Ponsoda, Juan Andrés (2009). "Standardness and nonstandardness in Spain: dialect attrition and revitalization of regional dialects of Spanish". International Journal of the Sociology of Language. 196–197 (196–197): 185–186. doi:10.1515/IJSL.2009.021. S2CID 145000590. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 24 January 2022.
^ "FAQ". The Secretariat for The Implementation of Spanish. Trinidad and Tobago: Government of the Republic. Archived from the original on 3 November 2010. Retrieved 10 January 2012.
in words that end with a monophthong, on the penultimate syllable
"Association of Spanish Language Academies" (in Spanish). Asale. Archived from the original on 23 September 2010. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
The phoneme /θ/ (spelled c before e or i and spelled ⟨z⟩ elsewhere), a voiceless dental fricative as in English thing, is maintained by a majority of Spain's population, especially in the northern and central parts of the country. In other areas (some parts of southern Spain, the Canary Islands, and the Americas), /θ/ does not exist and /s/ occurs instead. The maintenance of phonemic contrast is called distinción in Spanish, while the merger is generally called seseo (in reference to the usual realization of the merged phoneme as [s]) or, occasionally, ceceo (referring to its interdental realization, [θ], in some parts of southern Spain). In most of Hispanic America, the spelled ⟨c⟩ before ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩, and spelled ⟨z⟩ is always pronounced as a voiceless dental sibilant.
IBGE population estimation [IBGE publishes the populational estimates for municipalities in 2 011] (in Portuguese), BR, 2022, archived from the original on 16 November 2015, retrieved 7 January 2016
In addition, in Australia and New Zealand, there are native Spanish communities, resulting from emigration from Spanish-speaking countries (mainly from the Southern Cone).[75]
In the Middle Ages, the language spoken in Castile was generically referred to as Romance and later also as Lengua vulgar.[18] Later in the period, it gained geographical specification as Romance castellano ("romanz castellano", "romanz de Castiella"), "lenguaje de Castiella", and ultimately simply as castellano (noun).[18]
With the exclusion of a very small number of regional terms such as México (see Toponymy of Mexico), pronunciation can be entirely determined from spelling. Under the orthographic conventions, a typical Spanish word is stressed on the syllable before the last if it ends with a vowel (not including ⟨y⟩) or with a vowel followed by ⟨n⟩ or an ⟨s⟩; it is stressed on the last syllable otherwise. Exceptions to this rule are indicated by placing an acute accent on the stressed vowel.
^ Mojarro, Jorge (6 October 2020). "Spanish is an endangered Filipino language". The Manila Times. Archived from the original on 18 January 2022. Retrieved 18 January 2022.
"Academia Panameña de la Lengua". Panama. Archived from the original on 29 November 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
North American DialectsPennsylvaniaLouisianienHoumaCanadianAcadianChiacSt. Marys Bay FrenchBrayonNewfoundlandQuebecoisJoualMagouaFranco-OntarianMétisDetroit River CanadienNew EnglandMissouri French
^ Eberhard, David M.; Simons, Gary F.; Fennig, Charles D. (2019). "Summary by language size". Ethnologue. SIL International. Archived from the original on 6 August 2019. Retrieved 3 March 2022.
"South America :: Paraguay — The World Factbook – Central Intelligence Agency". www.cia.gov. Archived from the original on 31 December 2018. Retrieved 18 March 2020.
^ 1,816,773 Spanish + 1,200,000 Spanish creole: Quilis, Antonio (1996), La lengua española en Filipinas (PDF), Cervantes virtual, p. 54 and 55, archived (PDF) from the original on 6 August 2009, retrieved 1 December 2009
"Annual Mid year Population Estimates: 2020". U.K. Gov. Census. 2020. Archived from the original on 15 May 2016.
"UN 2011 to 2100 estimate" (MS Excel PDF). UN Population data. Archived from the original on 10 May 2015. Retrieved 7 February 2018.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: others (link)
^ "Census estimate for 2021". rosstat.gov.ru. 1 January 2021. Archived from the original on 14 January 2022. Retrieved 14 January 2022.
"Harold Bloom on Don Quixote, the first modern novel | Books | The Guardian". London: Books.guardian.co.uk. 12 December 2003. Archived from the original on 14 June 2008. Retrieved 18 July 2009.
"Proyecciones de Población". ine.gov.ve. Archived from the original on 13 November 2015. Retrieved 12 October 2014. (2020)
El español en el contexto Sociolingüístico marroquí: Evolución y perspectivas (page 39)
"(2013)". db1.stat.gov.lt. Archived from the original on 19 August 2010. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
Often considered to be a substratum word. Other theories suggest, on the basis of what is used to make cheese, a derivation from Latin brandeum (originally meaning a linen covering, later a thin cloth for relic storage) through an intermediate root *brandea. For the development of the meaning, cf. Spanish manteca, Portuguese manteiga, probably from Latin mantica ('sack'), Italian formaggio and French fromage from formaticus. Romanian Explanatory Dictionary Archived 18 February 2020 at the Wayback Machine
"Accueil – INSAE". www.insae-bj.org. Archived from the original on 17 December 2015. Retrieved 20 April 2016.
7Dialectal variation											Toggle Dialectal variation subsection																					7.1Phonology																											7.2Morphology																								7.2.1Voseo																								7.2.1.1Distribution in Spanish-speaking regions of the Americas																														7.2.2Ustedes																											7.2.3Usted																											7.2.4Third-person object pronouns																														7.3Vocabulary
La RAE avala que Burgos acoge las primeras palabras escritas en castellano
"2016 INE estimate for 2022". 2022. Archived from the original on 22 March 2019.
"Hacia una historia de la puesta en escena de La vida es sueño"
in words that end with a consonant, on the last syllable, with the exception of two grammatical endings: -n, for third-person-plural of verbs, and -s, for plural of nouns and adjectives or for second-person-singular of verbs. However, even though a significant number of nouns and adjectives ending with -n are also stressed on the penult (joven, virgen, mitin), the great majority of nouns and adjectives ending with -n are stressed on their last syllable (capitán, almacén, jardín, corazón).
"Population – Key Indicators | Latvijas statistika". Csb.gov.lv. Archived from the original on 28 June 2013. Retrieved 14 June 2013.
Butt, John; Benjamin, Carmen (2011). A New Reference Grammar of Modern Spanish (5th ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-1-4441-3769-9.
^ "Census estimate for 2020". Stats.gov.cn. Archived from the original on 11 May 2021. Retrieved 14 January 2022.
There are 150,200 people who speak another language as mother tongue, UY, Ethnologue, archived from the original on 16 November 2011, retrieved 17 October 2011
^ "Netherland Census ClockPop". Cbs.nl. Archived from the original on 17 June 2009. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
^ Baquero Velásquez, Julia M.; Westphal Montt, Germán F. (2014). "UN ANÁLISIS SINCRÓNICO DEL VOSEO VERBAL CHILENO Y RIOPLATENSE". Forma y Función (in Spanish). 27 (2): 11–40. doi:10.15446/fyf.v27n2.47558.
While far from the heyday of the Spanish protectorate in Morocco, there are some presence of the Spanish language in the north of Morocco, stemming for example from the availability of certain Spanish-language media.[55] Many northern Moroccans have rudimentary knowledge of Spanish.[55] Spanish has also presence in the education system of the country (either by means of selected education centers running the Spain's education system, primarily located in the North, and the availability of Spanish as foreign language subject in secondary education).[55]
^ a b c Eurobarometr 2012 Archived 29 April 2013 at the Wayback Machine (page T40): Native speakers.
^ Eleanor Greet Cotton, John M. Sharp (1988) Spanish in the Americas, Volume 2, pp.154–155, URL Archived 15 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine
^ "31 December 2020 estimation". ONEI. Archived from the original on 14 March 2020.
"Academia Guatemalteca de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Guatemala. Archived from the original on 4 August 2008. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Preantepenultimate stress (stress on the fourth-to-last syllable) occurs rarely, only on verbs with clitic pronouns attached (e.g. guardándoselos 'saving them for him/her/them/you').
"El español: una lengua viva. Informe 2021 (Pág. 11 y 13)" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 15 October 2021. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
^ "2016 INE estimate for 2022". 2022. Archived from the original on 22 March 2019.
^ Article XIV, Sec 7: "For purposes of communication and instruction, the official languages of the Philippines are Filipino and, until otherwise provided by law, English. The regional languages are the auxiliary official languages in the regions and shall serve as auxiliary media of instruction therein. Spanish and Arabic shall be promoted on a voluntary and optional basis."
^ "El Español en los Campamentos de Refugiados Saharauis (Tinduf, Algeria)" (PDF). Cvc.cervantes.es. Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 December 2016. Retrieved 20 May 2015.
Spanish in Belize. 52.1% speak Spanish with very well level. 10.7% speak Spanish with intermediate level
"Historia de un país" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 15 March 2015.
The variety with the most speakers is Mexican Spanish. It is spoken by more than twenty percent of the world's Spanish speakers (more than 112 million of the total of more than 500 million, according to the table above). One of its main features is the reduction or loss of unstressed vowels, mainly when they are in contact with the sound /s/.[210][211]
^ "Census Bureau (01/July/2019)". Census.gov. Archived from the original on 4 March 2021. Retrieved 14 December 2020.
"Eurostat estimate to 1/1/2011". Epp.eurostat.ec.europa.eu. 2 April 2012. Archived from the original on 20 July 2011. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
The phoneme /ʎ/, spelled ⟨ll⟩, a palatal lateral consonant that can be approximated by the sound of the ⟨lli⟩ of English million, tends to be maintained in less-urbanized areas of northern Spain and in highland areas of South America. Meanwhile, in the speech of most other Spanish-speakers, it is merged with /ʝ/ ("curly-tail j"), a non-lateral, usually voiced, usually fricative, palatal consonant, sometimes compared to English /j/ (yod) as in yacht and spelled ⟨y⟩ in Spanish. As with other forms of allophony across world languages, the small difference of the spelled ⟨ll⟩ and the spelled ⟨y⟩ is usually not perceived (the difference is not heard) by people who do not produce them as different phonemes. Such a phonemic merger is called yeísmo in Spanish. In Rioplatense Spanish, the merged phoneme is generally pronounced as a postalveolar fricative, either voiced [ʒ] (as in English measure or the French ⟨j⟩) in the central and western parts of the dialectal region (zheísmo), or voiceless [ʃ] (as in the French ⟨ch⟩ or Portuguese ⟨x⟩) in and around Buenos Aires and Montevideo (sheísmo).[215]
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". ohchr.org. Archived from the original on 8 January 2022. Retrieved 8 January 2022.
^ German census, DE: Destatis, 2020, archived from the original on 28 June 2016
^ "PROYECCIONES DE POBLACIÓN" (in Spanish). CO: DANE. 2022. Archived from the original on 22 March 2019.
Equatorial Guinea is the only Spanish-speaking country located entirely in Africa, with the language introduced during the Spanish colonial period.[47] Enshrined in the constitution as an official language (alongside French and Portuguese), Spanish features prominently in the Equatoguinean education system and is the primarylanguage used in government and business.[48] Whereas it is not the mother tongue of virtually any of its speakers, the vast majority of the population is proficient in Spanish.[49] The Instituto Cervantes estimates that 87.7% of the population is fluent in Spanish.[50] This figure highlights Equatorial Guinea as having a higher proportion of proficient speakers of a colonial language relative to the respective metropolitan languages in other West and Central African nations.[51]
^ "Racial and Ethnic Diversity in the United States: 2010 Census and 2020 Census". U.S. Census Bureau. 12 August 2021. Archived from the original on 15 August 2021. Retrieved 23 January 2021.
"US now has more Spanish speakers than Spain – only Mexico has more"
"Academia Argentina de Letras". Argentina. 25 March 2010. Archived from the original on 28 July 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ "Academia Puertorriqueña de la Lengua Española". Puerto Rico. Archived from the original on 24 August 2010. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Cressey, William Whitney (1978). Spanish Phonology and Morphology: A Generative View. Georgetown University Press. ISBN 0-87840-045-1.
^ "Spanish Influence on Language, Culture, and Philippine History". Archived from the original on 5 March 2015. Retrieved 15 March 2015.
"Similar languages to Spanish". EZGlot. Archived from the original on 21 June 2017. Retrieved 24 June 2017.
^ "Academia Panameña de la Lengua". Panama. Archived from the original on 29 November 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
^ "Eurostat estimate to 1/1/2011". Epp.eurostat.ec.europa.eu. 2 April 2012. Archived from the original on 20 July 2011. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
^ "INSEE estimate to 2021". Insee.fr. Archived from the original on 5 November 2016. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
1Name of the language and etymology											Toggle Name of the language and etymology subsection																					1.1Name of the language																											1.2Etymology
^ El español en el contexto Sociolingüístico marroquí: Evolución y perspectivas (page 39): Between 4 and 7 million people have Spanish knowledge (M. Ammadi, 2002) Archived 6 November 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Lipski, John M (2006).Face, Timothy L; Klee, Carol A (eds.). "Too close for comfort? the genesis of "portuñol/portunhol"" (PDF). Selected Proceedings of the 8th Hispanic Linguistics Symposium. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project: 1–22. Archived (PDF) from the original on 16 December 2008. Retrieved 29 December 2008.
^ "(2013)". db1.stat.gov.lt. Archived from the original on 19 August 2010. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ "Novo ensino médio terá currículo flexível e mais horas de aula". O Globo. 23 September 2016. Archived from the original on 23 September 2016. Retrieved 23 September 2016.
Eberhard, David M.; Simons, Gary F.; Fennig, Charles D. (2019). "Summary by language size". Ethnologue. SIL International. Archived from the original on 6 August 2019. Retrieved 3 March 2022.
^ a b c .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Spanish native speakers worldwide in 2023: an estimate". www.bergesinstitutespanish.com. Retrieved 22 February 2023. Estimate. Corrected as Equatorial Guinea is mistakenly included (no native speakers there)
"Universal Declaration of Human Rights". United Nations. Archived from the original on 16 March 2021. Retrieved 8 January 2022.
^ "CL", Country, Ethnologue, archived from the original on 3 February 2013, retrieved 12 October 2011, There are 281,600 people who speak another language, mainly Mapudungun (250.000)
Martínez-Celdrán, Eugenio; Fernández-Planas, Ana Ma.; Carrera-Sabaté, Josefina (2003). "Castilian Spanish". Journal of the International Phonetic Association. 33 (2): 255–59. doi:10.1017/S0025100303001373.
^ "Census", The World factbook, US: CIA, 2007, archived from the original on 19 November 2021, retrieved 4 October 2011, Spanish (official) 84.1%, Quechua (official) 13%, Aymara 1.7%, Ashaninka 0.3%, other native languages (includes a large number of minor Amazonian languages) 0.7%, other 0.2%
^ (1 July, 2021), US: Census Bureau, archived from the original on 4 March 2021, retrieved 4 November 2020
cvc.cervantes.es Archived 27 December 2021 at the Wayback Machine. There are 13,7%proficient Spanish speakers and 74% as a second language
^ "Academia Colombiana de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Colombia. Archived from the original on 19 February 2008. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
"Gloria Nistal Rosique: El caso del español en Guinea ecuatorial, Instituto Cervantes"
^ Robles, Heriberto Camacho Becerra, Juan José Comparán Rizo, Felipe Castillo (1998). Manual de etimologías grecolatinas (3. ed.). México: Limusa. p. 19. ISBN 968-18-5542-6. Archived from the original on 24 January 2023. Retrieved 9 January 2023.
Spanish continued to be official and used in Philippine literature and press during the early years of American administration after the Spanish–American War but was eventually replaced by English as the primary language of administration and education by the 1920s.[62] Nevertheless, despite a significant decrease in influence and speakers, Spanish remained an official language of the Philippines upon independence in 1946, alongside English and Filipino, a standardized version of Tagalog.
^ "2020 US. census Bureau". Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 December 2015.
"educacionbogota.edu.co". Archived from the original on 13 January 2022. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
In the following table of consonant phonemes, /ʎ/ is marked with an asterisk (*) to indicate that it is preserved only in some dialects. In most dialects it has been merged with /ʝ/ in the merger called yeísmo. Similarly, /θ/ is also marked with an asterisk to indicate that most dialects do not distinguish it from /s/ (see seseo), although this is not a true merger but an outcome of different evolution of sibilants in Southern Spain.
^ Ten Reasons (PDF), ES: Mepsyd, p. 23, archived from the original (PDF) on 25 May 2017
^ Martos, Isabel. "Linguistic Policy in the Camps of Sahrawi Refugees". researchgate. Universidad de Alcalá. Archived from the original on 22 May 2021. Retrieved 19 August 2018.
"PE", Country, Ethnologue, archived from the original on 2 December 2011, retrieved 21 September 2011, There are 5,782,260 people who speak other language as mother tongue (main languages: Quechua (among 32 Quechua's varieties) 4,773,900, Aymara (2 varieties) 661 000, Chinese 100,000).
El español: una lengua viva – Informe 2021 (PDF) (Report). Instituto Cervantes. 2021. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 February 2020.
^ "Academia Ecuatoriana de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Ecuador. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
8Relation to other languages											Toggle Relation to other languages subsection																					8.1Judaeo-Spanish
"INEC estimate for 2022". INEC. Archived from the original on 27 March 2012. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
"Información sobre el Instituto Cervantes. Quiénes somos: qué es el Instituto Cervantes". www.cervantes.es. Archived from the original on 10 April 2019. Retrieved 22 March 2022.
Judaeo-Spanish, also known as Ladino,[235] is a variety of Spanish which preserves many features of medieval Spanish and Portuguese and is spoken by descendants of the Sephardi Jews who were expelled from Spain in the 15th century.[235] Conversely, in Portugal the vast majority of the Portuguese Jews converted and became 'New Christians'. Therefore, its relationship to Spanish is comparable with that of the Yiddish language to German. Ladino speakers today are almost exclusively Sephardi Jews, with family roots in Turkey, Greece, or the Balkans, and living mostly in Israel, Turkey, and the United States, with a few communities in Hispanic America.[235] Judaeo-Spanish lacks the Native American vocabulary which was acquired by standard Spanish during the Spanish colonial period, and it retains many archaic features which have since been lost in standard Spanish. It contains, however, other vocabulary which is not found in standard Spanish, including vocabulary from Hebrew, French, Greek and Turkish, and other languages spoken where the Sephardim settled.
^ "Academia Cubana de la Lengua". Cuba. Archived from the original on 19 December 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
The Spanish 1970 census claims 16.648 Spanish speakers in Western Sahara ([3] Archived 17 September 2009 at the Wayback Machine) but probably most of them were people born in Spain who left after the Moroccan annexation
12See also											Toggle See also subsection																					12.1Spanish words and phrases																											12.2Spanish-speaking world																											12.3Influences on the Spanish language																											12.4Dialects and languages influenced by Spanish																											12.5Spanish dialects and varieties
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in English:
"Languages", VE, Ethnologue, archived from the original on 10 March 2013, retrieved 30 May 2013, There are 1,098,244 people who speak other language as their mother tongue (main languages: Chinese 400,000, Portuguese 254,000, Wayuu 199,000, Arabic 110,000)
^ Quispe Fernández, Ezio (2022). "Cifras" [Numbers] (PDF) (in Spanish). PE: INEI. Archived from the original (PDF) on 10 October 2017.
^ There are 14,100 people who speak other language as their mother tongue (main language, Kekchí with 12,300 speakers): Ethnologue Archived 7 February 2016 at the Wayback Machine.
Charles B. Chang, "Variation in palatal production in Buenos Aires Spanish" Archived 4 October 2013 at the Wayback Machine. Selected Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Spanish Sociolinguistics, ed. Maurice Westmoreland and Juan Antonio Thomas, 54–63. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project, 2008.
Spanish was an official language of the Philippines from the beginning of Spanish administration in 1565 to a constitutional change in 1973. During Spanish colonization, it was the language of government, trade, and education, and was spoken as a first language by Spaniards and educated Filipinos (Ilustrados). Despite a public education system set up by the colonial government, by the end of Spanish rule in 1898, only about 10% of the population had knowledge of Spanish, mostly those of Spanish descent or elite standing.[61]
"Academia Dominicana de la Lengua". República Dominicana. Archived from the original on 22 December 2010. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ Devlin, Thomas Moore (30 January 2019). "What Are The Most-Used Languages On The Internet?". +Babbel Magazine. Archived from the original on 6 December 2021. Retrieved 13 July 2021.
"GT", The World factbook, CIA, archived from the original on 15 April 2021, retrieved 27 January 2021, Spanish (official) 69.9%, Amerindian languages 40%
Spanish is marked by palatalization of the Latin double consonants (geminates) nn and ll (thus Latinannum > Spanish año, and Latin anellum > Spanishanillo).
^ Spanish speakers older than 5 years old (Table, US: Census Bureau, 2021, archived from the original on 4 March 2021, retrieved 4 November 2022)
Cervantes, Biblioteca Virtual Miguel de. "La época visigoda / Susana Rodríguez Rosique | Biblioteca Virtual Miguel de Cervantes". www.cervantesvirtual.com (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 8 February 2017. Retrieved 7 February 2017.
Due to their proximity to Spanish-speaking countries and small existing native Spanish speaking minority, Trinidad and Tobago has implemented Spanish language teaching into its education system. The Trinidad government launched the Spanish as a First Foreign Language (SAFFL) initiative in March 2005.[41]
"Resultado 2010 – Persona". Censo2010.aw. 6 October 2010. Archived from the original on 17 January 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
"Census estimate for 2022". Archived (PDF) from the original on 22 April 2020. Retrieved 18 March 2020.
Spanish in the world 2012 (Instituto Cervantes): 3,017,265 Spanish speakers. 439,000 with native knowledge, 2,557,773 with limited knowledge (page 6), and 20,492 Spanish students (page 10).
The IPA symbol "turned y" (ʎ), with its "tail" leaning to the right, resembles, but is technically different from, the Greek letter lambda (λ), whose tail leans to the left.
^ "El español: una lengua viva. Informe 2021 (Pág. 11 y 13)" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 15 October 2021. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
^ "Resultado 2010 – Persona". Censo2010.aw. 6 October 2010. Archived from the original on 17 January 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
"31 December 2020 estimation". ONEI. Archived from the original on 14 March 2020.
Spanish in the World Archived 6 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine, Language Magazine, 18 November 2019.
Quintana, Lucía; Mora, Juan Pablo (2002). "Enseñanza del acervo léxico árabe de la lengua española" (PDF). ASELE. Actas XIII: 705. Archived (PDF) from the original on 28 May 2016. Retrieved 23 October 2016.: "El léxico español de procedencia árabe es muy abundante: se ha señalado que constituye, aproximadamente, un 8% del vocabulario total"
"native knowledge speakers" (in Spanish). Realinstitutoelcano.org. 18 February 2009. Archived from the original on 9 February 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
"Census of India, 2022". Archived from the original on 19 June 2016. Retrieved 14 January 2022.
^ "Academia Norteamericana de la Lengua Española". United States. Archived from the original on 12 February 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Ethnologue, 18th Ed.: es:Anexo:Hablantes de español según Ethnologue (edición 18).
Census INEC estimate for 2020 Archived 7 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine (véase "Proyección de Población por municipio 2008–2020")
^ 2022 population estimate (in Spanish), MX: CONAPO estimate, archived from the original on 10 February 2018, retrieved 30 January 2018
Lipski, John M. (2004). "The Spanish language of Equatorial Guinea" (PDF). Arizona Journal of Hispanic Cultural Studies. 8: 117. Archived (PDF) from the original on 21 January 2022. Retrieved 19 January 2022.
A related dialect is Haketia, the Judaeo-Spanish of northern Morocco. This too tended to assimilate with modern Spanish, during the Spanish occupation of the region.
"Spanish language in Philippines". Archived from the original on 18 March 2015. Retrieved 1 March 2015.
^ Legaspi, Amita O. (3 July 2012). "PNoy (President Benigno Aquino III) and Spain's Queen Sofia welcome return of Spanish language in Philippine schools". GMA News. Archived from the original on 7 July 2012. Retrieved 8 August 2013.
^ "Languages", VE, Ethnologue, archived from the original on 10 March 2013, retrieved 30 May 2013, There are 1,098,244 people who speak other language as their mother tongue (main languages: Chinese 400,000, Portuguese 254,000, Wayuu 199,000, Arabic 110,000)
"MX", The World Factbook, USA: CIA, archived from the original on 26 January 2021, retrieved 1 May 2011: Spanish only 92.7%
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p Eurobarometr 2012 Archived 29 April 2013 at the Wayback Machine (page T74): Non native people who speak Spanish very well.
^ Statcan, CA: GC, February 1995, archived from the original on 4 July 2016, retrieved 7 August 2012
Bureau, US Census. "Language Projections: 2010 to 2020". The United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on 19 August 2019. Retrieved 19 August 2019.
The phoneme /ʃ/ is in parentheses () to indicate that it appears only in loanwords. Each of the voiced obstruent phonemes /b/, /d/, /ʝ/, and /ɡ/ appears to the right of a pair of voiceless phonemes, to indicate that, while the voiceless phonemes maintain a phonemic contrast between plosive (or affricate) and fricative, the voiced ones alternate allophonically (i.e. without phonemic contrast) between plosive and approximant pronunciations.
^ "Harold Bloom on Don Quixote, the first modern novel | Books | The Guardian". London: Books.guardian.co.uk. 12 December 2003. Archived from the original on 14 June 2008. Retrieved 18 July 2009.
Deviations from this norm (more common in Spain than in the Americas) are called "leísmo", "loísmo", or "laísmo", according to which respective pronoun, le, lo, or la, has expanded beyond the etymological usage (le as a direct object, or lo or la as an indirect object).
^ Medina López, Javier (1992–1993). "Estandarización lingüística en las hablas canarias". Universitas Tarraconensis. Revista de Filologia. Publicacions Universitat Rovira i Virgili (14): 175–176. ISSN 2604-3432. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 19 January 2022.
"Countries with most Spanish speakers 2021". Statista. Archived from the original on 17 May 2022. Retrieved 17 May 2022.
^ Spanish creole: Quilis, Antonio (1996), La lengua española en Filipinas (PDF), Cervantes virtual, p. 54 and 55, archived (PDF) from the original on 6 August 2009, retrieved 1 December 2009
"Census estimate for 2021". rosstat.gov.ru. 1 January 2021. Archived from the original on 14 January 2022. Retrieved 14 January 2022.
The Spanish phonemic inventory consists of five vowel phonemes (/a/, /e/, /i/, /o/, /u/) and 17 to 19 consonant phonemes (the exact number depending on the dialect[199]). The main allophonic variation among vowels is the reduction of the high vowels /i/ and /u/ to glides—[j] and [w] respectively—when unstressed and adjacent to another vowel. Some instances of the mid vowels /e/ and /o/, determined lexically, alternate with the diphthongs /je/ and /we/ respectively when stressed, in a process that is better described as morphophonemic rather than phonological, as it is not predictable from phonology alone.
The figure of 2 900 000 Spanish speakers is in Thompson, RW, Pluricentric languages: differing norms in different nations, p. 45
Spanish is spoken by very small communities in Angola due to Cuban influence from the Cold War and in South Sudan among South Sudanese natives that relocated to Cuba during the Sudanese wars and returned for their country's independence.[52]
"Internet World Users by Language". Miniwatts Marketing Group. 2008. Archived from the original on 26 April 2012. Retrieved 20 November 2007.
Valle, José del; Villa, Laura (2006). "Spanish in Brazil: Language Policy, Business, and Cultural Propaganda". Language Policy. 5 (4): 376–377. doi:10.1007/s10993-006-9035-2. S2CID 144373408. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 5 February 2022.
Weedon, Alan (9 August 2019). "The Philippines is fronting up to its Spanish heritage, and for some it's paying off". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on 12 December 2021. Retrieved 18 January 2022.
In voseo, vos is the subject form (vos decís, "you say") and the form for the object of a preposition (voy con vos, "I am going with you"), while the direct and indirect object forms, and the possessives, are the same as those associated with tú: Vos sabés que tus amigos te respetan ("You know your friends respect you").
"Academia Ecuatoriana de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Ecuador. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ www.abc.com.py Archived 13 January 2022 at the Wayback Machine According to DGEEC Census 2012, 7.93% is monolingual of Guarani.
^ Statistical Institute of Belize (2013). Belize Population and Housing Census 2010: Country Report (PDF) (Report). Archived from the original (PDF) on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 17 February 2018.
^ World wide Spanish language, Sispain, archived from the original on 4 March 2016, retrieved 11 October 2012
^ There are 501,043 people who speak another language as mother tongue: PA, Ethnologue, archived from the original on 21 October 2011, retrieved 17 October 2011
"South America :: Bolivia — The World Factbook – Central Intelligence Agency". www.cia.gov. Archived from the original on 27 September 2021. Retrieved 13 March 2020.
^ "bfs.admin.ch". 19 September 2019. Archived from the original on 20 September 2019. Retrieved 3 February 2022.
^ "Population – Key Indicators | Latvijas statistika". Csb.gov.lv. Archived from the original on 28 June 2013. Retrieved 14 June 2013.
US now has more Spanish speakers than Spain – only Mexico has more
2022 population estimate (in Spanish), MX: CONAPO estimate, archived from the original on 10 February 2018, retrieved 30 January 2018
Spanish is classified by its rhythm as a syllable-timed language: each syllable has approximately the same duration regardless of stress.[201][202]
"2020 US. census Bureau". Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 December 2015.
Since 2010, none of the digraphs (ch, ll, rr, gu, qu) are considered letters by the Royal Spanish Academy.[238]
^ Lipski, John M (2006).Face, Timothy L; Klee, Carol A (eds.). "Too close for comfort? the genesis of "portuñol/portunhol"" (PDF). Selected Proceedings of the 8th Hispanic Linguistics Symposium. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project: 1–22. Archived (PDF) from the original on 16 December 2008. Retrieved 29 December 2008.
"Academia Peruana de la Lengua". Peru. Archived from the original on 12 October 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
Instituto Cervantes, Cervantes Institute. A Spanish government agency, responsible for promoting the study and the teaching of the Spanish language and culture.
^ "Puerto Rico Elevates English". the New York Times. 29 January 1993. Archived from the original on 22 January 2008. Retrieved 6 October 2007.
The sound that corresponds to the letter ⟨s⟩ is pronounced in northern and central Spain as a voiceless "apico-alveolar" sibilant [s̺] (also described acoustically as "grave" and articulatorily as "retracted"), with a weak "hushing" sound reminiscent of retroflex fricatives. In Andalusia, Canary Islands and most of Hispanic America (except in the Paisa region of Colombia) it is pronounced as a voiceless dental sibilant [s], much like the most frequent pronunciation of the /s/ of English. Because /s/ is one of the most frequent phonemes in Spanish, the difference of pronunciation is one of the first to be noted by a Spanish-speaking person to differentiate Spaniards from Spanish-speakers of the Americas.[citation needed]
"bfs.admin.ch". 19 September 2019. Archived from the original on 20 September 2019. Retrieved 3 February 2022.
"Costa Rica". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 25 March 2015. Retrieved 1 March 2015.
^ "Cifras" (PDF), El español: una lengua viva (in Spanish), ES: Instituto Cervantes, p. 10, archived (PDF) from the original on 24 February 2016, retrieved 14 February 2016 Students across the World.
FundéuRAE, Foundation of Emerging Spanish. A non-profit organization with collaboration of the RAE which mission is to clarify doubts and ambiguities of Spanish.
^ "Instituto Cervantes 06-07" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 6 January 2012. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
Eurobarometr 2012 Archived 29 April 2013 at the Wayback Machine (page T74): Non native people who speak Spanish very well.
^ "es.ripleybelieves.com". Archived from the original on 15 January 2022. Retrieved 14 January 2022.
^ a b "Real Academia Española" (in Spanish). Buscon.rae.es. Archived from the original on 5 March 2011. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
^ Cervantes.es Archived 21 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine – Instituto Cervantes (2017)
"Academia Venezolana de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Venezuela. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Spanish native speakers worldwide in 2023: an estimate". www.bergesinstitutespanish.com. Retrieved 22 February 2023. Estimate. Corrected as Equatorial Guinea is mistakenly included (no native speakers there)
Batchelor, Ronald Ernest (1992). Using Spanish: a guide to contemporary usage. Cambridge University Press. p. 318. ISBN 0-521-26987-3. Archived from the original on 15 August 2021. Retrieved 28 October 2020.
^ "South America :: Bolivia — The World Factbook – Central Intelligence Agency". www.cia.gov. Archived from the original on 27 September 2021. Retrieved 13 March 2020.
John B. Dabor, Spanish Pronunciation: Theory and Practice (3rd ed.: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1997), Ch. 7
"Census estimate for 2020" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 14 November 2021. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
"El español: Una lengua Viva. Informe 2020" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 February 2020. Retrieved 14 December 2020.
^ Taylor, Paul (4 April 2012). "(2011)". pewhispanic.org. Archived from the original on 9 April 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
517,824,310 speakers L1 and L2 in 2012 (ethnologue "Spanish". Archived from the original on 28 October 2013. Retrieved 10 August 2013.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)) of 7,097,500,000 people in the World in 2012 ([5] Archived 5 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine): 7.3%.
How Many Languages Do We Need?: The Economics of Linguistic Diversity
Crow, John A. (2005). Spain: the root and the flower. University of California Press. p. 151. ISBN 978-0-520-24496-2. Archived from the original on 17 August 2021. Retrieved 28 October 2020.
German census, DE: Destatis, 2020, archived from the original on 28 June 2016
^ Stephen Burgen, US now has more Spanish speakers than Spain – only Mexico has more Archived 23 November 2018 at the Wayback Machine, US News, 29 June 2015.
^ Ethnologue, 18th Ed.: es:Anexo:Hablantes de español según Ethnologue (edición 18).
"PNoy (President Benigno Aquino III) and Spain's Queen Sofia welcome return of Spanish language in Philippine schools"
^ "Census estimate for 2020". HCP. Archived from the original on 20 March 2014.
The following table compares the forms of some common words in several Romance languages:
Stress most often occurs on any of the last three syllables of a word, with some rare exceptions at the fourth-to-last or earlier syllables. Stress tends to occur as follows:[205][better source needed]
Verbs express T-V distinction by using different persons for formal and informal addresses. (For a detailed overview of verbs, see Spanish verbs and Spanish irregular verbs.)
^ "El español: Una lengua Viva. Informe 2020" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 February 2020. Retrieved 14 December 2020.
"Estimate", Pop. clock (SWF), EC: INEC, archived from the original on 5 December 2015, retrieved 5 January 2016
Spanish is the official, or national language in 18 countries and one territory in the Americas, Spain, and Equatorial Guinea. With a population of over 410 million, Hispanophone America accounts for the vast majority of Spanish speakers, of which Mexico is the most populous Spanish-speaking country. In the European Union, Spanish is the mother tongue of 8% of the population, with an additional 7% speaking it as a second language.[206] Additionally, Spanish is the second most spoken language in the United States and is by far the most popular foreign language among students.[207] In 2015, it was estimated that over 50 million Americans spoke Spanish, about 41 million of whom were native speakers.[208] With continued immigration and increased use of the language domestically in public spheres and media, the number of Spanish speakers in the United States is expected to continue growing over the forthcoming decades.[209]
^ "Informes" [Reports]. Census estimate for 2022 (in Spanish). CL: INE. 2022. Archived from the original on 13 January 2022. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
Estimaciones y proyecciones de población 2010–2040: Total del país, INDEC, 2013, archived from the original on 1 October 2018, retrieved 22 February 2015
"Instituto Cervantes 06-07" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 6 January 2012. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
7.2Morphology																								7.2.1Voseo																								7.2.1.1Distribution in Spanish-speaking regions of the Americas																														7.2.2Ustedes																											7.2.3Usted																											7.2.4Third-person object pronouns
^ 517,824,310 speakers L1 and L2 in 2012 (ethnologue "Spanish". Archived from the original on 28 October 2013. Retrieved 10 August 2013.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)) of 7,097,500,000 people in the World in 2012 ([5] Archived 5 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine): 7.3%.
"Academia Costarricense de la Lengua". Costa Rica. Archived from the original on 23 March 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
"American Community Survey Explore Census Data". Archived from the original on 17 October 2021. Retrieved 24 January 2022.
"Racial and Ethnic Diversity in the United States: 2010 Census and 2020 Census". U.S. Census Bureau. 12 August 2021. Archived from the original on 15 August 2021. Retrieved 23 January 2021.
Spanish is also spoken by immigrant communities in other European countries, such as the United Kingdom, France, Italy, and Germany.[32] Spanish is an official language of the European Union.
The Diccionario panhispánico de dudas (a language guide published by the Royal Spanish Academy) states that, although the Royal Spanish Academy prefers to use the term español in its publications when referring to the Spanish language, both terms—español and castellano—are regarded as synonymous and equally valid.[17]
In the 15th and 16th centuries, Spanish underwent a dramatic change in the pronunciation of its sibilant consonants, known in Spanish as the reajuste de las sibilantes, which resulted in the distinctive velar [x] pronunciation of the letter ⟨j⟩ and—in a large part of Spain—the characteristic interdental [θ] ("th-sound") for the letter ⟨z⟩ (and for ⟨c⟩ before ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩). See History of Spanish (Modern development of the Old Spanish sibilants) for details.
This page was last edited on 17 March 2023, at 16:11 (UTC).
Taylor, Paul (4 April 2012). "(2011)". pewhispanic.org. Archived from the original on 9 April 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ Vergaz, Miguel A. (7 November 2010), La RAE avala que Burgos acoge las primeras palabras escritas en castellano (in Spanish), ES: El Mundo, archived from the original on 24 November 2010, retrieved 24 November 2010
Abercrombie, David (1967). Elements of General Phonetics. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press. ISBN 978-0-85224-451-7.
El español en el contexto Sociolingüístico marroquí: Evolución y perspectivas (page 39): Between 4 and 7 million people have Spanish knowledge (M. Ammadi, 2002) Archived 6 November 2013 at the Wayback Machine
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". United Nations. Archived from the original on 16 March 2021. Retrieved 8 January 2022.
"BBC Education — Languages Across Europe — Spanish". Bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 29 September 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
1,816,773 Spanish + 1,200,000 Spanish creole: Quilis, Antonio (1996), La lengua española en Filipinas (PDF), Cervantes virtual, p. 54 and 55, archived (PDF) from the original on 6 August 2009, retrieved 1 December 2009
"Spanish". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 15 January 2013. Retrieved 19 April 2005.
"An increasingly diverse linguistic profile: Corrected data from the 2016 Census". Statistics Canada. 17 August 2017. Archived from the original on 4 May 2018. Retrieved 10 September 2019.
^ "Real Academia Española". Spain: RAE. Archived from the original on 29 September 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
^ "Estimate", Pop. clock (SWF), EC: INEC, archived from the original on 5 December 2015, retrieved 5 January 2016
^ "cvc.cervantes.es (annuary 2006–07)" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 6 January 2012. Retrieved 25 September 2009.
^ "Academia Costarricense de la Lengua". Costa Rica. Archived from the original on 23 March 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
The debuccalization (pronunciation as [h], or loss) of syllable-final /s/ is associated with the southern half of Spain and lowland Americas: Central America (except central Costa Rica and Guatemala), the Caribbean, coastal areas of southern Mexico, and South America except Andean highlands. Debuccalization is frequently called "aspiration" in English, and aspiración in Spanish. When there is no debuccalization, the syllable-final /s/ is pronounced as voiceless "apico-alveolar" sibilant or as a voiceless dental sibilant in the same fashion as in the next paragraph.
According to the 2020 census, over 60 million people of the U.S. population were of Hispanic or Hispanic American by origin.[36] In turn, 41.8 million people in the United States aged five or older speak Spanish at home, or about 13% of the population.[37] The Spanish language has a long history of presence in the United States due to early Spanish and, later, Mexican administration over territories now forming the southwestern states, also Louisiana ruled by Spain from 1762 to 1802, as well as Florida, which was Spanish territory until 1821, and Puerto Rico which was Spanish until 1898.
"Universal Declaration of Human Rights". ohchr.org. Archived from the original on 8 January 2022. Retrieved 8 January 2022.
Carrión, Francisco (20 October 2021). "España se desentiende de la preservación del castellano en los campamentos saharauis". El Independiente. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 19 January 2022.
^ CIA Factbook (19 February 1999). "(2019)". CIA Factbook. Archived from the original on 10 January 2021. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ "Spanish". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 15 January 2013. Retrieved 19 April 2005.
History of Spanish (Modern development of the Old Spanish sibilants)
"cvc.cervantes (Spanish in Australia and New Zealand)" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 16 June 2022. Retrieved 25 May 2022.
"cvc.cervantes.es" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 6 January 2012. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
"Concise Oxford Companion to the English Language". Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 25 September 2008. Retrieved 24 July 2008.
"Más 'speak spanish' que en España". Archived from the original on 20 May 2011. Retrieved 6 October 2007. (in Spanish)
^ IBGE population estimation [IBGE publishes the populational estimates for municipalities in 2 011] (in Portuguese), BR, 2022, archived from the original on 16 November 2015, retrieved 7 January 2016
The Instituto Cervantes (Cervantes Institute) is a worldwide nonprofit organization created by the Spanish government in 1991. This organization has branches in 45 countries, with 88 centers devoted to the Spanish and Hispanic American cultures and Spanish language.[265] The goals of the Institute are to promote universally the education, the study, and the use of Spanish as a second language, to support methods and activities that help the process of Spanish-language education, and to contribute to the advancement of the Spanish and Hispanic American cultures in non-Spanish-speaking countries. The institute's 2015 report "El español, una lengua viva" (Spanish, a living language) estimated that there were 559 million Spanish speakers worldwide. Its latest annual report "El español en el mundo 2018" (Spanish in the world 2018) counts 577 million Spanish speakers worldwide. Among the sources cited in the report is the U.S. Census Bureau, which estimates that the U.S. will have 138 million Spanish speakers by 2050, making it the biggest Spanish-speaking nation on earth, with Spanish the mother tongue of almost a third of its citizens.[266]
As a legacy of comprising the former Spanish East Indies, Spanish loan words are present in the local languages of Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, Marshall Islands and Micronesia.[73][74]
"Census INE estimate for 2022". INE. Archived from the original on 11 October 2010. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
Judaeo-Spanish is in serious danger of extinction because many native speakers today are elderly as well as elderly olim (immigrants to Israel) who have not transmitted the language to their children or grandchildren. However, it is experiencing a minor revival among Sephardi communities, especially in music. In Latin American communities, the danger of extinction is also due to assimilation by modern Spanish.
Spanish intonation varies significantly according to dialect but generally conforms to a pattern of falling tone for declarative sentences and wh-questions (who, what, why, etc.) and rising tone for yes/no questions.[203][204] There are no syntactic markers to distinguish between questions and statements and thus, the recognition of declarative or interrogative depends entirely on intonation.
Areas of generalized voseo include Argentina, Nicaragua, eastern Bolivia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, Paraguay, Uruguay and the Colombian departments of Antioquia, Caldas, Risaralda, Quindio and Valle del Cauca.[216]
Eurobarometr 2012 Archived 29 April 2013 at the Wayback Machine (page TS2): Population older than 15. (age scale used for the Eurobarometer survey)
European SpanishAndalusian SpanishAndalusian language movementCanarian SpanishCastrapo (Galician Spanish)Castúo (Extremaduran Spanish)Murcian Spanish
"Harold Bloom on Don Quixote, the first modern novel | Books | The Guardian"
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x Eurobarometr 2012 Archived 29 April 2013 at the Wayback Machine (page T64): Non native people who speak Spanish well enough in order to be able to have a conversation.
^ Lipski, John (1994). Latin American Spanish (1st ed.). Longman. p. 55: An indisputable influence in the formation of Latin American Spanish, often overshadowed by discussion of the 'Andalusian' contribution, is the Canary Islands.
Eleanor Greet Cotton, John M. Sharp (1988) Spanish in the Americas, Volume 2, pp.154–155, URL Archived 15 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine
Article XIV, Sec 7: "For purposes of communication and instruction, the official languages of the Philippines are Filipino and, until otherwise provided by law, English. The regional languages are the auxiliary official languages in the regions and shall serve as auxiliary media of instruction therein. Spanish and Arabic shall be promoted on a voluntary and optional basis."
^ Lope Blanch, Juan M. (1972) En torno a las vocales caedizas del español mexicano, pp.53 a 73, Estudios sobre el español de México, editorial Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, México URL Archived 5 February 2011 at the Wayback Machine.
^ "Census 2021 estimate". Istat.it. Archived from the original on 7 August 2015. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
Ten Reasons (PDF), ES: Mepsyd, p. 23, archived from the original (PDF) on 25 May 2017
"Real Academia Española". Spain: RAE. Archived from the original on 29 September 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
^ Thomas, Hugh (2005). Rivers of Gold: the rise of the Spanish empire, from Columbus to Magellan. Random House Inc. p. 78. ISBN 978-0-8129-7055-5. Archived from the original on 16 August 2021. Retrieved 28 October 2020.
^ "Academia Venezolana de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Venezuela. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Spanish is one of the official languages of the United Nations, the European Union, the World Trade Organization, the Organization of American States, the Organization of Ibero-American States, the African Union, the Union of South American Nations, the Antarctic Treaty Secretariat, the Latin Union, the Caricom, the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Inter-American Development Bank, and numerous other international organizations.
"Guatemala: Estimaciones y proyecciones de población a largo plazo 1950-2050". www.oj.gob.gt (in Spanish). Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Archived (PDF) from the original on 23 July 2018.
when the word ends in a diphthong, on the final syllable.
Spanish speakers older than 5 years old (Table, US: Census Bureau, 2021, archived from the original on 4 March 2021, retrieved 4 November 2022)
^ According to Ethnologue (see "Argentina". Ethnologue), there were 40,3 million speakers Spanish as mother tongue in 2013. The Argentinian population in 2013 was projected to be 42,2 million.[92]
"Census estimate for 2020". Stats.gov.cn. Archived from the original on 11 May 2021. Retrieved 14 January 2022.
^ a b *World Population Prospects, EU, archived from the original on 10 May 2015Eurobarometer (PDF), 2012, archived (PDF) from the original on 29 April 2013, retrieved 12 April 2013, Page TS2: Population older than 15 years old of each country. page T74: Speakers who speak Spanish very well. Page T46: Speakers who speak well enough in order to be able to have a conversation.
"Census INE estimate for 2022". Archived from the original on 13 January 2022. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
Spanish in belize (Report) (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 4 December 2015. Retrieved 3 February 2022.
^ Batchelor, Ronald Ernest (1992). Using Spanish: a guide to contemporary usage. Cambridge University Press. p. 318. ISBN 0-521-26987-3. Archived from the original on 15 August 2021. Retrieved 28 October 2020.
Eberhard, David M.; Simons, Gary F.; Fennig, Charles D. (2020). Ethnologue: Languages of the World (23rd ed.). Dallas, Texas: SIL International. Archived from the original on 6 April 2006. Retrieved 22 June 2002.
"Real Academia Española" (in Spanish). Buscon.rae.es. Archived from the original on 5 March 2011. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
1973 Constitution of the Republic of the Philippines, The corpus juris, Article XV, Section 3(3), archived from the original on 17 April 2008, retrieved 6 April 2008
(US. Census Bureau 2017 Archived 24 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine)
World wide Spanish language, Sispain, archived from the original on 4 March 2016, retrieved 11 October 2012
^ Lapesa, Raphael (1960). Historia de la lengua española. Madrid. p. 97. ISBN 978-0-520-05469-1. Archived from the original on 23 December 2016. Retrieved 23 October 2016.
"The Philippines is fronting up to its Spanish heritage, and for some it's paying off"
Spanish is classified as a subject–verb–object language; however, as in most Romance languages, constituent order is highly variable and governed mainly by topicalization and focus rather than by syntax. It is a "pro-drop", or "null-subject" language—that is, it allows the deletion of subject pronouns when they are pragmatically unnecessary. Spanish is described as a "verb-framed" language, meaning that the direction of motion is expressed in the verb while the mode of locomotion is expressed adverbially (e.g. subir corriendo or salir volando; the respective English equivalents of these examples—'to run up' and 'to fly out'—show that English is, by contrast, "satellite-framed", with mode of locomotion expressed in the verb and direction in an adverbial modifier).
^ "US now has more Spanish speakers than Spain – only Mexico has more". The Guardian. 29 June 2015. Archived from the original on 23 November 2018. Retrieved 24 January 2021.
"Census 2021 estimate". Istat.it. Archived from the original on 7 August 2015. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin; Bank, Sebastian, eds. (2022). "Castilic". Glottolog 4.6. Jena, Germany: Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. Archived from the original on 28 May 2022. Retrieved 19 June 2022.
^ "Información sobre el Instituto Cervantes. Quiénes somos: qué es el Instituto Cervantes". www.cervantes.es. Archived from the original on 10 April 2019. Retrieved 22 March 2022.
review of Humberto López Morales, Estudios sobre el español de Cuba
^ a b Dworkin, Steven N. (2012). A History of the Spanish Lexicon: A Linguistic Perspective. Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 83. ISBN 978-0-19-954114-0. Archived from the original on 15 September 2015. Retrieved 17 June 2015.,Macpherson, I. R. (1980). Spanish phonology. Manchester: Manchester University Press. p. 93. ISBN 0-7190-0788-7. Archived from the original on 23 December 2016. Retrieved 23 October 2016.,Martínez Egido, José Joaquín (2007). Constitución del léxico español. p. 15. ISBN 978-84-9822-653-9. Archived from the original on 26 June 2014. Retrieved 23 October 2016.
"International Programs – People and Households – U.S. Census Bureau". Census.gov. 5 January 2016. Archived from the original on 19 August 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
^ Ocampo, Ambeth (4 December 2007). "The loss of Spanish". Makati City, Philippines: Philippine Daily Inquirer (INQUIRER.net). Opinion. Archived from the original on 11 March 2012. Retrieved 26 July 2010.
^ a b El español en el mundo [Spanish in the world] (PDF), ES: Instituto Cervantes, 2012, p. 6, archived from the original (PDF) on 17 October 2012
^ "ins.ci Census, 2009". Archived from the original on 13 January 2012. Retrieved 20 April 2016.
^ 1973 Constitution of the Republic of the Philippines, The corpus juris, Article XV, Section 3(3), archived from the original on 17 April 2008, retrieved 6 April 2008
*World Population Prospects, EU, archived from the original on 10 May 2015Eurobarometer (PDF), 2012, archived (PDF) from the original on 29 April 2013, retrieved 12 April 2013, Page TS2: Population older than 15 years old of each country. page T74: Speakers who speak Spanish very well. Page T46: Speakers who speak well enough in order to be able to have a conversation.
^ "Census estimate for 2022". Archived from the original on 2 January 2022. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
"Academia Salvadoreña de la Lengua". El Salvador. Archived from the original on 4 September 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Rivers of Gold: the rise of the Spanish empire, from Columbus to Magellan
"Brazilian Law 11.161". Presidência da República. 5 August 2005. Archived from the original on 31 October 2013. Retrieved 31 March 2014.
"A Brief Guide to Regional Variation of the Forms of Address (Tú, Vos, Usted) in Spanish"
"INSEE estimate to 2021". Insee.fr. Archived from the original on 5 November 2016. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
Thomas, Hugh (2005). Rivers of Gold: the rise of the Spanish empire, from Columbus to Magellan. Random House Inc. p. 78. ISBN 978-0-8129-7055-5. Archived from the original on 16 August 2021. Retrieved 28 October 2020.
"Europeans and their Languages" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 January 2016. Retrieved 2 January 2013.
^ Salvador, Yolanda Mancebo (2002). "Hacia una historia de la puesta en escena de La vida es sueño". Calderón en Europa (in Spanish). Vervuert Verlagsgesellschaft. pp. 91–100. doi:10.31819/9783964565013-007. ISBN 978-3-96456-501-3. Archived from the original on 3 March 2022. Retrieved 3 March 2022.
^ "South America :: Paraguay — The World Factbook – Central Intelligence Agency". www.cia.gov. Archived from the original on 31 December 2018. Retrieved 18 March 2020.
Lipski, John M. (2014). "¿Existe un dialecto "ecuatoguineano" del español?". Revista Iberoamericana. 80 (248–249): 865–882. doi:10.5195/REVIBEROAMER.2014.7202. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 19 January 2022.
List of countries where Spanish is an official language § International organizations
Quispe Fernández, Ezio (2022). "Cifras" [Numbers] (PDF) (in Spanish). PE: INEI. Archived from the original (PDF) on 10 October 2017.
Vergaz, Miguel A. (7 November 2010), La RAE avala que Burgos acoge las primeras palabras escritas en castellano (in Spanish), ES: El Mundo, archived from the original on 24 November 2010, retrieved 24 November 2010
It is generally acknowledged that Portuguese and Spanish speakers can communicate in written form, with varying degrees of mutual intelligibility.[221][222][223][224] Mutual intelligibility of the written Spanish and Portuguese languages is remarkably high, and the at times variance of the spoken forms are based more on the phonology than on grammatical and lexical usage. Ethnologue gives estimates of the lexical similarity between related languages in terms of precise percentages. For Spanish and Portuguese, that figure is 89%. Italian, on the other hand is phonologically similar to Spanish, but has a lower lexical and grammatical similarity of 82%. Mutual intelligibility between Spanish and French or between Spanish and Romanian is lower still, given lexical similarity ratings of 75% and 71% respectively.[225][226] Comprehension of Spanish by French speakers who have not studied the language is much lower, at an estimated 45%. In general, thanks to the common features of the writing systems of the Romance languages, interlingual comprehension of the written word is greater than that of oral communication.
Bituga-Nchama, Pedro Bayeme; Nvé-Ndumu, Cruz Otu (2021). "The decline of the indigenous languages of Equatorial Guinea: a manifestation of the loss of cultural identity". Revista Cátedra. 4 (3): 41. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 19 January 2022.
^ "Por qué Filipinas no es un país hispanoparlante si fue una colonia de España durante 300 años (y qué huellas quedan de la lengua de Cervantes)". BBC News Mundo (in Spanish). 30 January 2021. Archived from the original on 30 January 2021. Retrieved 31 January 2021.
^ cvc.cervantes.es Archived 27 December 2021 at the Wayback Machine. There are 13,7%proficient Spanish speakers and 74% as a second language
The Spanish Constitution of 1978 uses the term castellano to define the official language of the whole Spanish State, in contrast to las demás lenguas españolas (lit. "the other Spanish languages"). Article III reads as follows:
^ Constitución Política del Perú Archived 17 May 2014 at the Wayback Machine, Article 48
^ "Census INE estimate for 2022". INE. Archived from the original on 11 October 2010. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
"US now has more Spanish speakers than Spain – only Mexico has more". The Guardian. 29 June 2015. Archived from the original on 23 November 2018. Retrieved 24 January 2021.
^ "Academia Nicaragüense de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Nicaragua. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Tuteo exists as the second-person usage with an intermediate degree of formality alongside the more familiar voseo in Chile, in the Venezuelan state of Zulia, on the Caribbean coast of Colombia, in the Azuero Peninsula in Panama, in the Mexican state of Chiapas, and in parts of Guatemala.
"Academia Chilena de la Lengua". Chile. Archived from the original on 5 September 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
^ "Background Note: Andorra". U.S. Department of State: Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs. January 2007. Archived from the original on 22 January 2017. Retrieved 20 August 2007.
^ "International Programs – People and Households – U.S. Census Bureau". Census.gov. 5 January 2016. Archived from the original on 19 August 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
Eurobarometer (PDF), 2012, archived (PDF) from the original on 29 April 2013, retrieved 12 April 2013, Page TS2: Population older than 15 years old of each country. page T74: Speakers who speak Spanish very well. Page T46: Speakers who speak well enough in order to be able to have a conversation.
^ Weedon, Alan (9 August 2019). "The Philippines is fronting up to its Spanish heritage, and for some it's paying off". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on 12 December 2021. Retrieved 18 January 2022.
In Spain, northern dialects are popularly thought of as closer to the standard, although positive attitudes toward southern dialects have increased significantly in the last 50 years. The speech from the educated classes of Madrid is the standard variety for use on radio and television in Spain and it is indicated by many as the one that has most influenced the written standard for Spanish.[212] Central (European) Spanish speech patterns have been noted to be in the process of merging with more innovative southern varieties (including Eastern Andalusian and Murcian), as an emerging interdialectal levelled koine buffered between the Madrid's traditional national standard and the Seville speech trends.[213]
"Racial and Ethnic Diversity in the United States: 2010 Census and 2020 Census"
The Royal Spanish Academy (Spanish: Real Academia Española), founded in 1713,[239] together with the 21 other national ones (see Association of Spanish Language Academies), exercises a standardizing influence through its publication of dictionaries and widely respected grammar and style guides.[240]Because of influence and for other sociohistorical reasons, a standardized form of the language (Standard Spanish) is widely acknowledged for use in literature, academic contexts and the media.
The orthographic system unambiguously reflects where the stress occurs: in the absence of an accent mark, the stress falls on the last syllable unless the last letter is ⟨n⟩, ⟨s⟩, or a vowel, in which cases the stress falls on the next-to-last (penultimate) syllable. Exceptions to those rules are indicated by an acute accent mark over the vowel of the stressed syllable. (See Spanish orthography.)
Mojarro, Jorge (6 October 2020). "Spanish is an endangered Filipino language". The Manila Times. Archived from the original on 18 January 2022. Retrieved 18 January 2022.
Cervantes.es Archived 21 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine – Instituto Cervantes (2017)
^ "Exclusión de ch y ll del abecedario | Real Academia Española". www.rae.es. Archived from the original on 28 April 2020. Retrieved 1 April 2020.
^ "UN 2011 to 2100 estimate" (MS Excel PDF). UN Population data. Archived from the original on 10 May 2015. Retrieved 7 February 2018.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: others (link)
The Association of Spanish Language Academies (Asociación de Academias de la Lengua Española, or ASALE) is the entity which regulates the Spanish language. It was created in Mexico in 1951 and represents the union of all the separate academies in the Spanish-speaking world. It comprises the academies of 23 countries, ordered by date of academy foundation: Spain (1713),[242] Colombia (1871),[243] Ecuador (1874),[244] Mexico (1875),[245] El Salvador (1876),[246] Venezuela (1883),[247] Chile (1885),[248] Peru (1887),[249] Guatemala (1887),[250] Costa Rica (1923),[251] Philippines (1924),[252] Panama (1926),[253] Cuba (1926),[254]Paraguay (1927),[255] Dominican Republic (1927),[256] Bolivia (1927),[257] Nicaragua (1928),[258] Argentina (1931),[259] Uruguay (1943),[260] Honduras (1949),[261] Puerto Rico (1955),[262] United States (1973)[263] and Equatorial Guinea (2016).[264]
^ "Europeans and their Languages" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 January 2016. Retrieved 2 January 2013.
Interrogative and exclamatory clauses are introduced with inverted question and exclamation marks (¿ and ¡, respectively) and closed by the usual question and exclamation marks.
When u is written between g and a front vowel e or i, it indicates a "hard g" pronunciation. A diaeresis ü indicates that it is not silent as it normally would be (e.g., cigüeña, 'stork', is pronounced [θiˈɣweɲa]; if it were written *cigueña, it would be pronounced *[θiˈɣeɲa]).
^ Katia Salamanca de Abreu, review of Humberto López Morales, Estudios sobre el español de Cuba Archived 21 December 2012 at the Wayback Machine (New York: Editorial Las Américas, 1970), in Thesaurus, 28 (1973), 138–146.
^ Often considered to be a substratum word. Other theories suggest, on the basis of what is used to make cheese, a derivation from Latin brandeum (originally meaning a linen covering, later a thin cloth for relic storage) through an intermediate root *brandea. For the development of the meaning, cf. Spanish manteca, Portuguese manteiga, probably from Latin mantica ('sack'), Italian formaggio and French fromage from formaticus. Romanian Explanatory Dictionary Archived 18 February 2020 at the Wayback Machine
"Academia Mexicana de la Lengua". Mexico. 22 September 2010. Archived from the original on 15 September 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
El castellano es la lengua española oficial del Estado. ... Las demás lenguas españolas serán también oficiales en las respectivas Comunidades Autónomas...
^ "Academia Salvadoreña de la Lengua". El Salvador. Archived from the original on 4 September 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Mario A. Pei (1949) A New Methodology for Romance Classification, WORD, 5:2, 135-146, doi:10.1080/00437956.1949.11659494
^ Medium projection, PH: National Statistics Office, 2015, archived from the original on 3 April 2019, retrieved 8 June 2013
"El Español en los Campamentos de Refugiados Saharauis (Tinduf, Algeria)"
"Official Languages | United Nations". United Nations. Archived from the original on 17 October 2015. Retrieved 19 November 2015.
Hualde, José Ignacio (2014). Los sonidos del español. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-16823-6. Archived from the original on 10 December 2020. Retrieved 28 October 2020.
^ Bituga-Nchama, Pedro Bayeme; Nvé-Ndumu, Cruz Otu (2021). "The decline of the indigenous languages of Equatorial Guinea: a manifestation of the loss of cultural identity". Revista Cátedra. 4 (3): 41. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 19 January 2022.
"Como saharauis queremos conservar el español" (in Spanish). 3 March 2008. Archived from the original on 9 March 2016. Retrieved 15 March 2015.
"Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 6 July 2016. Retrieved 3 February 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
Martos, Isabel. "Linguistic Policy in the Camps of Sahrawi Refugees". researchgate. Universidad de Alcalá. Archived from the original on 22 May 2021. Retrieved 19 August 2018.
"Academia Ecuatoguineana de la Lengua Española". Equatorial Guinea. Archived from the original on 31 March 2016. Retrieved 5 February 2016.
Devlin, Thomas Moore (30 January 2019). "What Are The Most-Used Languages On The Internet?". +Babbel Magazine. Archived from the original on 6 December 2021. Retrieved 13 July 2021.
^ "La lengua de Cervantes" (PDF) (in Spanish). Ministerio de la Presidencia de España. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 October 2008. Retrieved 24 August 2008. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ "Association of Spanish Language Academies" (in Spanish). Asale. Archived from the original on 23 September 2010. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ "INE (Pop clock)". Archived from the original on 19 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ The figure of 2 900 000 Spanish speakers is in Thompson, RW, Pluricentric languages: differing norms in different nations, p. 45
"Academia Nicaragüense de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Nicaragua. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Although vos is not used in Spain, it occurs in many Spanish-speaking regions of the Americas as the primary spoken form of the second-person singular familiar pronoun, with wide differences in social consideration.[219][better source needed] Generally, it can be said that there are zones of exclusive use of tuteo (the use of tú) in the following areas: almost all of Mexico, the West Indies, Panama, most of Colombia, Peru, Venezuela and coastal Ecuador.
Ladefoged, Peter; Johnson, Keith (2010), A Course in Phonetics (6th ed.), Boston, Massachusetts: Wadsworth Publishing, ISBN 978-1-4282-3126-9, archived from the original on 24 March 2019, retrieved 17 June 2015
"Por qué Filipinas no es un país hispanoparlante si fue una colonia de España durante 300 años (y qué huellas quedan de la lengua de Cervantes)"
^ "2011 Census". Censusdata.abs.gov.au. Archived from the original on 3 April 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ "Jamaican Population". Statinja.gov.jm. Archived from the original on 6 October 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
www.abc.com.py Archived 13 January 2022 at the Wayback Machine According to DGEEC Census 2012, 7.93% is monolingual of Guarani.
^ "Brazilian Law 11.161". Presidência da República. 5 August 2005. Archived from the original on 31 October 2013. Retrieved 31 March 2014.
^ "Academia Nacional de Letras del Uruguay". Uruguay. Archived from the original on 19 March 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
"South America :: Paraguay — The World Factbook – Central Intelligence Agency"
"Academia Colombiana de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Colombia. Archived from the original on 19 February 2008. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ Gonzalez, Ana (13 August 2013). "(2011)". pewresearch.org. Archived from the original on 27 March 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
"El español se atasca como lengua científica". Servicio de Información y Noticias Científicas (in Spanish). 5 March 2014. Archived from the original on 22 February 2019. Retrieved 29 January 2019.
^ "American Community Survey Explore Census Data". Archived from the original on 17 October 2021. Retrieved 24 January 2022.
exteriores.gob.es Archived 24 January 2022 at the Wayback Machine. 2.3% Spanish speakers as a native language according to 2018 census.
Quilis and Casado-Fresnillo, 1995, pp. 27-35; cfr Bituga-Nchama & Nvé-Ndumu 2021, p. 41
^ "cvc.cervantes (Spanish in Australia and New Zealand)" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 16 June 2022. Retrieved 25 May 2022.
There are 14,100 people who speak other language as their mother tongue (main language, Kekchí with 12,300 speakers): Ethnologue Archived 7 February 2016 at the Wayback Machine.
"cvc.cervantes.es (annuary 2006–07)" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 6 January 2012. Retrieved 25 September 2009.
^ 426,515,910 speakers L1 in 2012 (ethnologue "Spanish". Archived from the original on 28 October 2013. Retrieved 10 August 2013.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)) of 7,097,500,000 people in the World in 2012 ([4] Archived 5 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine): 6%.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa ab ac ad ae af ag ah ai aj ak al am an ao ap Eurobarometr 2012 Archived 29 April 2013 at the Wayback Machine (page TS2): Population older than 15. (age scale used for the Eurobarometer survey)
^ "Academia Chilena de la Lengua". Chile. Archived from the original on 5 September 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
In Spain and in some other parts of the Spanish-speaking world, Spanish is called not only español but also castellano (Castilian), the language from the Kingdom of Castile, contrasting it with other languages spoken in Spain such as Galician, Basque, Asturian, Catalan, Aragonese and Occitan.
Anuario del Instituto Cervantes 2020 (page 325). "Germany and their Spanish speakers"
Penny, Ralph (1991). A History of the Spanish Language. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-39784-7. Archived from the original on 14 August 2021. Retrieved 28 October 2020.
Spanish is written in the Latin script, with the addition of the character ⟨ñ⟩ (eñe, representing the phoneme /ɲ/, a letter distinct from ⟨n⟩, although typographically composed of an ⟨n⟩ with a tilde). Formerly the digraphs ⟨ch⟩ (che, representing the phoneme /t͡ʃ/) and ⟨ll⟩ (elle, representing the phoneme /ʎ/ or /ʝ/), were also considered single letters. However, the digraph ⟨rr⟩ (erre fuerte, 'strong r', erre doble, 'double r', or simply erre), which also represents a distinct phoneme /r/, was not similarly regarded as a single letter. Since 1994 ⟨ch⟩ and ⟨ll⟩ have been treated as letter pairs for collation purposes, though they remained a part of the alphabet until 2010. Words with ⟨ch⟩ are now alphabetically sorted between those with ⟨cg⟩ and ⟨ci⟩, instead of following ⟨cz⟩ as they used to. The situation is similar for ⟨ll⟩.[236][237]
Virtually all dialects of Spanish make the distinction between a formal and a familiar register in the second-person singular and thus have two different pronouns meaning "you": usted in the formal and either tú or vos in the familiar (and each of these three pronouns has its associated verb forms), with the choice of tú or vos varying from one dialect to another. The use of vos (and/or its verb forms) is called voseo. In a few dialects, all three pronouns are used, with usted, tú, and vos denoting respectively formality, familiarity, and intimacy.[216]
Aside from standard Spanish, a Spanish-based creole language called Chavacano developed in the southern Philippines. However, it is not mutually intelligible with Spanish.[69] The number of Chavacano-speakers was estimated at 1.2 million in 1996.[70] The local languages of the Philippines also retain significant Spanish influence, with many words derived from Mexican Spanish, owing to the administration of the islands by Spain through New Spain until 1821, until direct governance from Madrid afterwards to 1898.[71][72]
^ "Academia Peruana de la Lengua". Peru. Archived from the original on 12 October 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
Nestor Diaz: More than 2 million Spanish speakers and around 3 million with Chavacano speakers (24 April 2010). "FILIPINAS / Vigoroso regreso del español". Aresprensa.com. Archived from the original on 23 December 2008. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
Usted is the usual second-person singular pronoun in a formal context, but it is used jointly with the third-person singular voice of the verb. It is used to convey respect toward someone who is a generation older or is of higher authority ("you, sir"/"you, ma'am"). It is also used in a familiar context by many speakers in Colombia and Costa Rica and in parts of Ecuador and Panama, to the exclusion of tú or vos. This usage is sometimes called ustedeo in Spanish.
"cartularioshistoria". www.euskonews.com. Archived from the original on 2 April 2016. Retrieved 22 September 2016.
"El Español en los Campamentos de Refugiados Saharauis (Tinduf, Algeria)" (PDF). Cvc.cervantes.es. Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 December 2016. Retrieved 20 May 2015.
"Presidential Decree No. 155 : PHILIPPINE LAWS, STATUTES and CODES : CHAN ROBLES VIRTUAL LAW LIBRARY"
Jensen, John B. (1989). "On the Mutual Intelligibility of Spanish and Portuguese". Hispania. 72 (4): 848–852. doi:10.2307/343562. JSTOR 343562.
"ins.ci Census, 2009". Archived from the original on 13 January 2012. Retrieved 20 April 2016.
^ Nestor Diaz: More than 2 million Spanish speakers and around 3 million with Chavacano speakers (24 April 2010). "FILIPINAS / Vigoroso regreso del español". Aresprensa.com. Archived from the original on 23 December 2008. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
Spanish is also spoken in the integral territories of Spain in Africa, namely the cities of Ceuta and Melilla and the Canary Islands, located in the Atlantic Ocean some 100 km (62 mi) off the northwest of the African mainland. The Spanish spoken in the Canary Islands, traces its origins back to the Castilian conquest in the 15th century, and, in addition to a resemblance to Western Andalusian speech patterns, it also features strong influence from the Spanish varieties spoken in the Americas,[53] which in turn have also been influenced historically by Canarian Spanish.[54]
According to Ethnologue (see "Argentina". Ethnologue), there were 40,3 million speakers Spanish as mother tongue in 2013. The Argentinian population in 2013 was projected to be 42,2 million.[92]
"Academia Norteamericana de la Lengua Española". United States. Archived from the original on 12 February 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
The use of the pronoun vos with the verb forms of tú (vos piensas) is called "pronominal voseo". Conversely, the use of the verb forms of vos with the pronoun tú (tú pensás or tú pensái) is called "verbal voseo".In Chile, for example, verbal voseo is much more common than the actual use of the pronoun vos, which is usually reserved for highly informal situations.
Demografía de la lengua española (PDF) (in Spanish), ES, p. 10, archived (PDF) from the original on 23 September 2010, retrieved 23 February 2010, to countries with official Spanish status.
^ Carrión, Francisco (20 October 2021). "España se desentiende de la preservación del castellano en los campamentos saharauis". El Independiente. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 19 January 2022.
^ "educacionbogota.edu.co". Archived from the original on 13 January 2022. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
^ "español, la". Diccionario de la lengua española. Real Academia Espańola. Archived from the original on 24 April 2017. Retrieved 13 July 2021.
^ Comparán Rizo, Juan José. Raices Griegas y latinas (in Spanish). Ediciones Umbral. p. 17. ISBN 978-968-5430-01-2. Archived from the original on 23 April 2017. Retrieved 22 August 2017.
^ "cartularioshistoria". www.euskonews.com. Archived from the original on 2 April 2016. Retrieved 22 September 2016.
^ Bureau, US Census. "Language Projections: 2010 to 2020". The United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on 19 August 2019. Retrieved 19 August 2019.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa ab ac ad ae af ag ah ai aj ak al am an ao ap
^ Spanish in belize (Report) (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 4 December 2015. Retrieved 3 February 2022.
Some consonant clusters of Latin also produced characteristically different results in these languages, as shown in the examples in the following table:
"Census estimate for 2020". HCP. Archived from the original on 20 March 2014.
Statistik, Bundesamt für. "Bevölkerung". www.bfs.admin.ch. Archived from the original on 14 January 2016.
^ "Scholarly Societies Project". Lib.uwaterloo.ca. Archived from the original on 23 September 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
"An increasingly diverse linguistic profile: Corrected data from the 2016 Census"
^ "John B. Dalbor's Voice Files to Accompany Spanish Pronunciation". Auburn.edu. Archived from the original on 8 March 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
"Academia Cubana de la Lengua". Cuba. Archived from the original on 19 December 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
^ John B. Dabor, Spanish Pronunciation: Theory and Practice (3rd ed.: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1997), Ch. 7
^ Native command group (GDL): 266,955 non-nationalized Spanish-speaking immigrants, 63,752 nationalized Spanish-speaking immigrants, 44,500 Spanish speakers of children of immigrants (second generation).375,207 total native speakers, but there are another 37,047 non mother tongue speakers with native skills. Anuario del Instituto Cervantes 2020 (page 325). "Germany and their Spanish speakers" Archived 18 February 2020 at the Wayback Machine
^ Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin; Bank, Sebastian, eds. (2022). "Castilic". Glottolog 4.6. Jena, Germany: Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. Archived from the original on 28 May 2022. Retrieved 19 June 2022.
In Western Sahara, formerly Spanish Sahara, a primarily Hassaniya Arabic-speaking territory, Spanish was officially spoken as the language of the colonial administration during the late 19th and 20th centuries. Today, Spanish is present in the partially-recognized Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic and in the Sahrawi refugee camps in Tindouf (Algeria), where the Spanish language is still taught as a second language, largely by Cuban educators.[56][57][58] The number of Spanish speakers is unknown.[failed verification][59][60]
"Informes" [Reports]. Census estimate for 2022 (in Spanish). CL: INE. 2022. Archived from the original on 13 January 2022. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
"es.ripleybelieves.com". Archived from the original on 15 January 2022. Retrieved 14 January 2022.
The letters k and w are used only in words and names coming from foreign languages (kilo, folklore, whisky, kiwi, etc.).
Rice, John (2010). "sejours linguistiques en Espagne". sejours-linguistiques-en-espagne.com. Archived from the original on 18 January 2013. Retrieved 3 March 2022.
Spanish is also an official language of the African Union.
Roots of Creole Structures: Weighing the Contribution of Substrates and Superstrates
^ 40,872,286 people is the census population result for 2010[92]
Spanish is part of the Ibero-Romance group of languages, which evolved from several dialects of Vulgar Latin in Iberia after the collapse of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century. The oldest Latin texts with traces of Spanish come from mid-northern Iberia in the 9th century,[8] and the first systematic written use of the language happened in Toledo, a prominent city of the Kingdom of Castile, in the 13th century. Spanish colonialism in the early modern period spurred on the introduction of the language to overseas locations, most notably to the Americas.[9]
1. In Romance etymology, Latin terms are given in the Accusative since most forms derive from this case.2. As in "us very selves", an emphatic expression.3. Also nós outros in early modern Portuguese (e.g. The Lusiads), and nosoutros in Galician.4. Alternatively nous autres in French.5. noialtri in many Southern Italian dialects and languages.6. Medieval Catalan (e.g. Llibre dels fets).7. Modified with the learned suffix -ción.8. Depending on the written norm used (see Reintegrationism).9. From Basque esku, "hand" + erdi, "half, incomplete". Notice that this negative meaning also applies for Latin sinistra(m) ("dark, unfortunate").10. Romanian caș (from Latin cāsevs) means a type of cheese. The universal term for cheese in Romanian is brânză (from unknown etymology).[234]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa ab ac ad ae af ag ah ai aj ak al am an ao ap aq ar as at au av aw ax ay az ba bb bc bd be bf bg bh bi bj bk bl bm bn bo
^ "Academia Ecuatoguineana de la Lengua Española". Equatorial Guinea. Archived from the original on 31 March 2016. Retrieved 5 February 2016.
^ www.state.gov Archived 4 June 2019 at the Wayback Machine. 2015 estimate
^ a b Spanish in Belize. 52.1% speak Spanish with very well level. 10.7% speak Spanish with intermediate level (PDF) (Report) (in Spanish). 2000. Archived (PDF) from the original on 3 February 2022. Retrieved 3 February 2022.
^ "Annual Mid year Population Estimates: 2020". U.K. Gov. Census. 2020. Archived from the original on 15 May 2016.
El español en Namibia, 2005. Archived 2 March 2013 at the Wayback Machine Instituto Cervantes.
Pages using collapsible list with both background and text-align in titlestyle
The Spanish phonological system evolved from that of Vulgar Latin. Its development exhibits some traits in common with other Western Romance languages, others with the neighboring Hispanic varieties—especially Leonese and Aragonese—as well as other features unique to Spanish. Spanish is alone among its immediate neighbors in having undergone frequent aspiration and eventual loss of the Latin initial /f/ sound (e.g. Cast. harina vs. Leon. and Arag. farina).[198] The Latin initial consonant sequences pl-, cl-, and fl- in Spanish typically merge as ll- (originally pronounced [ʎ]), while in Aragonese they are preserved in most dialects, and in Leonese they present a variety of outcomes, including [tʃ], [ʃ], and [ʎ]. Where Latin had -li- before a vowel (e.g. filius) or the ending -iculus, -icula (e.g. auricula), Old Spanish produced [ʒ], that in Modern Spanish became the velar fricative [x] (hijo, oreja), whereas neighboring languages have the palatal lateral [ʎ] (e.g. Portuguese filho, orelha; Catalan fill, orella).
^ "Similar languages to Spanish". EZGlot. Archived from the original on 21 June 2017. Retrieved 24 June 2017.
Most speakers use (and the Real Academia Española prefers) the pronouns lo and la for direct objects (masculine and feminine respectively, regardless of animacy, meaning "him", "her", or "it"), and le for indirect objects (regardless of gender or animacy, meaning "to him", "to her", or "to it"). The usage is sometimes called "etymological", as these direct and indirect object pronouns are a continuation, respectively, of the accusative and dative pronouns of Latin, the ancestor language of Spanish.
From the 16th century onwards, the language was taken to the Spanish-discovered America and the Spanish East Indies via Spanish colonization of America. Miguel de Cervantes, author of Don Quixote, is such a well-known reference in the world that Spanish is often called la lengua de Cervantes ("the language of Cervantes").[27]
Salvador, Yolanda Mancebo (2002). "Hacia una historia de la puesta en escena de La vida es sueño". Calderón en Europa (in Spanish). Vervuert Verlagsgesellschaft. pp. 91–100. doi:10.31819/9783964565013-007. ISBN 978-3-96456-501-3. Archived from the original on 3 March 2022. Retrieved 3 March 2022.
^ exteriores.gob.es Archived 24 January 2022 at the Wayback Machine. 2.3% Spanish speakers as a native language according to 2018 census.
Los cubanos, la élite de Sudán del Sur (in Spanish), FR: Radio France International, 6 July 2011, archived from the original on 12 January 2012, retrieved 20 December 2011
"Eurostat (1/1/2012 estimate)". Epp.eurostat.ec.europa.eu. 17 October 2013. Archived from the original on 20 July 2011. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
Population by age, both sexes, annual; estimate for 2012, UN, archived from the original (XLS) on 15 January 2013, retrieved 11 March 2012
"Academia Paraguaya de la Lengua Española". Paraguay. Archived from the original on 28 July 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
The Spanish consonant system is characterized by (1) three nasal phonemes, and one or two (depending on the dialect) lateral phoneme(s), which in syllable-final position lose their contrast and are subject to assimilation to a following consonant; (2) three voiceless stops and the affricate /tʃ/; (3) three or four (depending on the dialect) voiceless fricatives; (4) a set of voiced obstruents—/b/, /d/, /ɡ/, and sometimes /ʝ/—which alternate between approximant and plosive allophones depending on the environment; and (5) a phonemic distinction between the "tapped" and "trilled" r-sounds (single ⟨r⟩ and double ⟨rr⟩ in orthography).
Philippines, Spanish differences, archived from the original on 21 December 2012
Katia Salamanca de Abreu, review of Humberto López Morales, Estudios sobre el español de Cuba Archived 21 December 2012 at the Wayback Machine (New York: Editorial Las Américas, 1970), in Thesaurus, 28 (1973), 138–146.
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 6 July 2016. Retrieved 3 February 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
Like the other Romance languages, the Spanish language evolved from Vulgar Latin, which was brought to the Iberian Peninsula by the Romans during the Second Punic War, beginning in 210 BC. Several pre-Roman languages (also called Paleohispanic languages)—some distantly related to Latin as Indo-European languages, and some that are not related at all—were previously spoken in the Iberian Peninsula. These languages included Proto-Basque, Iberian, Lusitanian, Celtiberian and Gallaecian.
The main morphological variations between dialects of Spanish involve differing uses of pronouns, especially those of the second person and, to a lesser extent, the object pronouns of the third person.
Crawford, John (1992). Language loyalties: a source book on the official English controversy. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. p. 62.
"Por qué Filipinas no es un país hispanoparlante si fue una colonia de España durante 300 años (y qué huellas quedan de la lengua de Cervantes)". BBC News Mundo (in Spanish). 30 January 2021. Archived from the original on 30 January 2021. Retrieved 31 January 2021.
Eurobarometr 2012 Archived 29 April 2013 at the Wayback Machine (page T40): Native speakers.
The verb forms of general voseo are the same as those used with tú except in the present tense (indicative and imperative) verbs. The forms for vos generally can be derived from those of vosotros (the traditional second-person familiar plural) by deleting the glide [i̯], or /d/, where it appears in the ending: vosotros pensáis > vos pensás; vosotros volvéis > vos volvés, pensad! (vosotros) > pensá! (vos), volved! (vosotros) > volvé! (vos).[217]
Spanish in Belize. 52.1% speak Spanish with very well level. 10.7% speak Spanish with intermediate level (PDF) (Report) (in Spanish). 2000. Archived (PDF) from the original on 3 February 2022. Retrieved 3 February 2022.
^ Charles B. Chang, "Variation in palatal production in Buenos Aires Spanish" Archived 4 October 2013 at the Wayback Machine. Selected Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Spanish Sociolinguistics, ed. Maurice Westmoreland and Juan Antonio Thomas, 54–63. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project, 2008.
^ Spanish in the world 2012 (Instituto Cervantes): 3,017,265 Spanish speakers. 439,000 with native knowledge, 2,557,773 with limited knowledge (page 6), and 20,492 Spanish students (page 10).
Constitución de la República del Paraguay Archived 8 September 2014 at the Wayback Machine, Article 140
^ "Academia Boliviana de la Lengua". Bolivia. Archived from the original on 29 November 2010. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ Lipski, John M. (2004). "The Spanish language of Equatorial Guinea" (PDF). Arizona Journal of Hispanic Cultural Studies. 8: 117. Archived (PDF) from the original on 21 January 2022. Retrieved 19 January 2022.
"Euromonitor, 2012" (PDF). exteriores.gob.es. p. 32. Archived (PDF) from the original on 25 April 2015. Retrieved 19 April 2015.
Real Academia Española Archived 11 October 2017 at the Wayback Machine, Explanation Archived 6 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine at Spanish Pronto Archived 14 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine (in Spanish and English)
In the 20th century, Spanish was introduced to Equatorial Guinea and the Western Sahara, and to areas of the United States that had not been part of the Spanish Empire, such as Spanish Harlem in New York City. For details on borrowed words and other external influences upon Spanish, see Influences on the Spanish language.
Spanish is the primary language in 20 countries worldwide. As of 2023, it is estimated that about 486 million people speak Spanish as a native language, making it the second most spoken language by number of native speakers.[1] An additional 75 million speak Spanish as a second or foreign language, making it the fourth most spoken language in the world overall after English, Mandarin Chinese, and Hindi with a total number of 538 million speakers.[29] Spanish is also the third most used language on the Internet, after English and Chinese.[30]
Penny 2000, p. 199: whatever might be claimed by other centres, such as Valladolid, it was educated varieties of Madrid Spanish that were mostly regularly reflected in the written standard.
Stephen Burgen, US now has more Spanish speakers than Spain – only Mexico has more Archived 23 November 2018 at the Wayback Machine, US News, 29 June 2015.
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, Ñ, O, P, Q, R,S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z.
"Academia Puertorriqueña de la Lengua Española". Puerto Rico. Archived from the original on 24 August 2010. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Ustedes functions as formal and informal second-person plural in all of Hispanic America, the Canary Islands, and parts of Andalusia. It agrees with verbs in the 3rd person plural. Most of Spain maintains the formal/familiar distinction with ustedes and vosotros respectively. The use of ustedes with the second person plural is sometimes heard in Andalusia, but it's non-standard.
^ Crow, John A. (2005). Spain: the root and the flower. University of California Press. p. 151. ISBN 978-0-520-24496-2. Archived from the original on 17 August 2021. Retrieved 28 October 2020.
There are other hypotheses apart from the one suggested by the Royal Spanish Academy. Spanish philologist Ramón Menéndez Pidal suggested that the classic hispanus or hispanicus took the suffix -one from Vulgar Latin, as happened with other words such as bretón (Breton) or sajón (Saxon).
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa ab ac ad ae af ag ah ai aj ak al am an ao ap aq ar as at au av aw ax ay az ba bb bc bd be bf bg bh bi bj bk bl bm bn bo El español: una lengua viva – Informe 2021 (PDF) (Report). Instituto Cervantes. 2021. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 February 2020.
^ "Summary by language size". Ethnologue. 3 October 2018. Archived from the original on 26 December 2018. Retrieved 14 November 2020.
The Spanish vocabulary has been influenced by several languages: As in other European languages, Classical Greek words (Hellenisms) are abundant in several fields, mainly in Art, Science, Politics, Nature, etc.[227] Its vocabulary has also been influenced by Arabic, having developed during the Al-Andalus era in the Iberian Peninsula, with around 8% of its vocabulary having Arabic lexical roots.[228][229][230][231] It has also been influenced by Basque, Iberian, Celtiberian, Visigothic, and other neighboring Ibero-Romance languages.[232][231] Additionally, it has absorbed vocabulary from other languages, particularly other Romance languages such as French, Latin, Mozarabic, Portuguese, Galician, Catalan, Occitan, and Sardinian, as well as from Quechua, Nahuatl, and other indigenous languages of the Americas.[233]
^ "Census estimate for 2020" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 14 November 2021. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
^ "Academia Filipina de la Lengua Española" (in Spanish). Philippines. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ Evolution de la population par sexe de 1976 à 2012 Archived 15 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine en: Annuaire Statistique du Cameroun 2010. Consultado el 23 August 2012.
Lipski, John (1994). Latin American Spanish (1st ed.). Longman. p. 55: An indisputable influence in the formation of Latin American Spanish, often overshadowed by discussion of the 'Andalusian' contribution, is the Canary Islands.
^ [1] Archived 30 November 2011 at the Wayback Machine
"España se desentiende de la preservación del castellano en los campamentos saharauis"
Spanish is by far the most common second language in the country, with over 50 million total speakers if non-native or second-language speakers are included.[38] While English is the de facto national language of the country, Spanish is often used in public services and notices at the federal and state levels. Spanish is also used in administration in the state of New Mexico.[39] The language has a strong influence in major metropolitan areas such as those of Los Angeles, Miami, San Antonio, New York, San Francisco, Dallas, Tucson and Phoenix of the Arizona Sun Corridor, as well as more recently, Chicago, Las Vegas, Boston, Denver, Houston, Indianapolis, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Salt Lake City, Atlanta, Nashville, Orlando, Tampa, Raleigh and Baltimore-Washington, D.C. due to 20th- and 21st-century immigration.
^ Statistik, Bundesamt für. "Bevölkerung". www.bfs.admin.ch. Archived from the original on 14 January 2016.
"CL", Country, Ethnologue, archived from the original on 3 February 2013, retrieved 12 October 2011, There are 281,600 people who speak another language, mainly Mapudungun (250.000)
The acute accent is used, in addition, to distinguish between certain homophones, especially when one of them is a stressed word and the other one is a clitic: compare el ('the', masculine singular definite article) with él ('he' or 'it'), or te ('you', object pronoun) with té ('tea'), de (preposition 'of') versus dé ('give' [formal imperative/third-person present subjunctive]), and se (reflexive pronoun) versus sé ('I know' or imperative 'be').
Constitución Política del Perú Archived 17 May 2014 at the Wayback Machine, Article 48
Alfassa, Shelomo (December 1999). "Ladinokomunita". Foundation for the Advancement of Sephardic Studies and Culture. Archived from the original on 2 April 2010. Retrieved 4 February 2010.
^ a b c d e f g h i Demografía de la lengua española (PDF) (in Spanish), ES, p. 10, archived (PDF) from the original on 23 September 2010, retrieved 23 February 2010, to countries with official Spanish status.
^ Real Academia Española Archived 11 October 2017 at the Wayback Machine, Explanation Archived 6 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine at Spanish Pronto Archived 14 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine (in Spanish and English)
Lapesa, Raphael (1960). Historia de la lengua española. Madrid. p. 97. ISBN 978-0-520-05469-1. Archived from the original on 23 December 2016. Retrieved 23 October 2016.
Ginsburgh, Victor; Weber, Shlomo (2011). How Many Languages Do We Need?: The Economics of Linguistic Diversity. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-13689-9. Archived from the original on 16 August 2021. Retrieved 28 October 2020.
"Cifras" (PDF), El español: una lengua viva (in Spanish), ES: Instituto Cervantes, p. 10, archived (PDF) from the original on 24 February 2016, retrieved 14 February 2016 Students across the World.
^ "2009 estimate" (PDF). UN. 2008. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 March 2009. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
Vicente 2011, p. 67. sfn error: no target: CITEREFVicente2011 (help)
"Presidential Decree No. 155 : PHILIPPINE LAWS, STATUTES and CODES : CHAN ROBLES VIRTUAL LAW LIBRARY". Chanrobles.com. Archived from the original on 3 October 2013. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
www.um.es Archived 26 June 2014 at the Wayback Machine (5.2. Datos descriptivos de los usos de español e inglés, Gráfico 2). 77.3% of the Gibraltar population speak Spanish with their mother more, or equal than English.
^ "Más 'speak spanish' que en España". Archived from the original on 20 May 2011. Retrieved 6 October 2007. (in Spanish)
^ "Census estimate for 2022". Archived (PDF) from the original on 22 April 2020. Retrieved 18 March 2020.
^ "Census of India, 2022". Archived from the original on 19 June 2016. Retrieved 14 January 2022.
"Spanish Language Facts". Encyclopedia.com. Archived from the original on 22 May 2011. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
"South America :: Bolivia — The World Factbook – Central Intelligence Agency"
www.state.gov Archived 4 June 2019 at the Wayback Machine. 2015 estimate
Andrew (10 April 2018). "A Brief Guide to Regional Variation of the Forms of Address (Tú, Vos, Usted) in Spanish". Learn Spanish with Andrew. Archived from the original on 9 November 2020. Retrieved 2 November 2020.
^ "Academia Hondureña de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Honduras. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Spanish is the official and most spoken language on Easter Island, which is geographically part of Polynesia in Oceania and politically part of Chile. However, Easter Island's traditional language is Rapa Nui, an Eastern Polynesian language.
Native command group (GDL): 266,955 non-nationalized Spanish-speaking immigrants, 63,752 nationalized Spanish-speaking immigrants, 44,500 Spanish speakers of children of immigrants (second generation).375,207 total native speakers, but there are another 37,047 non mother tongue speakers with native skills. Anuario del Instituto Cervantes 2020 (page 325). "Germany and their Spanish speakers" Archived 18 February 2020 at the Wayback Machine
In Chilean voseo on the other hand, almost all verb forms are distinct from their standard tú-forms.
And in Central American voseo, one can see even further distinction.
^ Mario A. Pei (1949) A New Methodology for Romance Classification, WORD, 5:2, 135-146, doi:10.1080/00437956.1949.11659494
"De nuevo sobre los nombres medievales de la lengua de Castilla"
"The Influence of German on the Lexicon of Palauan and Kosraean (Dissertation)"
^ a b c Vicente 2011, p. 67. sfn error: no target: CITEREFVicente2011 (help)
"Standardness and nonstandardness in Spain: dialect attrition and revitalization of regional dialects of Spanish"
Although Spanish has no official recognition in the former British colony of Belize (known until 1973 as British Honduras) where English is the sole official language, according to the 2010 census it was then spoken natively by 45% of the population and 56.6% of the total population were able to speak the language.[40]
^ "native knowledge speakers" (in Spanish). Realinstitutoelcano.org. 18 February 2009. Archived from the original on 9 February 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
Spanish is a Romance language of the Indo-European language family that evolved from colloquial Latin spoken on the Iberian Peninsula. Today, it is a global language with about 486 million native speakers, mainly in the Americas and Spain.[1] Spanish is the official language of 20 countries. It is the world's second-most spoken native language after Mandarin Chinese;[5][6] the world's fourth-most spoken language overall after English, Mandarin Chinese, and Hindustani (Hindi-Urdu); and the world's most widely spoken Romance language. The largest population of native speakers is in Mexico.[7]
"La lengua de Cervantes" (PDF) (in Spanish). Ministerio de la Presidencia de España. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 October 2008. Retrieved 24 August 2008. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ "Historia de un país" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 15 March 2015.
^ El español en Namibia, 2005. Archived 2 March 2013 at the Wayback Machine Instituto Cervantes.
Diccionario Panhispánico de Dudas Archived 16 April 2008 at the Wayback Machine, 1st ed.
^ "Official Languages | United Nations". United Nations. Archived from the original on 17 October 2015. Retrieved 19 November 2015.
Eurobarometr 2012 Archived 29 April 2013 at the Wayback Machine (page T64): Non native people who speak Spanish well enough in order to be able to have a conversation.
"La época visigoda / Susana Rodríguez Rosique | Biblioteca Virtual Miguel de Cervantes"
^ Andrew (10 April 2018). "A Brief Guide to Regional Variation of the Forms of Address (Tú, Vos, Usted) in Spanish". Learn Spanish with Andrew. Archived from the original on 9 November 2020. Retrieved 2 November 2020.
^ "Academia Paraguaya de la Lengua Española". Paraguay. Archived from the original on 28 July 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ [2] Archived 7 January 2012 at the Wayback Machine
Gonzalez, Ana (13 August 2013). "(2011)". pewresearch.org. Archived from the original on 27 March 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ "Costa Rica". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 25 March 2015. Retrieved 1 March 2015.
^ a b "MX", The World Factbook, USA: CIA, archived from the original on 26 January 2021, retrieved 1 May 2011: Spanish only 92.7%
Hernández Campoy, Juan Manuel; Villena Ponsoda, Juan Andrés (2009). "Standardness and nonstandardness in Spain: dialect attrition and revitalization of regional dialects of Spanish". International Journal of the Sociology of Language. 196–197 (196–197): 185–186. doi:10.1515/IJSL.2009.021. S2CID 145000590. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 24 January 2022.
"The decline of the indigenous languages of Equatorial Guinea: a manifestation of the loss of cultural identity"
CIA Factbook (19 February 1999). "(2019)". CIA Factbook. Archived from the original on 10 January 2021. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ Rice, John (2010). "sejours linguistiques en Espagne". sejours-linguistiques-en-espagne.com. Archived from the original on 18 January 2013. Retrieved 3 March 2022.
^ Los cubanos, la élite de Sudán del Sur (in Spanish), FR: Radio France International, 6 July 2011, archived from the original on 12 January 2012, retrieved 20 December 2011
The development of the Spanish sound system from that of Vulgar Latin exhibits most of the changes that are typical of Western Romance languages, including lenition of intervocalic consonants (thus Latin .mw-parser-output span.smallcaps{font-variant:small-caps}.mw-parser-output span.smallcaps-smaller{font-size:85%}vīta > Spanish vida). The diphthongization of Latin stressed short e and o—which occurred in open syllables in French and Italian, but not at all in Catalan or Portuguese—is found in both open and closed syllables in Spanish, as shown in the following table:
Real Academia Española (RAE), Royal Spanish Academy. Spain's official institution, with a mission to ensure the stability of the Spanish language
^ "Como saharauis queremos conservar el español" (in Spanish). 3 March 2008. Archived from the original on 9 March 2016. Retrieved 15 March 2015.
^ "Gloria Nistal Rosique: El caso del español en Guinea ecuatorial, Instituto Cervantes" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 October 2012. Retrieved 7 February 2010.
^ There are 490,124 people who speak another language, mainly Mískito (154,000).: Ethnologue Archived 15 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
^ "Equatorial Guinea census estimate". Population statistics. 2021. Archived from the original on 6 August 2010. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
"Academia Nacional de Letras del Uruguay". Uruguay. Archived from the original on 19 March 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
"Jamaican Population". Statinja.gov.jm. Archived from the original on 6 October 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
Dictionary of Languages: The Definitive Reference to More Than 400 Languages
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
"Census ONE estimate for 2022" (in Spanish). Oficina Nacional de Estadística. Archived from the original on 14 November 2019. Retrieved 13 July 2021.
"Exclusión de ch y ll del abecedario | Real Academia Española"
^ Lipski, John M. (2014). "¿Existe un dialecto "ecuatoguineano" del español?". Revista Iberoamericana. 80 (248–249): 865–882. doi:10.5195/REVIBEROAMER.2014.7202. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 19 January 2022.
"Census", The World factbook, US: CIA, 2007, archived from the original on 19 November 2021, retrieved 4 October 2011, Spanish (official) 84.1%, Quechua (official) 13%, Aymara 1.7%, Ashaninka 0.3%, other native languages (includes a large number of minor Amazonian languages) 0.7%, other 0.2%
^ a b c Alfassa, Shelomo (December 1999). "Ladinokomunita". Foundation for the Advancement of Sephardic Studies and Culture. Archived from the original on 2 April 2010. Retrieved 4 February 2010.
^ There are 207,750 people who speak another language, mainly Garifuna (98,000).: Ethnologue Archived 13 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine
"El español: una lengua viva. Informe 2021 (Pág. 11 y 13)"
Harris, James (1967). "Sound Change in Spanish and the Theory of Markedness". Language. 45 (3): 538–52. doi:10.2307/411438. JSTOR 411438.
^ Spanish in the World Archived 6 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine, Language Magazine, 18 November 2019.
^ "Voseo según DPD" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 4 November 2012. Retrieved 27 January 2022.
^ Quilis and Casado-Fresnillo, 1995, pp. 27-35; cfr Bituga-Nchama & Nvé-Ndumu 2021, p. 41
Legaspi, Amita O. (3 July 2012). "PNoy (President Benigno Aquino III) and Spain's Queen Sofia welcome return of Spanish language in Philippine schools". GMA News. Archived from the original on 7 July 2012. Retrieved 8 August 2013.
^ "BBC Education — Languages Across Europe — Spanish". Bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 29 September 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
10Organizations											Toggle Organizations subsection																					10.1Royal Spanish Academy																											10.2Association of Spanish Language Academies																											10.3Cervantes Institute																											10.4Official use by international organizations
"czso.cz" (in Czech). czso.cz. 31 December 2013. Archived from the original on 31 March 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ "Argentinian census INDEC estimate for 2022". Archived from the original on 26 February 2014. Retrieved 26 February 2014.
"Statistics – FAQ's". Gibraltar.gov.gi. 12 November 2012. Archived from the original on 5 January 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
^ "Proyecciones de Población". ine.gov.ve. Archived from the original on 13 November 2015. Retrieved 12 October 2014. (2020)
^ Penny 2000, p. 199: whatever might be claimed by other centres, such as Valladolid, it was educated varieties of Madrid Spanish that were mostly regularly reflected in the written standard.
FrenchJerseyFrancitanNorth American DialectsPennsylvaniaLouisianienHoumaCanadianAcadianChiacSt. Marys Bay FrenchBrayonNewfoundlandQuebecoisJoualMagouaFranco-OntarianMétisDetroit River CanadienNew EnglandMissouri FrenchCreoles
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Spanish:
"Gloria Nistal Rosique: El caso del español en Guinea ecuatorial, Instituto Cervantes" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 October 2012. Retrieved 7 February 2010.
The Royal Spanish Academy (Real Academia Española), on the other hand, currently uses the term español in its publications. However, from 1713 to 1923, it called the language castellano.
"Voseo según DPD" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 4 November 2012. Retrieved 27 January 2022.
In Central America, especially in Honduras, usted is often used as a formal pronoun to convey respect between the members of a romantic couple. Usted is also used that way between parents and children in the Andean regions of Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela.
Different etymologies have been suggested for the term español (Spanish). According to the Royal Spanish Academy, español derives from the Occitan word espaignolcode: oci promoted to code: ocand that, in turn, derives from the Vulgar Latin *hispaniolus ('of Hispania').[19] Hispania was the Roman name for the Iberian Peninsula.
"Spanish Influence on Language, Culture, and Philippine History". Archived from the original on 5 March 2015. Retrieved 15 March 2015.
^ "INEC estimate for 2022". INEC. Archived from the original on 27 March 2012. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ "Academia Argentina de Letras". Argentina. 25 March 2010. Archived from the original on 28 July 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
There are 207,750 people who speak another language, mainly Garifuna (98,000).: Ethnologue Archived 13 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine
Comparán Rizo, Juan José. Raices Griegas y latinas (in Spanish). Ediciones Umbral. p. 17. ISBN 978-968-5430-01-2. Archived from the original on 23 April 2017. Retrieved 22 August 2017.
^ "An increasingly diverse linguistic profile: Corrected data from the 2016 Census". Statistics Canada. 17 August 2017. Archived from the original on 4 May 2018. Retrieved 10 September 2019.
Todos los seres humanos nacen libres e iguales en dignidad y derechos y, dotados como están de razón y conciencia, deben comportarse fraternalmente los unos con los otros.
Ocampo, Ambeth (4 December 2007). "The loss of Spanish". Makati City, Philippines: Philippine Daily Inquirer (INQUIRER.net). Opinion. Archived from the original on 11 March 2012. Retrieved 26 July 2010.
^ "Academia Mexicana de la Lengua". Mexico. 22 September 2010. Archived from the original on 15 September 2010. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
In addition to the many exceptions to these tendencies, there are numerous minimal pairs that contrast solely on stress such as sábana ('sheet') and sabana ('savannah'); límite ('boundary'), limite ('he/she limits') and limité ('I limited'); líquido ('liquid'), liquido ('I sell off') and liquidó ('he/she sold off').
3Geographical distribution											Toggle Geographical distribution subsection																					3.1Europe																											3.2Americas																								3.2.1Hispanic America																											3.2.2United States																											3.2.3Rest of the Americas																														3.3Africa																								3.3.1Sub-Saharan Africa																											3.3.2North Africa and Macaronesia																														3.4Asia																											3.5Oceania																											3.6Spanish speakers by country
Lope Blanch, Juan M. (1972) En torno a las vocales caedizas del español mexicano, pp.53 a 73, Estudios sobre el español de México, editorial Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, México URL Archived 5 February 2011 at the Wayback Machine.
426,515,910 speakers L1 in 2012 (ethnologue "Spanish". Archived from the original on 28 October 2013. Retrieved 10 August 2013.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)) of 7,097,500,000 people in the World in 2012 ([4] Archived 5 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine): 6%.
^ Valle, José del; Villa, Laura (2006). "Spanish in Brazil: Language Policy, Business, and Cultural Propaganda". Language Policy. 5 (4): 376–377. doi:10.1007/s10993-006-9035-2. S2CID 144373408. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 5 February 2022.
Statcan, CA: GC, February 1995, archived from the original on 4 July 2016, retrieved 7 August 2012
Typical of Spanish (as also of neighboring Gascon extending as far north as the Gironde estuary, and found in a small area of Calabria), attributed by some scholars to a Basque substratum was the mutation of Latin initial f into h- whenever it was followed by a vowel that did not diphthongize. The h-, still preserved in spelling, is now silent in most varieties of the language, although in some Andalusian and Caribbean dialects it is still aspirated in some words. Because of borrowings from Latin and from neighboring Romance languages, there are many f-/h-doublets in modern Spanish: Fernando and Hernando (both Spanish for "Ferdinand"), ferrero and herrero (both Spanish for "smith"), fierro and hierro (both Spanish for "iron"), and fondo and hondo (both Spanish for "deep", but fondo means "bottom" while hondo means "deep"); hacer (Spanish for "to make") is cognate to the root word of satisfacer ("to satisfy"), and hecho ("made") is similarly cognate to the root word of satisfecho ("satisfied").
"Background Note: Andorra". U.S. Department of State: Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs. January 2007. Archived from the original on 22 January 2017. Retrieved 20 August 2007.
^ The Spanish 1970 census claims 16.648 Spanish speakers in Western Sahara ([3] Archived 17 September 2009 at the Wayback Machine) but probably most of them were people born in Spain who left after the Moroccan annexation
Evolution de la population par sexe de 1976 à 2012
Dworkin, Steven N. (2012). A History of the Spanish Lexicon: A Linguistic Perspective. Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 83. ISBN 978-0-19-954114-0. Archived from the original on 15 September 2015. Retrieved 17 June 2015.,Macpherson, I. R. (1980). Spanish phonology. Manchester: Manchester University Press. p. 93. ISBN 0-7190-0788-7. Archived from the original on 23 December 2016. Retrieved 23 October 2016.,Martínez Egido, José Joaquín (2007). Constitución del léxico español. p. 15. ISBN 978-84-9822-653-9. Archived from the original on 26 June 2014. Retrieved 23 October 2016.
^ Rodríguez-Ponga, Rafael. "New Prospects for the Spanish Language in the Philippines". Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 1 March 2015.
^ "PE", Country, Ethnologue, archived from the original on 2 December 2011, retrieved 21 September 2011, There are 5,782,260 people who speak other language as mother tongue (main languages: Quechua (among 32 Quechua's varieties) 4,773,900, Aymara (2 varieties) 661 000, Chinese 100,000).
^ a b Estimaciones y proyecciones de población 2010–2040: Total del país, INDEC, 2013, archived from the original on 1 October 2018, retrieved 22 February 2015
"Novo ensino médio terá currículo flexível e mais horas de aula"
The term castellano is related to Castile (Castilla or archaically Castiella), the kingdom where the language was originally spoken. The name of Castile, in turn, is usually assumed to be derived from castillo ('castle').
^ "Eurostat (1/1/2012 estimate)". Epp.eurostat.ec.europa.eu. 17 October 2013. Archived from the original on 20 July 2011. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
"Novo ensino médio terá currículo flexível e mais horas de aula". O Globo. 23 September 2016. Archived from the original on 23 September 2016. Retrieved 23 September 2016.
Rodríguez-Ponga, Rafael. "New Prospects for the Spanish Language in the Philippines". Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 1 March 2015.
^ "(2012)". ksh.hu. Archived from the original on 16 November 2013. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
Spanish in the AmericasNorth American SpanishCentral American SpanishCaribbean SpanishSouth American SpanishSpanish in the United States
Versteegh, Kees (2003). The Arabic language (Repr. ed.). Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press. p. 228. ISBN 0-7486-1436-2. Archived from the original on 26 June 2014. Retrieved 23 October 2016.
^ Quintana, Lucía; Mora, Juan Pablo (2002). "Enseñanza del acervo léxico árabe de la lengua española" (PDF). ASELE. Actas XIII: 705. Archived (PDF) from the original on 28 May 2016. Retrieved 23 October 2016.: "El léxico español de procedencia árabe es muy abundante: se ha señalado que constituye, aproximadamente, un 8% del vocabulario total"
"International Programs – People and Households – U.S. Census Bureau"
"John B. Dalbor's Voice Files to Accompany Spanish Pronunciation". Auburn.edu. Archived from the original on 8 March 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
^ Versteegh, Kees (2003). The Arabic language (Repr. ed.). Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press. p. 228. ISBN 0-7486-1436-2. Archived from the original on 26 June 2014. Retrieved 23 October 2016.
"español, la". Diccionario de la lengua española. Real Academia Espańola. Archived from the original on 24 April 2017. Retrieved 13 July 2021.
"INE (Pop clock)". Archived from the original on 19 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
"Argentinian census INDEC estimate for 2022". Archived from the original on 26 February 2014. Retrieved 26 February 2014.
"Información sobre el Instituto Cervantes. Quiénes somos: qué es el Instituto Cervantes"
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p
Penny, Ralph (2000). Variation and Change in Spanish. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-78045-4.
"Academia Hondureña de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Honduras. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
"Netherland Census ClockPop". Cbs.nl. Archived from the original on 17 June 2009. Retrieved 20 August 2012.
There are 490,124 people who speak another language, mainly Mískito (154,000).: Ethnologue Archived 15 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
^ There are 150,200 people who speak another language as mother tongue, UY, Ethnologue, archived from the original on 16 November 2011, retrieved 17 October 2011
^ Bergua Cavero, J., Los helenismos del español, Madrid (Gredos) 2004
El castellano es la lengua española oficial del Estado. ... Las demás lenguas españolas serán también oficiales en las respectivas Comunidades Autónomas...Castilian is the official Spanish language of the State. ... The other Spanish languages shall also be official in their respective Autonomous Communities...
^ a b Cano Aguilar, Rafael (2013). "De nuevo sobre los nombres medievales de la lengua de Castilla". E-Spania (15). doi:10.4000/e-spania.22518. Archived from the original on 7 July 2022. Retrieved 7 July 2022.
"2009 estimate" (PDF). UN. 2008. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 March 2009. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
20 countries speak Spanish including 2 not official Belize and United States of America.
In addition to sharing most of its borders with Spanish-speaking countries, the creation of Mercosur in the early 1990s induced a favorable situation for the promotion of Spanish language teaching in Brazil.[42][43] In 2005, the National Congress of Brazil approved a bill, signed into law by the President, making it mandatory for schools to offer Spanish as an alternative foreign language course in both public and private secondary schools in Brazil.[44] In September 2016 this law was revoked by Michel Temer after impeachment of Dilma Rousseff.[45] In many border towns and villages along Paraguay and Uruguay, a mixed language known as Portuñol is spoken.[46]
The consonant written u or v in Latin and pronounced [w] in Classical Latin had probably "fortified" to a bilabial fricative /β/ in Vulgar Latin. In early Spanish (but not in Catalan or Portuguese) it merged with the consonant written b (a bilabial with plosive and fricative allophones). In modern Spanish, there is no difference between the pronunciation of orthographic b and v.
Eddington, David (2000). "Spanish Stress Assignment within the Analogical Modeling of Language" (PDF). Language. 76 (1): 92–109. doi:10.2307/417394. JSTOR 417394. Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 July 2013. Retrieved 7 April 2010.
Some words can be significantly different in different Hispanophone countries. Most Spanish speakers can recognize other Spanish forms even in places where they are not commonly used, but Spaniards generally do not recognize specifically American usages. For example, Spanish mantequilla, aguacate and albaricoque (respectively, 'butter', 'avocado', 'apricot') correspond to manteca (word used for lard in Peninsular Spanish), palta, and damasco, respectively, in Argentina, Chile (except manteca), Paraguay, Peru (except manteca and damasco), and Uruguay.
The interrogative pronouns (qué, cuál, dónde, quién, etc.) also receive accents in direct or indirect questions, and some demonstratives (ése, éste, aquél, etc.) can be accented when used as pronouns. Accent marks used to be omitted on capital letters (a widespread practice in the days of typewriters and the early days of computers when only lowercase vowels were available with accents), although the Real Academia Española advises against this and the orthographic conventions taught at schools enforce the use of the accent.
^ Cervantes, Biblioteca Virtual Miguel de. "La época visigoda / Susana Rodríguez Rosique | Biblioteca Virtual Miguel de Cervantes". www.cervantesvirtual.com (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 8 February 2017. Retrieved 7 February 2017.
^ "Statistics – FAQ's". Gibraltar.gov.gi. 12 November 2012. Archived from the original on 5 January 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
Today, the majority of the Spanish speakers live in Hispanic America. Nationally, Spanish is the official language—either de facto or de jure—of Argentina, Bolivia (co-official with 36 indigenous languages), Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico (co-official with 63 indigenous languages), Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay (co-official with Guaraní),[33] Peru (co-official with Quechua, Aymara, and "the other indigenous languages"[34]), Puerto Rico (co-official with English),[35] Uruguay, and Venezuela.
"Census Bureau (01/July/2019)". Census.gov. Archived from the original on 4 March 2021. Retrieved 14 December 2020.
Cano Aguilar, Rafael (2013). "De nuevo sobre los nombres medievales de la lengua de Castilla". E-Spania (15). doi:10.4000/e-spania.22518. Archived from the original on 7 July 2022. Retrieved 7 July 2022.
Bergua Cavero, J., Los helenismos del español, Madrid (Gredos) 2004
"FAQ". The Secretariat for The Implementation of Spanish. Trinidad and Tobago: Government of the Republic. Archived from the original on 3 November 2010. Retrieved 10 January 2012.
Evolution de la population par sexe de 1976 à 2012 Archived 15 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine en: Annuaire Statistique du Cameroun 2010. Consultado el 23 August 2012.
^ "Internet World Users by Language". Miniwatts Marketing Group. 2008. Archived from the original on 26 April 2012. Retrieved 20 November 2007.
"Summary by language size". Ethnologue. 3 October 2018. Archived from the original on 26 December 2018. Retrieved 14 November 2020.
(1 July, 2021), US: Census Bureau, archived from the original on 4 March 2021, retrieved 4 November 2020
^ "Spanish language in Philippines". Archived from the original on 18 March 2015. Retrieved 1 March 2015.
Tuteo as a cultured form alternates with voseo as a popular or rural form in Bolivia, in the north and south of Peru, in Andean Ecuador, in small zones of the Venezuelan Andes (and most notably in the Venezuelan state of Zulia), and in a large part of Colombia. Some researchers maintain that voseo can be heard in some parts of eastern Cuba, and others assert that it is absent from the island.[220]
^ "Presidential Decree No. 155 : PHILIPPINE LAWS, STATUTES and CODES : CHAN ROBLES VIRTUAL LAW LIBRARY". Chanrobles.com. Archived from the original on 3 October 2013. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
"Census estimate for 2022". Archived from the original on 2 January 2022. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
^ "Accueil – INSAE". www.insae-bj.org. Archived from the original on 17 December 2015. Retrieved 20 April 2016.
Spanish is one of the six official languages of the United Nations, and it is also used as an official language by the European Union, Organization of American States, Union of South American Nations, Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, African Union and many other international organizations.[16]
"Puerto Rico Elevates English". the New York Times. 29 January 1993. Archived from the original on 22 January 2008. Retrieved 6 October 2007.
^ "Academia Guatemalteca de la Lengua" (in Spanish). Guatemala. Archived from the original on 4 August 2008. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
^ Crawford, John (1992). Language loyalties: a source book on the official English controversy. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. p. 62.
Most of the grammatical and typological features of Spanish are shared with the other Romance languages. Spanish is a fusional language. The noun and adjective systems exhibit two genders and two numbers. In addition, articles and some pronouns and determiners have a neuter gender in their singular form. There are about fifty conjugated forms per verb, with 3 tenses: past, present, future; 2 aspects for past: perfective, imperfective; 4 moods: indicative, subjunctive, conditional, imperative; 3 persons: first, second, third; 2 numbers: singular, plural; 3 verboid forms: infinitive, gerund, and past participle. The indicative mood is the unmarked one, while the subjunctive mood expresses uncertainty or indetermination, and is commonly paired with the conditional, which is a mood used to express "would" (as in, "I would eat if I had food); the imperative is a mood to express a command, commonly a one word phrase – "¡Di!", "¡Talk!".
Spanish is the official language of Spain, the country after which it is named and from which it originated. Other European territories in which it is also widely spoken include Gibraltar and Andorra.[31]
Spanish creole: Quilis, Antonio (1996), La lengua española en Filipinas (PDF), Cervantes virtual, p. 54 and 55, archived (PDF) from the original on 6 August 2009, retrieved 1 December 2009
^ www.um.es Archived 26 June 2014 at the Wayback Machine (5.2. Datos descriptivos de los usos de español e inglés, Gráfico 2). 77.3% of the Gibraltar population speak Spanish with their mother more, or equal than English.
The first documents to show traces of what is today regarded as the precursor of modern Spanish are from the 9th century. Throughout the Middle Ages and into the modern era, the most important influences on the Spanish lexicon came from neighboring Romance languages—Mozarabic (Andalusi Romance), Navarro-Aragonese, Leonese, Catalan, Portuguese, Galician, Occitan, and later, French and Italian. Spanish also borrowed a considerable number of words from Arabic, as well as a minor influence from the Germanic Gothic language through the migration of tribes and a period of Visigoth rule in Iberia. In addition, many more words were borrowed from Latin through the influence of written language and the liturgical language of the Church. The loanwords were taken from both Classical Latin and Renaissance Latin, the form of Latin in use at that time.
According to the theories of Ramón Menéndez Pidal, local sociolects of Vulgar Latin evolved into Spanish, in the north of Iberia, in an area centered in the city of Burgos, and this dialect was later brought to the city of Toledo, where the written standard of Spanish was first developed, in the 13th century.[21] In this formative stage, Spanish developed a strongly differing variant from its close cousin, Leonese, and, according to some authors, was distinguished by a heavy Basque influence (see Iberian Romance languages). This distinctive dialect spread to southern Spain with the advance of the Reconquista, and meanwhile gathered a sizable lexical influence from the Arabic of Al-Andalus, much of it indirectly, through the Romance Mozarabic dialects (some 4,000 Arabic-derived words, make up around 8% of the language today).[22] The written standard for this new language was developed in the cities of Toledo, in the 13th to 16th centuries, and Madrid, from the 1570s.[21]
^ "Academia Dominicana de la Lengua". República Dominicana. Archived from the original on 22 December 2010. Retrieved 5 February 2011.
Spanish is closely related to the other West Iberian Romance languages, including Asturian, Aragonese, Galician, Ladino, Leonese, Mirandese and Portuguese.
The Gramática de la lengua castellana, written in Salamanca in 1492 by Elio Antonio de Nebrija, was the first grammar written for a modern European language.[24] According to a popular anecdote, when Nebrija presented it to Queen Isabella I, she asked him what was the use of such a work, and he answered that language is the instrument of empire.[25] In his introduction to the grammar, dated 18 August 1492, Nebrija wrote that "... language was always the companion of empire."[26]
^ "Census INE estimate for 2022". Archived from the original on 13 January 2022. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
^ (US. Census Bureau 2017 Archived 24 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine)
The four main phonological divisions are based respectively on (1) the phoneme /θ/ ("theta"), (2) the debuccalization of syllable-final /s/, (3) the sound of the spelled ⟨s⟩, (4) and the phoneme /ʎ/ ("turned y"),[214]
"2011 Census". Censusdata.abs.gov.au. Archived from the original on 3 April 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2014.
Spanish syntax is considered right-branching, meaning that subordinate or modifying constituents tend to be placed after head words. The language uses prepositions (rather than postpositions or inflection of nouns for case), and usually—though not always—places adjectives after nouns, as do most other Romance languages.
^ "Concise Oxford Companion to the English Language". Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 25 September 2008. Retrieved 24 July 2008.
"Guatemala: Estimaciones y proyecciones de población a largo plazo 1950-2050"
Statistical Institute of Belize (2013). Belize Population and Housing Census 2010: Country Report (PDF) (Report). Archived from the original (PDF) on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 17 February 2018.
Spanish was briefly removed from official status in 1973 but reimplemented under the administration of Ferdinand Marcos two months later.[63] It remained an official language until the ratification of the present constitution in 1987, in which it was re-designated as a voluntary and optional auxiliary language.[64] Despite an effort to reintroduce the language into the Philippine education system in 2010, the initiative failed to gain any traction, with the number of secondary schools at which the language is offered either as a compulsory subject or an elective remaining very limited.[65][66] Today, the actual number of proficient Spanish speakers is around 400,000, or under 0.5% of the population.[67][68]
Baquero Velásquez, Julia M.; Westphal Montt, Germán F. (2014). "UN ANÁLISIS SINCRÓNICO DEL VOSEO VERBAL CHILENO Y RIOPLATENSE". Forma y Función (in Spanish). 27 (2): 11–40. doi:10.15446/fyf.v27n2.47558.
While being mutually intelligible, there are important variations (phonological, grammatical, and lexical) in the spoken Spanish of the various regions of Spain and throughout the Spanish-speaking areas of the Americas.
^ "Spanish Language Facts". Encyclopedia.com. Archived from the original on 22 May 2011. Retrieved 6 November 2010.
^ "Countries with most Spanish speakers 2021". Statista. Archived from the original on 17 May 2022. Retrieved 17 May 2022.
"Equatorial Guinea census estimate". Population statistics. 2021. Archived from the original on 6 August 2010. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
^ "El español se atasca como lengua científica". Servicio de Información y Noticias Científicas (in Spanish). 5 March 2014. Archived from the original on 22 February 2019. Retrieved 29 January 2019.
El español en el mundo [Spanish in the world] (PDF), ES: Instituto Cervantes, 2012, p. 6, archived from the original (PDF) on 17 October 2012
Dalby, Andrew (1998). Dictionary of Languages: The Definitive Reference to More Than 400 Languages. Columbia University Press. ISBN 0-231-11568-7. Archived from the original on 17 August 2021. Retrieved 28 October 2020.
Engelberg, Stefan. "The Influence of German on the Lexicon of Palauan and Kosraean (Dissertation)" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 21 December 2012. Retrieved 23 August 2012.
^ "Guatemala: Estimaciones y proyecciones de población a largo plazo 1950-2050". www.oj.gob.gt (in Spanish). Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Archived (PDF) from the original on 23 July 2018.
Confucius (551–479 BCE) stated that authority has the responsibility to provide oral and written instruction to the people under the rule, and "should do them good in every possible way."[21] One of the deepest teachings of Confucius may have been the superiority of personal exemplification over explicit rules of behavior. His moral teachings emphasized self-cultivation, emulation of moral exemplars, and the attainment of skilled judgement rather than knowledge of rules. Other relevant practices in the Confucian teaching tradition include the Rite and its notion of body-knowledge as well as Confucian understanding of the self, one that has a broader conceptualization than the Western individual self.[29]
^ Shulman, Lee (1987). "Knowledge and Teaching: Foundations of the New Reform" (PDF). Harvard Educational Review. 15 (2): 4–14. Retrieved 12 June 2017.
^ Macchelein, J.; Simons, M. (2021). Looking after school:a critical analysis of personalisation in education (1st ed.). Leuven: E-ducation, Culture & Society Publishers. ISBN 978-9-090106-59-5.
Watkins, Chris; Mortimore, Peter (1999). "1: Pedagogy: What do we Know?". Understanding Pedagogy and its Impact on Learning. doi:10.4135/9781446219454. ISBN 9781853964534.
An article from Kathmandu Post published on 3 June 2018 described the usual first day of school in an academic calendar. Teachers meet their students with distinct traits. The diversity of attributions among children or teens exceeds similarities. Educators have to teach students with different cultural, social, and religious backgrounds. This situation entails a differentiated strategy in pedagogy and not the traditional approach for teachers to accomplish goals efficiently.[59]
Ensure content is sensitive to the degree of rule of law in society (trust in authorities and institutions).[41]
Young, Lynne E.; Paterson, Barbara L. (2007). Teaching Nursing: Developing a Student-centered Learning Environment. p. 5. ISBN 978-0781757720.
Pedagogy is closely related to didactics but there are some differences. Usually, didactics is seen as the more limited term that refers mainly to the teacher's role and activities, i.e how their behavior is most beneficial to the process of education. This is one central aspect of pedagogy besides other aspects that consider the learner's perspective as well. In this wider sense, pedagogy focuses on "any conscious activity by one person designed to enhance learning in another".[7]
"pedagogy" Archived 1 May 2019 at the Wayback Machine. Online Etymology Dictionary.
^ Barnard, Henry; Pestalozzi, Johann (1859). Pestalozzi and Pestalozzianism: Life, Educational Principles, and Methods of Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi. FC Brownell..
^ Bentley, Tom (July 2000). "Learning Beyond the Classroom". Educational Management & Administration. 28 (3): 353–364. doi:10.1177/0263211x000283008. ISSN 0263-211X. S2CID 145205546.
^ Distance Education Accrediting Commission. "CHEA-Recognized Scope of Accreditation." "CHEA: Directory of National Career-Related Accrediting Organizations". Archived from the original on 24 December 2016. Retrieved 4 November 2015.. April 2013.
^ "Pædagog" [Pedagogue]. UddannelsesGuiden (in Danish). Ministry of Children and Education. Retrieved 1 September 2019.
Li, G., 2012. Culturally contested Pedagogy: Battles of literacy and schooling between mainstream teachers and Asian immigrant parents. Suny Press.
^ "Howard Gardner". Harvard Graduate School of Education. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
The educational philosophy and pedagogy of Johann Friedrich Herbart (4 May 1776 - 14 August 1841) highlighted the correlation between personal development and the resulting benefits to society. In other words, Herbart proposed that humans become fulfilled once they establish themselves as productive citizens. Herbartianism refers to the movement underpinned by Herbart's theoretical perspectives.[23] Referring to the teaching process, Herbart suggested five steps as crucial components. Specifically, these five steps include: preparation, presentation, association, generalization, and application.[24] Herbart suggests that pedagogy relates to having assumptions as an educator and a specific set of abilities with a deliberate end goal in mind.[25]
Dialogic learning is learning that takes place through dialogue. It is typically the result of egalitarian dialogue; in other words, the consequence of a dialogue in which different people provide arguments based on validity claims and not on power claims.[43]
^ "Multiple Intelligences Theory (Gardner) – Learning Theories". Learning Theories. 17 July 2014. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
Illeris, Knud (2004). The three dimensions of learning. Malabar, Fla: Krieger Pub. Co. ISBN 9781575242583.
The pedagogy of John Dewey (20 October 1859 – 1 June 1952) is presented in several works, including My Pedagogic Creed (1897), The School and Society (1900), The Child and the Curriculum (1902), Democracy and Education (1916), Schools of To-morrow (1915) with Evelyn Dewey, and Experience and Education (1938). In his eyes, the purpose of education should not revolve around the acquisition of a pre-determined set of skills, but rather the realization of one's full potential and the ability to use those skills for the greater good (My Pedagogic Creed, Dewey, 1897). Dewey advocated for an educational structure that strikes a balance between delivering knowledge while also taking into account the interests and experiences of the student (The Child and the Curriculum, Dewey, 1902). Dewey not only re-imagined the way that the learning process should take place but also the role that the teacher should play within that process. He envisioned a divergence from the mastery of a pre-selected set of skills to the cultivation of autonomy and critical-thinking within the teacher and student alike.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Definition of PEDAGOGY". Merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 9 January 2019.
^ Martin, Jane. "What Should We Do with a Hidden Curriculum When We Find One?" The Hidden Curriculum and Moral Education. Ed. Giroux, Henry and David Purpel. Berkeley, California: McCutchan Publishing Corporation, 1983. 122–139.
“Education and training can only contribute to growth and job-creation if learning is focused on the knowledge, skills and competences to be acquired by students (learning outcomes) through the learning process, rather than on completing a specific stage or on time spent in school.” (European Commission, 2012, p.7) [53]
This is, according to Masschelein, a plea for learning outcomes and demonstrates a vision of education in which the institution is no longer the point of departure. The main ambition in this discourse of education is the efficient and effective realisation of learning outcomes for all. Things like the place and time of learning, didactic and pedagogic support are means to an end: the acquisition of preplanned learning outcomes. And these outcomes are a direct input for the knowledge economy. Masscheleins main critique here is that the main concern is not the educational institution (anymore). Rather, the focus lies on the learning processes and mainly on the learning outcomes of the individual learner.
In Scandinavia, a pedagogue (pædagog) is broadly speaking a practitioner of pedagogy, but the term is primarily reserved for individuals who occupy jobs in pre-school education (such as kindergartens and nurseries). A pedagogue can occupy various kinds of jobs, within this restrictive definition, e.g. in retirement homes, prisons, orphanages, and human resource management. When working with at-risk families or youths they are referred to as social pedagogues (socialpædagog).
Socrates (470 – 399 BCE) employed the Socratic method while engaging with a student or peer. This style does not impart knowledge, but rather tries to strengthen the logic of the student by revealing the conclusions of the statement of the student as erroneous or supported. The instructor in this learning environment recognizes the learners' need to think for themselves to facilitate their ability to think about problems and issues.[20] It was first described by Plato in the Socratic Dialogues.
Compayré, Gabriel (1892). The History of Pedagogy. D.C. Heath & Company.
Bentley, Tom (July 2000). "Learning Beyond the Classroom". Educational Management & Administration. 28 (3): 353–364. doi:10.1177/0263211x000283008. ISSN 0263-211X. S2CID 145205546.
^ a b c d e UNESCO (2019). Empowering students for just societies: a handbook for secondary school teachers. UNESCO. ISBN 978-92-3-100340-0.
Jean Charlier de Gerson (13 December 1363 – 12 July 1429), the Chancellor of the University of Paris, wrote in De parvulis ad Christum trahendis "Little children are more easily managed by caresses than fear," supporting a more gentle approach than his Christian predecessors. He also states "Above all else, let the teacher make an effort to be a father to his pupils." He is considered a precursor of Fenelon.[21]
Kenklies, Karsten (12 February 2012). "Educational Theory as Topological Rhetoric: The Concepts of Pedagogy of Johann Friedrich Herbart and Friedrich Schleiermacher". Studies in Philosophy and Education. 31 (3): 265–273. doi:10.1007/s11217-012-9287-6. ISSN 0039-3746. S2CID 144605837.
2.1Western																								2.1.1Socrates																											2.1.2Plato																											2.1.3Aristotle																											2.1.4Quintilian																											2.1.5Tertullian																											2.1.6Jerome																											2.1.7Jean Gerson																											2.1.8John Amos Comenius																											2.1.9Johann Pestalozzi																											2.1.10Johann Herbart																											2.1.11John Dewey																											2.1.12Paulo Freire
Freire, P. (1970). Pedagogy of the Oppressed. New York: Continuum
Kincheloe, Joe L.; Horn, Raymond A., eds. (2007). The Praeger Handbook of Education and Psychology. p. 552. ISBN 978-0313331237.
Hannafin, M. J., & Hannafin, K. M. (2010). Cognition and student-centered, web-based learning: Issues and implications for research and theory Archived 28 October 2020 at the Wayback Machine. Learning and instruction in the digital age (pp. 11–23). Springer US.
^ Illeris, Knud (2004). The three dimensions of learning. Malabar, Fla: Krieger Pub. Co. ISBN 9781575242583.
However, not everyone agrees with this characterization of pedagogy and some see it less as a science and more as an art or a craft.[7][13] This characterization puts more emphasis on the practical aspect of pedagogy, which may involve various forms of "tacit knowledge that is hard to put into words". This approach is often based on the idea that the most central aspects of teaching are only acquired by practice and cannot be easily codified through scientific inquiry.[8][13] In this regard, pedagogy is concerned with "observing and refining one's skill as a teacher".[13] A more inclusive definition combines these two characterizations and sees pedagogy both as the practice of teaching and the discourse and study of teaching methods. Some theorists give an even wider definition by including considerations such as "the development of health and bodily fitness, social and moral welfare, ethics and aesthetics".[7] Due to this variety of meanings, it is sometimes suggested that pedagogy is a "catch-all term" associated with various issues of teaching and learning. In this sense, it lacks a precise definition.
Adapting the teaching resource should suit appropriate teaching and learning environments, national and local cultural norms, and make it accessible to different types of learners. Key adaptations in teaching resource include:[41]
^ Honeyman, M; Miller, G (December 1993). "Agriculture distance education: A valid alternative for higher education?" (PDF). Proceedings of the 20th Annual National Agricultural Education Research Meeting: 67–73.
^ "pedagogue" Archived 28 April 2017 at the Wayback Machine. Online Etymology Dictionary.
Philosophy of education – Study of nature and aims of education
Critical pedagogical practices may include listening to and including students' knowledge and perspectives in class, making connections between school and the broader community, and posing problems to students that encourage them to question assumed knowledge and understandings. The goal of problem posing to students is to enable them to begin to pose their own problems. Teachers acknowledge their position of authority and exhibit this authority through their actions that support students.[42]
Karl Rosenkranz (1899). The philosophy of education. D. Appleton and Co.
Post Scriptum: From Signature Pedagogies and Transpedagogy to Author Pedagogies. In Ojeda, D. (2019) I Shall Be Several, Studies in Art Education, 60:3, 186–202, DOI: 10.1080/00393541.2019.1640513
^ "Pedagogy definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary". Collinsdictionary.com. Retrieved 16 April 2021.
Vaughan, Dr Norman D. (2010). "Blended Learning".In Cleveland-Innes, MF; Garrison, DR (eds.). An Introduction to Distance Education: Understanding Teaching and Learning in a New Era. Taylor & Francis. p. 165. ISBN 978-0-415-99598-6. Retrieved 23 January 2011.
3Pedagogical considerations											Toggle Pedagogical considerations subsection																					3.1Hidden curriculum																											3.2Learning space																											3.3Learning theories																											3.4Distance learning																											3.5Teaching resource adaptation
Giroux, Henry and Anthony Penna. "Social Education in the Classroom: The Dynamics of the Hidden Curriculum." The Hidden Curriculum and Moral Education. Ed. Giroux, Henry and David Purpel. Berkeley, California: McCutchan Publishing Corporation, 1983. 100–121.
Learning sciences – Interdisciplinary field to further scientific understanding of learning
^ a b c d e Murphy, Patricia (2 September 2003). "1. Defining Pedagogy".In Gipps, Caroline V. (ed.). Equity in the Classroom: Towards Effective Pedagogy for Girls and Boys. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-135-71682-0.
Crappell, Courtney (2019). Teaching Piano Pedagogy: A Guidebook for Training Effective Teachers. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 160. ISBN 978-0-19-067052-8.
"The Schools Aren't Broken, They're Outdated". Teachers College - Columbia University. Retrieved 5 January 2023.
The meaning of the term "pedagogy" is often contested and a great variety of definitions has been suggested.[7] The most common approach is to define it as the study or science of teaching methods.[7][8] In this sense, it is the methodology of education. As a methodology, it investigates the ways and practices that can be used to realize the aims of education.[9][8][10] The main aim is often identified with the transmission of knowledge. Other aims include fostering skills and character traits. They include helping the student develop their intellectual and social abilities as well as psychomotor and affective learning, which are about developing practical skills and adequate emotional dispositions, respectively.[9][11][12]
Student-centered learning, also known as learner-centered education, broadly encompasses methods of teaching that shift the focus of instruction from the teacher to the student. In original usage, student-centered learning aims to develop learner autonomy and independence[44] by putting responsibility for the learning path in the hands of students.[45][46][47] Student-centered instruction focuses on skills and practices that enable lifelong learning and independent problem-solving.[48]
"Paulo Freire and informal education". Infed.org. 29 May 2012. Retrieved 12 November 2012.
Karl Rosenkranz (1848). Pedagogics as a System. Translated 1872 by Anna C. Brackett, R.P. Studley Company
American author and educator Carol Ann Tomlinson defined Differentiated Instruction as "teachers' efforts in responding to inconsistencies among students in the classroom." Differentiation refers to methods of teaching.[60] She explained that Differentiated Instruction gives learners a variety of alternatives for acquiring information. Primary principles comprising the structure of Differentiated Instruction include formative and ongoing assessment, group collaboration, recognition of students' diverse levels of knowledge, problem-solving, and choice in reading and writing experiences.[61]
^ "The Schools Aren't Broken, They're Outdated". Teachers College - Columbia University. Retrieved 5 January 2023.
His most famous work is the book “Looking after school: a critical analysis of personalisation in Education”, co-authored by Maarten Simons. He takes a critical look at the main discourse of today's education. Education is seen through a socio-economic lens: education is aimed at mobilising talents and competencies (p23). This is seen in multiple texts from governing bodies, in Belgium and Europe. One of the most significant examples is quoted on page 23:
Adult education – Any form of learning adults engage in beyond traditional schooling
Educational research – Collection and analysis of data in the field of education
^ "Johann Friedrich Herbart | biography – German educator". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 2 November 2015.
The education of pedagogues, and their role in society, varies greatly from culture to culture.
"Blueprint for government schools. Flagship strategy 1: Student Learning. The Principles of Learning and Teaching P-12 Background Paper"
This page was last edited on 5 February 2023, at 15:53 (UTC).
^ Petrie et al. (2009). Pedagogy – a holistic, personal approach to work with children and young people, across services. p. 4. Archived 15 March 2022 at the Wayback Machine
Coussée, Filip; Verschelden, Griet; Williamson, Howard (2009). The History of Youth Work in Europe: Relevance for Youth Policy Today. Strasbourg Cedex: Council of Europe. p. 96. ISBN 978-92-871-7244-0.
^ "The New Observer" (PDF). Justinwyllie.net. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 September 2012. Retrieved 12 November 2012.
^ a b c d e f Watkins, Chris; Mortimore, Peter (1999). "1: Pedagogy: What do we Know?". Understanding Pedagogy and its Impact on Learning. doi:10.4135/9781446219454. ISBN 9781853964534.
"Ezekre a tanári szakokra jelentkeztek a legtöbben [English: These Teaching Areas Proved The Most Popular]"
Change references to names, food and items to make them more familiar;
In Hungary, the word pedagogue (pedagógus) is synonymous with the teacher (tanár); therefore, teachers of both primary and secondary schools may be referred to as pedagogues, a word that appears also in the name of their lobbyist organizations and labor unions (e.g.Labor Union of Pedagogues, Democratic Labor Union of Pedagogues[57]). However, undergraduate education in Pedagogy does not qualify students to become teachers in primary or secondary schools but makes them able to apply to be educational assistants. As of 2013, the 6-year training period was re-installed in place of the undergraduate and postgraduate division which characterized the previous practice.[58]
2History											Toggle History subsection																					2.1Western																								2.1.1Socrates																											2.1.2Plato																											2.1.3Aristotle																											2.1.4Quintilian																											2.1.5Tertullian																											2.1.6Jerome																											2.1.7Jean Gerson																											2.1.8John Amos Comenius																											2.1.9Johann Pestalozzi																											2.1.10Johann Herbart																											2.1.11John Dewey																											2.1.12Paulo Freire																														2.2Eastern																								2.2.1Confucius
^ "Blueprint for government schools. Flagship strategy 1: Student Learning. The Principles of Learning and Teaching P-12 Background Paper" (PDF). Department of Education and Training Victoria. Archived from the original (PDF) on 15 February 2017. Retrieved 12 June 2017.
Bruner, J. S. (1971). The Relevance of Education. New York, NY: Norton
^ "pedagogy" Archived 1 May 2019 at the Wayback Machine. Online Etymology Dictionary.
^ Crappell, Courtney (2019). Teaching Piano Pedagogy: A Guidebook for Training Effective Teachers. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 160. ISBN 978-0-19-067052-8.
Pedagogy (/ˈpɛdəɡɒdʒi, -ɡoʊdʒi, -ɡɒɡi/), most commonly understood as the approach to teaching, is the theory and practice of learning, and how this process influences, and is influenced by, the social, political and psychological development of learners. Pedagogy, taken as an academic discipline, is the study of how knowledge and skills are imparted in an educational context, and it considers the interactions that take place during learning. Both the theory and practice of pedagogy vary greatly as they reflect different social, political, and cultural contexts.[1]
Substitute local texts or art (folklore, stories, songs, games, artwork and proverbs).[41]
Cognition and student-centered, web-based learning: Issues and implications for research and theory
Masschelein, Jan; Simons, Maarten (2 January 2015). "Education in times of fast learning: the future of the school". Ethics and Education. 10 (1): 84–95. doi:10.1080/17449642.2014.998027. ISSN 1744-9642. S2CID 144421815.
^ a b c d Anderson, Philip M. (2005). "3. The Meaning of Pedagogy".In Kincheloe, Joe L. (ed.). Classroom Teaching: An Introduction. Peter Lang. ISBN 978-0-8204-7858-6.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Compayré, Gabriel (1892). The History of Pedagogy. D.C. Heath & Company.
Distance Education Accrediting Commission. "CHEA-Recognized Scope of Accreditation." "CHEA: Directory of National Career-Related Accrediting Organizations". Archived from the original on 24 December 2016. Retrieved 4 November 2015.. April 2013.
"Pædagog" [Pedagogue]. UddannelsesGuiden (in Danish). Ministry of Children and Education. Retrieved 1 September 2019.
In Brazil, a pedagogue is a multidisciplinary educator. Undergraduate education in Pedagogy qualifies students to become school administrators or coordinators at all educational levels, and also to become multidisciplinary teachers, such as pre-school, elementary and special teachers.
^ Chesters, Sarah Davey (2012). The Socratic Classroom. Cham, Switzerland: Springer Science & Business Media. p. 35. ISBN 978-94-6091-855-1.
Macchelein, J.; Simons, M. (2021). Looking after school:a critical analysis of personalisation in education (1st ed.). Leuven: E-ducation, Culture & Society Publishers. ISBN 978-9-090106-59-5.
Be sensitive of local behavior norms (e.g. for genders and ages);
Shulman, Lee (1987). "Knowledge and Teaching: Foundations of the New Reform" (PDF). Harvard Educational Review. 15 (2): 4–14. Retrieved 12 June 2017.
Murphy, Patricia (2 September 2003). "1. Defining Pedagogy".In Gipps, Caroline V. (ed.). Equity in the Classroom: Towards Effective Pedagogy for Girls and Boys. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-135-71682-0.
Modifying materials needed – find, make or substitute required materials;
"pedagogy noun – definition in British English Dictionary & Thesaurus – Cambridge Dictionary Online". Dictionary.cambridge.org. 10 October 2012. Retrieved 29 October 2012.
Pedagogy is often described as the act of teaching.[2] The pedagogy adopted by teachers shapes their actions, judgments, and teaching strategies by taking into consideration theories of learning, understandings of students and their needs, and the backgrounds and interests of individual students.[3][4] Its aims may range from furthering liberal education (the general development of human potential) to the narrower specifics of vocational education (the imparting and acquisition of specific skills). Conventional western pedagogies view the teacher as knowledge holder and student as the recipient of knowledge (described by Paulo Freire as "banking methods"[5]), but theories of pedagogy increasingly identify the student as an agent and the teacher as a facilitator.
^ "Learning from Denmark". Taipeitimes.com. 22 March 2006. Retrieved 16 April 2021.
^ Kincheloe, Joe L.; Horn, Raymond A., eds. (2007). The Praeger Handbook of Education and Psychology. p. 552. ISBN 978-0313331237.
Empowering students for just societies: a handbook for secondary school teachers
Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi (January 12, 1746 – February 17, 1827), founder of several educational institutions both in German- and French-speaking regions of Switzerland and wrote many works explaining his revolutionary modern principles of education. His motto was "Learning by head, hand and heart".[22]
^ Chazan, Barry (2022). "What Is "Education"?". Principles and Pedagogies in Jewish Education. Springer International Publishing. pp. 13–21. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-83925-3_3. ISBN 978-3-030-83925-3. S2CID 239896844. Archived from the original on 12 May 2022. Retrieved 13 May 2022.
"The Meaning of the Concept of Education: Searching for the Lost Arc"
Ormrod, Jeanne (2012). Human learning (6th ed.). Boston: Pearson. ISBN 9780132595186.
Pedersen, S., & Liu, M. (2003). Teachers' beliefs about issues in the implementation of a student-centered learning environment. Educational Technology Research and Development, 51(2), 57–76.
Cook, DJ (2010). "Learning Setting-Generalized Activity Models for Smart Spaces". IEEE Intell Syst. 2010 (99): 1. doi:10.1109/MIS.2010.112. PMC 3068197. PMID 21461133.
^ a b c Peel, Edwin A. "pedagogy". www.britannica.com. Retrieved 15 August 2022.
"Learning from Denmark". Taipeitimes.com. 22 March 2006. Retrieved 16 April 2021.
Aristotle (384–322 BCE) composed a treatise, On Education, which was subsequently lost. However, he renounced Plato's view in subsequent works, advocating for a common education mandated to all citizens by the State. A small minority of people residing within Greek city-states at this time were considered citizens, and thus Aristotle still limited education to a minority within Greece. Aristotle advocates physical education should precede intellectual studies.[21]
"pedagogue" Archived 28 April 2017 at the Wayback Machine. Online Etymology Dictionary.
^ "pedagogy noun – definition in British English Dictionary & Thesaurus – Cambridge Dictionary Online". Dictionary.cambridge.org. 10 October 2012. Retrieved 29 October 2012.
Honeyman, M; Miller, G (December 1993). "Agriculture distance education: A valid alternative for higher education?" (PDF). Proceedings of the 20th Annual National Agricultural Education Research Meeting: 67–73.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k
Piaget, J. (1926). The Language and Thought of the Child. London: Routledge & Kegan.
Freire, P., 2018. Pedagogy of the oppressed. Bloomsbury Publishing USA.
^ Young, Lynne E.; Paterson, Barbara L. (2007). Teaching Nursing: Developing a Student-centered Learning Environment. p. 5. ISBN 978-0781757720.
Chesters, Sarah Davey (2012). The Socratic Classroom. Cham, Switzerland: Springer Science & Business Media. p. 35. ISBN 978-94-6091-855-1.
^ Hannafin, M. J., & Hannafin, K. M. (2010). Cognition and student-centered, web-based learning: Issues and implications for research and theory Archived 28 October 2020 at the Wayback Machine. Learning and instruction in the digital age (pp. 11–23). Springer US.
Howard Gardner gained prominence in the education sector for his Multiple Intelligences Theory.[62] He named seven of these intelligences in 1983: Linguistic, Logical and Mathematical, Visual and Spatial, Body and Kinesthetic, Musical and Rhythmic, Intrapersonal, and Interpersonal. Critics say the theory is based only on Gardner's intuition instead of empirical data. Another criticism is that the intelligence is too identical for types of personalities.[63] The theory of Howard Gardner came from cognitive research and states these intelligences help people to "know the world, understand themselves, and other people." Said differences dispute an educational system that presumes students can "understand the same materials in the same manner and that a standardized, collective measure is very much impartial towards linguistic approaches in instruction and assessment as well as to some extent logical and quantitative styles."[64]
^ a b Kincheloe, Joe (2008). Critical Pedagogy Primer. New York: Peter Lang. ISBN 9781433101823.
Empowering students for just societies: a handbook for secondary school teachers​
^ "Herbartianism | education". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 2 November 2015.
Kincheloe, Joe (2008). Critical Pedagogy Primer. New York: Peter Lang. ISBN 9781433101823.
Tabor, Sharon W (Spring 2007). Narrowing the Distance: Implementing a Hybrid Learning Model. Quarterly Review of Distance Education. Vol. 8. IAP. pp. 48–49. ISBN 9787774570793. ISSN 1528-3518. Retrieved 23 January 2011.
^ Vaughan, Dr Norman D. (2010). "Blended Learning".In Cleveland-Innes, MF; Garrison, DR (eds.). An Introduction to Distance Education: Understanding Teaching and Learning in a New Era. Taylor & Francis. p. 165. ISBN 978-0-415-99598-6. Retrieved 23 January 2011.
^ Eglossary, definition Archived 16 August 2018 at the Wayback Machine.Retrieved 5 April 2016
"pedagogy noun – definition in British English Dictionary & Thesaurus – Cambridge Dictionary Online"
Distance education or long-distance learning is the education of students who may not always be physically present at a school.[36][37] Traditionally, this usually involved correspondence courses wherein the student corresponded with the school via post. Today it involves online education. Courses that are conducted (51 percent or more)[38] are either hybrid,[39] blended[40] or 100% distance learning. Massive open online courses (MOOCs), offering large-scale interactive participation and open access through the World Wide Web or other network technologies, are recent developments in distance education.[36] A number of other terms (distributed learning, e-learning, online learning, etc.) are used roughly synonymously with distance education.
"Pedagogy definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary". Collinsdictionary.com. Retrieved 16 April 2021.
"Johann Friedrich Herbart | biography – German educator". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 2 November 2015.
"The New Observer" (PDF). Justinwyllie.net. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 September 2012. Retrieved 12 November 2012.
It is also possible to earn a master's degree in pedagogy/educational science from the University of Copenhagen. This BA and MA program has a more theoretical focus compared to the more vocational Bachelor in Social Education.
Anderson, Philip M. (2005). "3. The Meaning of Pedagogy".In Kincheloe, Joe L. (ed.). Classroom Teaching: An Introduction. Peter Lang. ISBN 978-0-8204-7858-6.
Griffith, M. (2010). The Unschooling Handbook: How to Use the Whole World As Your Child's Classroom (2nd ed.). New York: Prima Publishing (Random House). ISBN 978-0761512769.
Barnard, Henry; Pestalozzi, Johann (1859). Pestalozzi and Pestalozzianism: Life, Educational Principles, and Methods of Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi. FC Brownell..
4Pedagogical approaches											Toggle Pedagogical approaches subsection																					4.1Critical pedagogy																											4.2Dialogic learning																											4.3Student-centered learning
Saint Jerome (347 - 30 September 420 CE), or Saint Hieronymus, was a Christian scholar who detailed his pedagogy of girls in numerous letters throughout his life. He did not believe the body in need of training, and thus advocated for fasting and mortification to subdue the body.[21] He only recommends the Bible as reading material, with limited exposure, and cautions against musical instruments. He advocates against letting girls interact with society, and of having "affections for one of her companions than for others."[21] He does recommend teaching the alphabet by ivory blocks instead of memorization so "She will thus learn by playing."[21] He is an advocate of positive reinforcement, stating "Do not chide her for the difficulty she may have in learning. On the contrary, encourage her by commendation..."[21]
According to Patricia Murphy, a detailed reflection on the meaning of the term "pedagogy" is important nonetheless since different theorists often use it in very different ways. In some cases, non-trivial assumptions about the nature of learning are even included in its definition.[8] Pedagogy is often specifically understood in relation to school education. But in a wider sense, it includes all forms of education, both inside and outside schools.[13] In this wide sense, it is concerned with the process of teaching taking place between two parties: teachers and learners. The teacher's goal is to bring about certain experiences in the learner to foster their understanding of the subject matter to be taught. Pedagogy is interested in the forms and methods used to convey this understanding.[9][8]
John Amos Comenius (28 March 1592 – 15 November 1670) is considered the father of modern education.
^ a b Coussée, Filip; Verschelden, Griet; Williamson, Howard (2009). The History of Youth Work in Europe: Relevance for Youth Policy Today. Strasbourg Cedex: Council of Europe. p. 96. ISBN 978-92-871-7244-0.
Use the names and processes for local institutions such as courts;
"Why Paulo Freire's "Pedagogy of the Oppressed" is just as relevant today as ever"
Learning space or learning setting refers to a physical setting for a learning environment, a place in which teaching and learning occur.[32] The term is commonly used as a more definitive alternative to "classroom,"[33] but it may also refer to an indoor or outdoor location, either actual or virtual.Learning spaces are highly diverse in use, learning styles, configuration, location, and educational institution. They support a variety of pedagogies, including quiet study, passive or active learning, kinesthetic or physical learning, vocational learning, experiential learning, and others.
This article incorporates text from a free content work.Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 IGO. Text taken from Empowering students for just societies: a handbook for secondary school teachers​,UNESCO, UNESCO. UNESCO. To learn how to add open license text to Wikipedia articles, please see this how-to page. For information on reusing text from Wikipedia, please see the terms of use.
"What Is Differentiated Instruction? | Scholastic". Scholastic.com. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
In the Western world, pedagogy is associated with the Greek tradition of philosophical dialogue, particularly the Socratic method of inquiry.[18] A more general account of its development holds that it emerged from the active concept of humanity as distinct from a fatalistic one and that history and human destiny are results of human actions.[19] This idea germinated in ancient Greece and was further developed during the Renaissance, the Reformation, and the Age of Enlightenment.[19]
Paulo Reglus Neves Freire (September 19, 1921 – May 2, 1997) was a Brazilian educator and philosopher who was a leading advocate of critical pedagogy. He is best known for his influential work Pedagogy of the Oppressed, which is generally considered one of the foundational texts of the critical pedagogy movement.[26][27][28]
Large class size – consider smaller groups or have discussions in pairs;
^ Educational Guide – Denmark Pædagog – UddannelsesGuiden.dk Archived 27 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine.
"Howard Gardner". Harvard Graduate School of Education. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
Saint Helena / Ascension Island / Tristan da Cunha (United Kingdom)
Petrie et al. (2009). Pedagogy – a holistic, personal approach to work with children and young people, across services. p. 4. Archived 15 March 2022 at the Wayback Machine
^ Kenklies, Karsten (12 February 2012). "Educational Theory as Topological Rhetoric: The Concepts of Pedagogy of Johann Friedrich Herbart and Friedrich Schleiermacher". Studies in Philosophy and Education. 31 (3): 265–273. doi:10.1007/s11217-012-9287-6. ISSN 0039-3746. S2CID 144605837.
^ "What Is Differentiated Instruction? | Scholastic". Scholastic.com. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
Marcus Fabius Quintilianus (35 – 100 CE) published his pedagogy in Institutio Oratoria (95 CE). He describes education as a gradual affair, and places certain responsibilities on the teacher. He advocates for rhetorical, grammatical, scientific, and philosophical education.[21]
"Understanding Differentiated Instruction: Building a Foundation for Leadership". Ascd.org. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
^ "Ezekre a tanári szakokra jelentkeztek a legtöbben [English: These Teaching Areas Proved The Most Popular]". Eduline. 19 April 2013. Retrieved 27 May 2013.
Critical pedagogy is both a pedagogical approach and a broader social movement. Critical pedagogy asserts that educational practices are contested and shaped by history, that schools are not politically neutral spaces, and that teaching is political. Decisions regarding the curriculum, disciplinary practices, student testing, textbook selection, the language used by the teacher, and more can empower or disempower students. It asserts that educational practices favor some students over others and some practices harm all students. It also asserts that educational practices often favor some voices and perspectives while marginalizing or ignoring others. Another aspect examined is the power the teacher holds over students and the implications of this. Its aims include empowering students to become active and engaged citizens, who are able to actively improve their own lives and their communities.[42]
^ Cook, DJ (2010). "Learning Setting-Generalized Activity Models for Smart Spaces". IEEE Intell Syst. 2010 (99): 1. doi:10.1109/MIS.2010.112. PMC 3068197. PMID 21461133.
An important pedagogue in Belgium is Jan Masschelein. Schools nowadays are often called outdated or ineffective. Deschoolers argue that schools rest on the false premise that schools are necessary for learning but that people learn faster or better outside the classroom. Others critique the fact that some teachers stand before a classroom with only six weeks of teacher education.[49][50][51] Against this background, Masschelein and Maarten Simons propose to look at school from a different point of view. Their educational morphology approaches the school as a particular scholastic ‘form of gathering’. What the authors mean with that, is the following: school is a particular time-space-matter arrangement. This thus includes concretes architectures, technologies, practices and figures. This arrangement “deals in a specific way with the new generation, allows for a particular relation to the world, and for a particular experience of potentiality and of commonality (of making things public)”. [52]
The word pedagogy is a derivative of the Greek παιδαγωγία (paidagōgia), from παιδαγωγός (paidagōgos), itself a synthesis of ἄγω (ágō),"I lead", and παῖς (país, genitive παιδός, paidos) "boy, child": hence, "attendance on boys, to lead a child".[14] It is pronounced variously, as /ˈpɛdəɡɒdʒi/, /ˈpɛdəɡoʊdʒi/, or /ˈpɛdəɡɒɡi/.[15][16] The related word pedagogue has had a negative connotation of pedantry, dating from at leastthe 1650s;[17] a related expression is educational theorist. The term "pedagogy" is also found in the English discourse, but it is more broadly discussed in other European languages, such as French and German.[7]
^ Griffith, M. (2010). The Unschooling Handbook: How to Use the Whole World As Your Child's Classroom (2nd ed.). New York: Prima Publishing (Random House). ISBN 978-0761512769.
^ Ormrod, Jeanne (2012). Human learning (6th ed.). Boston: Pearson. ISBN 9780132595186.
^ Masschelein, Jan; Simons, Maarten (2 January 2015). "Education in times of fast learning: the future of the school". Ethics and Education. 10 (1): 84–95. doi:10.1080/17449642.2014.998027. ISSN 1744-9642. S2CID 144421815.
"Ezekre a tanári szakokra jelentkeztek a legtöbben [English: These Teaching Areas Proved The Most Popular]". Eduline. 19 April 2013. Retrieved 27 May 2013.
Bruner, J. S. (1966). Toward a Theory of Instruction. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Belkapp Press.
Rogers, C. R. (1983). Freedom to Learn for the '80s. New York: Charles E. Merrill Publishing Company, A Bell & Howell Company.
Learning theories are conceptual frameworks describing how knowledge is absorbed, processed, and retained during learning. Cognitive, emotional, and environmental influences, as well as prior experience, all play a part in how understanding, or a world view, is acquired or changed and knowledge and skills retained.[34][35]
^ "Paulo Freire and informal education". Infed.org. 29 May 2012. Retrieved 12 November 2012.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Definition of PEDAGOGY". Merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 9 January 2019.
Time available – shorten or lengthen the duration of activities;
Sima Barmania (26 October 2011). "Why Paulo Freire's "Pedagogy of the Oppressed" is just as relevant today as ever". Blogs.independent.co.uk. Archived from the original on 30 April 2012. Retrieved 12 November 2012.
^ Pedersen, S., & Liu, M. (2003). Teachers' beliefs about issues in the implementation of a student-centered learning environment. Educational Technology Research and Development, 51(2), 57–76.
"Blueprint for government schools. Flagship strategy 1: Student Learning. The Principles of Learning and Teaching P-12 Background Paper" (PDF). Department of Education and Training Victoria. Archived from the original (PDF) on 15 February 2017. Retrieved 12 June 2017.
^ Sima Barmania (26 October 2011). "Why Paulo Freire's "Pedagogy of the Oppressed" is just as relevant today as ever". Blogs.independent.co.uk. Archived from the original on 30 April 2012. Retrieved 12 November 2012.
UNESCO (2019). Empowering students for just societies: a handbook for secondary school teachers. UNESCO. ISBN 978-92-3-100340-0.
^ Giroux, Henry and Anthony Penna. "Social Education in the Classroom: The Dynamics of the Hidden Curriculum." The Hidden Curriculum and Moral Education. Ed. Giroux, Henry and David Purpel. Berkeley, California: McCutchan Publishing Corporation, 1983. 100–121.
Martin, Jane. "What Should We Do with a Hidden Curriculum When We Find One?" The Hidden Curriculum and Moral Education. Ed. Giroux, Henry and David Purpel. Berkeley, California: McCutchan Publishing Corporation, 1983. 122–139.
^ Rogers, C. R. (1983). Freedom to Learn for the '80s. New York: Charles E. Merrill Publishing Company, A Bell & Howell Company.
The academic degree Ped. D., Doctor of Pedagogy, is awarded honorarily by some US universities to distinguished teachers (in the US and UK, earned degrees within the instructive field are classified as an Ed.D., Doctor of Education, or a Ph.D., Doctor of Philosophy). The term is also used to denote an emphasis in education as a specialty in a field (for instance, a Doctor of Music degree in piano pedagogy).
Bruner, J. S. (1960). The Process of Education, Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press.
Eglossary, definition Archived 16 August 2018 at the Wayback Machine.Retrieved 5 April 2016
Space requirements – reorganize classroom, use a larger space, move indoors or outdoors.[41]
^ Tabor, Sharon W (Spring 2007). Narrowing the Distance: Implementing a Hybrid Learning Model. Quarterly Review of Distance Education. Vol. 8. IAP. pp. 48–49. ISBN 9787774570793. ISSN 1528-3518. Retrieved 23 January 2011.
Howell, Kerry E. (13 November 2012). "Preface". An Introduction to the Philosophy of Methodology. SAGE. ISBN 978-1-4462-9062-0.
^ Jones, Leo. (2007). The Student-Centered Classroom. Cambridge University Press.
^ Marshall, James D. (2006). "The Meaning of the Concept of Education: Searching for the Lost Arc". Journal of Thought. 41 (3): 33–37. ISSN 0022-5231. JSTOR 42589880. Archived from the original on 12 May 2022. Retrieved 13 May 2022.
^ "Understanding Differentiated Instruction: Building a Foundation for Leadership". Ascd.org. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
Plato (428/427 or 424/423 – 348/347 BCE) describes a system of education in The Republic (375 BCE) in which individual and family rights are sacrificed to the State. He describes three castes: one to learn a trade; one to learn literary and aesthetic ideas; and one to be trained in literary, aesthetic, scientific, and philosophical ideas.[21] Plato saw education as a fulfillment of the soul, and by fulfilling the soul the body subsequently benefited. Plato viewed physical education for all as a necessity to a stable society.[21]
^ Howell, Kerry E. (13 November 2012). "Preface". An Introduction to the Philosophy of Methodology. SAGE. ISBN 978-1-4462-9062-0.
Marshall, James D. (2006). "The Meaning of the Concept of Education: Searching for the Lost Arc". Journal of Thought. 41 (3): 33–37. ISSN 0022-5231. JSTOR 42589880. Archived from the original on 12 May 2022. Retrieved 13 May 2022.
Equity in the Classroom: Towards Effective Pedagogy for Girls and Boys
Chazan, Barry (2022). "What Is "Education"?". Principles and Pedagogies in Jewish Education. Springer International Publishing. pp. 13–21. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-83925-3_3. ISBN 978-3-030-83925-3. S2CID 239896844. Archived from the original on 12 May 2022. Retrieved 13 May 2022.
^ Freire, P., 2018. Pedagogy of the oppressed. Bloomsbury Publishing USA.
The pedagogue's job is usually distinguished from a teacher's by primarily focusing on teaching children life-preparing knowledge such as social or non-curriculum skills, and cultural norms. There is also a very big focus on the care and well-being of the child. Many pedagogical institutions also practice social inclusion. The pedagogue's work also consists of supporting the child in their mental and social development.[54]
Quintus Septimius Florens Tertullianus (155 - 240 CE) was a Christian scholar who rejected all pagan education, insisting this was "a road to the false and arrogant wisdom of ancient philosophers".[21]
"Education in times of fast learning: the future of the school"
Vygotsky, L. (1962). Thought and Language. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press.
Instructive strategies are governed by the pupil's background knowledge and experience, situation and environment, as well as learning goals set by the student and teacher. One example would be the Socratic method.[6]
^ Li, G., 2012. Culturally contested Pedagogy: Battles of literacy and schooling between mainstream teachers and Asian immigrant parents. Suny Press.
Educational Guide – Denmark Pædagog – UddannelsesGuiden.dk Archived 27 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine.
A hidden curriculum refers to extra educational activities or side effect of an education, "[lessons] which are learned but not openly intended"[30] such as the transmission of norms, values, and beliefs conveyed in the classroom and the social environment.[31]
In Denmark all pedagogues are educated at a series of national institutes for social educators located in all major cities. The education is a 3.5-year academic course, giving the student the title of a Bachelor in Social Education (Danish: Professionsbachelor som pædagog).[55][56]
6Pedagogues across the world											Toggle Pedagogues across the world subsection																					6.1Belgium																											6.2Brazil																											6.3Denmark																											6.4Hungary
To learn how to add open license text to Wikipedia articles, please see this how-to page. For information on reusing text from Wikipedia, please see the terms of use.
Pedagogy – a holistic, personal approach to work with children and young people, across services. p. 4.
"Multiple Intelligences Theory (Gardner) – Learning Theories". Learning Theories. 17 July 2014. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
