The Irish Army field artillery units are called regiments. They are divided into batteries and together the regiments form the Artillery Corps. Air Defence units are organised as a single regiment with individual batteries stationed around the country.
Hoffman, J. USMC: A Complete History. (2002) Marine Corps Association: Quantico, VA.
7United States											Toggle United States subsection																					7.1United States Army																											7.2United States Marine Corps
Historically, the United States Army was organized into regiments, except from 1792 to 1796 during the existence of the Legion of the United States. During this period the Army, or "Legion", was organized into four "sub-legions", 18th century forerunners of the modern combined arms brigade that combined infantry, riflemen, artillery, and cavalry. When combined with other regiments during wartime, for active field operations, regiments were further formed into brigades and divisions.
An illustrative example of this is the modular integration employed by the United States Marine Corps, which can take elements from its regimentally grouped forces and specifically tailor combined arms task forces for a particular mission or the deployed Marine Expeditionary Units (MEU). This is achievable partially because of the Marines mission adaptability, flexibility, philosophy, shared culture, history and overall esprit de corps, which allows for near seamless interoperability.[9]
The Special Forces Regiment (Airborne) is a special forces unit of the Philippine Army. It is based on and continually trains with its American counterpart, the U.S. Army Special Forces (Green Berets). It was established in 1962 by then Captain Fidel V. Ramos PA (INF) (first commanding officer of the SFR-A), primarily trained in both unconventional warfare operations and psychological warfare operations.
Further, the regimental system offers the advantage of grouping like units together for centralized administrative, training, and logistical purposes, thereby creating an "economies of scale" effect and its ensuing increased efficiency.
Armoured regiments in Canada since the end of the Second World War have usually consisted of a single tactical regiment. During the 1960s, three Canadian regiments had both regular and militia components, which were disbanded shortly after unification in 1968. Currently, one regiment is organised with two tactical regiments, 12e Régiment blindé du Canada and 12e Régiment blindé du Canada (Milice) are both part of the administrative regiment 12e Régiment blindé du Canada.
Most Indian Army infantry regiments recruit based on certain selection criteria, such as region (for example, the Assam Regiment), caste/community (Jat Regiment), or religion (Sikh Regiment). Most regiments continue the heritage of regiments raised under the British Raj, but some have been raised after independence, some of which have specialised in border defence, in particular the Ladakh Scouts, the Arunachal Scouts, and the Sikkim Scouts.
Disadvantages of the regimental system are hazardous regimental competition, a lack of interchangeability between units of different regiments, and more pronounced "old boy networks" within the military that may hamper efficiency and fairness.
The Artillery Regiment was used to provide fire support, but differed depending on whether it was part of a Motorised Rifle Division or Tank Division. The artillery regiment of an MRD consisted of three battalions of eighteen 2S3 Akatsiyas each and a battalion of eighteen BM-21 Grads, numbering just under 1,300 personnel total, while a TD artillery regiment had one less battalion of 2S3s and a little over one thousand personnel total. This was the standard model by the late 1980s, however not all artillery regiments had yet to conformed to it and one or more of the battalions might have used older weapon systems like the D-30 howitzer. Each regiment was led by a command control battery and included an artillery reconnaissance battery, motor transport company, maintenance company, regimental medical point, chemical protection platoon and supply and service platoon.[16]
"Sailors as Infantry in the US Navy". public2.nhhcaws.local. Retrieved 2022-08-14.
Before 1913, since the American Revolution, it was common practice for Marine detachments (both ship-based, and shore-based) to be combined to form provisional units. Most often these formations took the form of provisional battalions, but on occasion would become provisional regiments, provisional brigades, or rarely (especially when combined with Navy personnel) naval infantry brigades.[22] These organizations were intentionally temporary as the Marine Corps did not usually maintain standing forces larger than company size, but rather created "task units" on an "as needed" basis.
Marine Logistics Groups (MLG) contain two types of regiments; one Headquarters (HQ) Regiment (except in the Reserve 4th MLG) and two Combat Logistics Regiments (CLR). Each of these two types of regiments contain a Headquarters Company and varying numbers and types of logistics battalions and separate logistics companies, depending upon whether the regiment's primary mission is to provide direct support to (1) a Regimental Combat Team (RCT) or a Marine Amphibious Unit (MEU), or (2) provide general support across the Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF), including intermediate ground logistics support to Marine aviation units. These varying types of battalions and separate companies include: Combat Logistics, Maintenance, and Supply battalions, and Combat Logistics, Communications, Food Service, and Service companies (the latter three types in 3rd MLG only).
^ a b "Sailors as Infantry in the US Navy". public2.nhhcaws.local. Retrieved 2022-08-14.
Beginning in World War I, with the U.S. Marine Corps' participation with the U.S. Army in the American Expeditionary Force, in which the 5th and 6th Marines (along with the 6th Machine Gun Battalion) formed the 4th Marine Brigade of the U.S. Army 2nd Division, the Corps began organizing larger standing forces. World War I era USMC units mirrored equivalent U.S. Army units by employing the "square division" organizational plan in forming its regiments and brigades.
A regimental system, since it is decentralized and the regiments are independent from each other, prevents the army from staging a coup d'état. This is best exemplified by the British Army: since the formation of the United Kingdom, there have been no military takeovers.[7][8]
4Commonwealth armies											Toggle Commonwealth armies subsection																					4.1British Army																								4.1.1Armour																											4.1.2Artillery																											4.1.3Infantry																											4.1.4Corps																														4.2Indian Army																											4.3Irish Army
^ FM 5-34 Engineer Field Data. Department of the Army. 30 August 1999. Threat 2-11
^ p. 72 Westcote, Thomas A View of Devonshire in MDCXXX: With a Pedigree of Most of Its Gentry W. Roberts, 1845 – Devon (England) –
^ the word had common etymology with the Scandinavian fólk that in the ancient times meant something akin to a gathering of armed people
A regimental system can also foster close links between the regiment and the community from which it is recruited. This sense of community 'ownership' over local regiments can be seen in the public outcry over recent regimental amalgamations in the United Kingdom. On the other hand, recruitment from a single community can lead to a concentrated and potentially devastating local impact if the regiment takes heavy casualties.
In 1890, the number of companies in a regiment was reduced from the traditional ten to only eight, as the end of the Indian Wars became evident and troop reductions became in order. However, in 1898 as the war with Spain began, a three-battalion, 12-company structure was effected. This expanded regimental structure produced units, proportionally roughly the same approximate size as the single battalion, ten-company regiments of the Civil War. (For example: 101 officers and enlisted men per company, and a 36-member regimental headquarters, with 1,046 per typical Union Army infantry regiment in 1861, vs. 112 officers and enlisted men per company, and the same 36-member regimental headquarters, with 1,380 per regiment in a typical U.S. Army infantry regiment in 1898.) After the short war the Army reduced the size of companies, battalions, and regiments by about 30% under demobilization. However, the number of companies and battalions per regiment remained at 12 and three, respectively.
The Philippine Army currently has 3 regiments dedicated to special operations under the AFP Special Operations Command. They specialized in direct action, jungle warfare, urban warfare, special reconnaissance, unconventional warfare, psychological warfare, counter-terrorism, mass base and sniping operations against hostile positions depending on the situation of a certain place.
Chandler, David G., The Oxford History of the British Army. 2003. Oxford University Press.
In the British Army, for most purposes, the regiment is the largest "permanent" organisational unit. Above regimental level, the organisation is changed to meet the tasks at hand. Because of their permanent nature, many regiments have long histories, often going back for centuries: the oldest British regiment still in existence is the Royal Jersey Militia, established in 1337 although historically the Jersey Militia are referred to as a regiment it is disputed that they are in fact a corps. The Buffs (Royal East Kent Regiment), formed in 1572, was the oldest infantry regiment. It now forms part of the Princess of Wales Royal Regiment.[10]
The Indian Army has many regiments, majority of them infantry, with single-battalion cavalry and artillery regiments. These are a legacy of the British Indian army during the years when the British ruled India before 15 August 1947. Each infantry regiment may have one or more battalions, while cavalry, armour and artillery regiments are single-battalion formations. There are regimental headquarters (called as a centre) for each regiment.
A key aspect of the regimental system is that the regiment or battalion is the fundamental tactical building block. This flows historically from the colonial period, when battalions were widely dispersed and virtually autonomous, but is easily adapted to a number of different purposes. For example, a regiment might include different types of battalions (e.g. infantry or artillery) of different origins (e.g. regular or reserve).
While provisional regiments, designated variously as the 1st through 4th Regiments, had been formed for expeditionary operations in Panama (1895) and Philippines (1899),[22] the lineage of modern USMC regiments began in 1913 with the creation of the 1st and 2nd Advanced Base Force Regiments. These two regiments, (currently the 2nd and 1st Marines, respectively), along with the numerical forbearers of the 3rd and 4th Marines, (formed in 1914 for the short-lived Tampico Affair with Mexico, involving the occupation of Veracruz, Mexico), are the pre-World War I antecedents to the several regiments of the modern U.S. Marine Corps.
Current Marine infantry, field artillery, and combat logistics battalions are organized into regiments, commanded by a colonel. Marine infantry and field artillery regiments are sequentially numbered and are referred to generically as "Marines" or "Marine Regiment," as in 1st Marines (an infantry regiment) or 12th Marine Regiment (a field artillery regiment). Marine infantry regiments consist of a regimental Headquarters and Service Company (H&S Co) and three identical infantry battalions. Marine field artillery regiments consist of a regimental Headquarters and Service Battery (H&S Bttry), a Target Acquisition Battery, and from two to four field artillery battalions.
Administrative infantry regiments are composed of one or more battalions. When a regiment has only one battalion, the battalion may have exactly the same name as the regiment. For example, The North Saskatchewan Regiment is the only battalion in the administrative regiment of the same name. When there is more than one battalion, they are distinguished by numbers, subsidiary titles or both. In Britain, every infantry battalion bears a number, even if it is the only remaining battalion in the regiment (in that case it is the 1st Battalion, with the exception of The Irish Regiment of Canada, which has a 2nd Battalion only). Until after the Second World War, every regiment had at least two battalions. Traditionally, the regular battalions were the 1st and 2nd Battalions, the militia (later Special Reserve) battalion was the 3rd Battalion, and the Army Reserve battalions were the 4th Battalion, the 5th Battalion and up. A few regiments had up to four regular battalions and more than one militia battalion, which disrupted the numbering, but this was rare. For this reason, although the regular battalion today (if there is only one) will always be the 1st Battalion, the TA battalions may have non-consecutive numbers.
In the Commonwealth countries listed above, the large administrative regiment has been the normal practice for many years. In the case of India, "large regiments" of four to five battalions date from 1923 and, since the 1950s, many of these have expanded even further. As an example, the Punjab Regiment of the Indian Army has expanded from four battalions in 1956 to its present strength of 20, while, in the Pakistan Army, several regiments have over 50 battalions.
In practice, it is impossible to exercise all the administrative functions of a true regiment when the regiment consists of a single unit. Soldiers, and particularly officers, cannot spend a full career in one battalion. Thus in the Armoured Corps, the traditional administrative "regiment" tends to play more of a ceremonial role, while in practice, its members are administered by their corps or "branch" as in the Artillery. Thus soldiers and officers can serve in many different "regiments", changing hat badges without too much concern during their career. Indeed, in the artillery, all regiments wear the same badge.
It should, however, be noted that amalgamations beginning in the late 1950s and ending in 2006 have diluted the British regimental system through the now almost universal adoption of "large regiments" for the infantry of the Army. As of 2014, only thirteen line infantry regiments survive, each comprising up to six of the former battalions that previously had separate regimental status. Only the five Guards regiments retain their historic separate identities. Similarly, as of 2015, only eight of the regiments of the Royal Armoured Corps (cavalry plus Royal Tank Regiments) survive.
6Russian/Soviet Armed Forces											Toggle Russian/Soviet Armed Forces subsection																					6.1Motor Rifle Regiment																											6.2Tank Regiment																											6.3Artillery Regiment																											6.4Anti-Aircraft Rocket Regiment																											6.5Antiaircraft Artillery Regiment
The HQ Regiments (whose primary mission includes providing support to the MEUs) are not numbered; however, the CLRs are numbered according to their primary mission. Combat Logistics Regiments that support Regimental Combat Teams have the same number as the parent Marine Division of its supported RCT. Therefore, CLR 2 supports the RCTs of the 2nd Marine Division. CLRs that provide general maintenance and supply support to the MEF are designated by a two-digit number, the first digit is the Hindu-Arabic numeral equivalent of the MEFs Roman numeral designation and the second digit is always an arbitrarily assigned numeral "5." Therefore, the CLR that provides general maintenance and supply support to III MEF is CLR 35.
the word had common etymology with the Scandinavian fólk that in the ancient times meant something akin to a gathering of armed people
The regimental system is generally admired for the esprit de corps it engenders in its units' members, but efforts to implement it in countries with a previously existing continental system usually do not succeed. The system presents difficulties for military planners, who must deal with the problems of trying to keep soldiers of a regiment together throughout their careers and of administering separate garrisons, training and mess facilities. The regimental community of serving and retired members often makes it very difficult for planners to restructure forces by moving, merging or re-purposing units.
^ Cannon, John. The Oxford Companion to British History. 2009. Oxford University Press.
Each regiment of infantry is commanded by a colonel and assisted by a lieutenant colonel.[11]
In the British regimental system, the tactical regiment or battalion is the basic functional unit and its commanding officer more autonomous than in continental systems. Divisional and brigade commanders generally do not immerse themselves in the day-to-day functioning of a battalion – they can replace the commanding officer but will not micro-manage the unit. The regimental sergeant major is another key figure, responsible to the CO for unit discipline and the behaviour of the NCOs.
FM 5-34 Engineer Field Data. Department of the Army. 30 August 1999. Threat 2-11
The basic combat organization of the Special Forces is the 12-man Special Forces Team. An SF Team will have at least one of each SF MOS present in the team.
As the United States Army transformed after the Korean War for potential combat against a nuclear-armed Warsaw Pact, changes began in 1956 to transform infantry regiments into battle groups under its new Pentomic organization.[20] Under this plan, battalions were eliminated and the infantry battle groups consisted of an Headquarters and Headquarters Company, five rifle companies, and a combat support company. This scheme retained the regimental designation for lineage and heraldry purposes, but the regiment ceased to exist as an intact organization for both infantry and field artillery units. The Divisional Artillery were now composed of several unrelated artillery battalions.
In the 17th century, brigades were formed as units combining infantry, cavalry, and artillery that were more effective than the older, single-arms regiments; in many armies, brigades replaced regiments. Organisation and numbers did not follow any standardised pattern between or within armies during this period, with the only common factor being that each regiment had a single commander.[4]
Field Manual 100-2-3 The Soviet Army: Troops, Organisation and Equipment
several battalions, e.g.3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment (The Old Guard) andRoyal Regiment of Scotland; or
In Australia, there is but one administrative infantry regiment in the regular army: the Royal Australian Regiment, consisting of all seven regular infantry battalions in the Army. The Australian Army Reserve also has state-based infantry regiments which administer the reserve infantry battalions.
Flynn, G.J. (June 2010). "Lt. General" (PDF). Marine Corps Operating Concepts (Third Edition): 24. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 22, 2011. Retrieved May 4, 2013.
This page was last edited on 9 March 2023, at 18:34 (UTC).
From colonial times, the regiment consisted of a small regimental headquarters (regimental headquarters companies not existing before 1915) and in 1775 ten "line" companies, based on the British Army model, without any permanent intermediate level of organization, viz., battalion headquarters organic to the regiment. From 1776 through 1783 American infantry regiments contained from as few as seven companies (e.g. South Carolina Rifles) to as many as twelve (Pennsylvania Rifles and Maryland State troops) with Continental Army infantry regiments having eight companies (increased to nine in 1781). (Briefly, from 1790 to 1792, regiments were organized into three battalions of four companies each.) Traditionally, the regiment and battalion were one and the same, with the "battalion" simply being the regiment organized for battle.
A new system, the Combat Arms Regimental System, or CARS, was adopted in 1957 to replace the old regimental system. CARS uses the Army's traditional regiments as parent organizations for historical purposes, but the primary building blocks are divisions, brigades, and battalions. Each battalion carries an association with a parent regiment, even though the regimental organization no longer exists. In some brigades several numbered battalions carrying the same regimental association may still serve together, and tend to consider themselves part of the traditional regiment when in fact they are independent battalions serving a brigade, rather than a regimental, headquarters.
In the 20th century, by using modern industrial management techniques, the Army was able to draft, assemble, equip, train and then employ huge masses of conscripted civilians in very short order, starting with minimal resources. Beginning with the First World War, as units became increasingly larger, and weapon systems and equipment became more complex, the regiment, while still filling a role as the immediate headquarters for its organic battalions, began to be replaced by the brigade as the intermediate tactical and operational headquarters for battalions, with the division becoming the senior administrative and logistical headquarters for the battalions, regiments, and brigades under its command.
The "square division" consisted of two infantry brigades of two infantry regiments each, with each regiment containing a regimental headquarters company, a machinegun company, a supply company, and 12 rifle companies organized into three battalions of four rifle companies each. (The single machine gun company reported directly to regimental headquarters.) The division also contained an artillery brigade of three regiments and three separate combat service support regiments: engineer, quartermaster, and medical.
This is often contrasted to the "continental system" adopted by many armies. In the continental system, the division is the functional army unit, and its commander is the administrator of every aspect of the formation: his staff train and administer the soldiers, officers, and commanders of the division's subordinate units. Generally, divisions are garrisoned together and share the same installations: thus, in divisional administration, a battalion commanding officer is just another officer in a chain of command. Soldiers and officers are transferred in and out of divisions as required.
smaller than a standard battalion, e.g. Household Cavalry Mounted Regiment;
Bacevich, A.J. (1986). The Pentomic Error: The United States Army between Korea and Vietnam. Washington DC: National Defense University Press.
Over the years there have been fears that troops' allegiance lay more with their regiments and the regions/castes/communities/religions from which they were recruited, as opposed to the Indian union as a whole. Thus some "all India" or "all class" regiments have been created, which recruit troops from all over India, regardless of region, caste, community, or religion: such as the Brigade of the Guards (which later converted to the mechanised infantry profile) and the Parachute Regiment.
A regiment is a military unit. Its role and size varies markedly, depending on the country, service and/or a specialisation.
The French term régiment is considered to have entered military usage in Europe at the end of the 16th century, when armies evolved from collections of retinues who followed knights, toformally organised, permanent military forces. At that time, regiments were usually named after their commanding colonels, and disbanded at the end of the campaign or war; the colonel and his regiment might recruit from and serve several monarchs or countries. Later, it was customary to name the regiment by its precedence in the line of battle, and to recruit from specific places, called cantons. The oldest regiments which still exist, and their dates of establishment, include the French 1st Infantry Regiment (1479), the Spanish 9th Infantry Regiment “Soria” (1505), originally called Tercio de Nápoles),[2] the Swedish Life Guards (1521), the British Honourable Artillery Company (1537) and the King's Own Immemorial Regiment of Spain, first established in 1248 during the conquest of Seville by King Ferdinand the Saint.[3]
During the Civil War, there were nine new United States regular army infantry regiments (11th though the 19th) added to the ten already existing. The old regiments (1st through 10th) were single-battalion, ten-company regiments, but the new regiments were authorized three battalions of eight companies each.[19] However, only three of these nine regiments ever reached full strength of three battalions, with four others only achieving a manning level of two full battalions.Regiments were usually commanded by a colonel, assisted by a lieutenant colonel and a major, as well as additional staff officers and enlisted men in the regimental headquarters. Occasionally, a regimental commander would organize several companies into one, or rarely two, temporary organizations, called battalions, under command of the regiment's lieutenant colonel, major, or a senior captain. (A historic example of this arrangement is the 7th Cavalry Regiment during the Battle of the Little Big Horn in 1876.)
The historical background of the use of regiments in the United States Marine Corps (USMC) is contained within USMC: A Complete History [21] and a summary of that information follows:
By the beginning of the 18th century, regiments in most European continental armies had evolved into permanent units with distinctive titles and uniforms, each under the command of a colonel. When at full strength, an infantry regiment normally comprised two field battalions of about 800 men each or 8–10 companies. In some armies, an independent regiment with fewer companies was labelled a demi-regiment.[5] A cavalry regiment numbered 600 to 900 troopers, making up a single entity.[6] On campaign, these numbers were soon reduced by casualties and detachments and it was sometimes necessary to amalgamate regiments or to withdraw them to a depot while recruits were obtained and trained.
One administrative armoured regiment of the British Army consisted of more than one tactical regiment.The Royal Tank Regiment until 2014 had two (1 and 2 RTR), and once had many more.They were all amalgamated into a single regiment.
^ Mahan, J. and Danysh, R. Army Lineage Series, Infantry Part 1: Regular Army. (1972) Office of the Chief of Military History, United States Army: Washington, DC. p. 24.
In those armies where the continental system exists, the regimental system is criticised as parochial and as creating unnecessary rivalry between different regiments. The question is also raised as to whether it is healthy to develop soldiers more loyal to their regiment than to the military in general. Regiments recruited from areas of political ferment (such as Scotland, Wales, Ireland, Quebec, India, etc.), tend to perform particularly well because of the loyalty their members exhibit to the regiments. Generally, the regimental system is found to function best in countries with small-to medium-sized military forces where the problems of administering vast numbers of personnel are not as prevalent. The regimental system works particularly well in an environment in which the prime role of the army consists of small-scale police actions and counterinsurgency operations, requiring prolonged deployment away from home. In such a situation, co-ordination between regiments is rarely necessary, and the esprit de corps of the regiment provides an emotional substitute for the sense of public approval that an army receives at home. This is particularly relevant to British experience during the days of the empire, where the army was virtually continuously engaged in low-intensity conflict with insurgents, and full-scale warfare was the exception rather than the rule.
p. 72 Westcote, Thomas A View of Devonshire in MDCXXX: With a Pedigree of Most of Its Gentry W. Roberts, 1845 – Devon (England) –
the artillery units of the British Army are known collectively as theRoyal Regiment of Artillery, which is sub-divided for operation purposes into field regiments.
In many armies, the first role has been assumed by independent battalions, battlegroups, task forces, brigades and other, similarly sized operational units. However, these non-regimental units tend to be short-lived; and regiments have tended to retain their traditional responsibilities for ceremonial duties, the recruitment of volunteers, induction of new recruits, individual morale and esprit de corps, and administrative roles (such as pay).
These claims are contested on various points of precedence; see FAQ: Regiments, in general and especially: FAQ: Oldest Regiment in the British Army Archived January 13, 2008, at the Wayback Machine
Upon its inception, the Indian Army inherited the British Army's organisational structure, which is still maintained today. Therefore, like its predecessor, an Indian infantry regiment's responsibility is not to undertake field operations but to provide battalions and well-trained personnel to the field formations. As such, it is common to find battalions of the same regiment spread across several brigades, divisions, corps, commands, and even theatres. Like its British and Commonwealth counterparts, troops enlisted within the regiment are immensely loyal, take great pride in the regiment to which they are assigned, and generally spend their entire career within the regiment.
The Army reorganized in preparation for the Second World War by effecting its triangular division organizational structure in 1939. Under this plan, divisional brigades were eliminated and the division consisted of three infantry regiments and one artillery regiment, styled as "Division Artillery," but usually consisting of battalions of the same regiment. The infantry regiments still contained three battalions; there were now "headquarters and headquarters" companies (HHCs) not only at the regimental-level but in each battalion as well. The battalions still contained four "line" companies, but instead of four rifle companies, now had three rifle companies and a heavy weapons company (containing machine guns and mortars). The regiment's machine gun company was now an anti-tank company, the supply company became the service company, and a cannon company and a medical detachment were added to the regiment. In 1942 the Army began organizing armored divisions into combat commands, which grouped armor, armored infantry, and armored field artillery battalions into three tactical groups within the division without regard to regimental affiliation. However, armored regiment designations were retained for lineage and heraldic purposes.
^ Flynn, G.J. (June 2010). "Lt. General" (PDF). Marine Corps Operating Concepts (Third Edition): 24. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 22, 2011. Retrieved May 4, 2013.
an entire arm of service, e.g.the Royal Australian Regiment includes all of the Australian Army's regular infantry (other than reserve and special forces units), andthe artillery units of the British Army are known collectively as theRoyal Regiment of Artillery, which is sub-divided for operation purposes into field regiments.
In the United Kingdom, there existed until recently a number of administrative "divisions" in the infantry that encompassed several regiments, such as the Guards Division, the former Scottish Division (now a single regiment), or the Light Division (now also compressed into a multi-battalion single regiment). The reduction and consolidation of British infantry regiments that began in the late 1950s and concluded in 2006 has resulted in a system of administrative regiments each with several battalions, a band, a common badge and uniform etc.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
^ Christopher Duffy, pages 110 & 121 The Military Experience in the Age of Reason, ISBN 1-85326-690-6
5Philippine Army											Toggle Philippine Army subsection																					5.1Scout Rangers																											5.2Special Forces																											5.3Light Reaction Regiment
^ These claims are contested on various points of precedence; see FAQ: Regiments, in general and especially: FAQ: Oldest Regiment in the British Army Archived January 13, 2008, at the Wayback Machine
"El regiment más antiguo de Europa empezó siendo un tercio español y combatió contra Napoleón">El regiment más antiguo de Europa empezó siendo un tercio español y combatió contra Napoleón"
The United States Army Regimental System (USARS) was established in 1981 to replace the Combat Arms Regimental System, to provide each soldier with continuous identification with a single regiment, and to support that concept with a personnel system that would increase a soldier's probability of serving recurring assignments with his or her regiment. The USARS was developed with the intention that it would enhance combat effectiveness by providing the opportunity for a regimental affiliation, thus obtaining some of the benefits of the traditional regimental system.
the Royal Australian Regiment includes all of the Australian Army's regular infantry (other than reserve and special forces units), and
By 1965, the Army had eliminated the regiment (replaced by the brigade) under the Reorganization Objective Army Divisions (ROAD) plan as a tactical and administrative organization in all combat arms, save for a few armored cavalry regiments. However the battalion was restored as a tactical echelon, now organized into an HHC, three rifle companies, and a combat support company. The ROAD structure sealed the fate of the regiment in the U.S. Army, confirming its elimination as a level of command that had begun in 1942 with the "combat command" organization of the armored divisions and furthered by the Pentomic experiment in the 1950s. By 2015, the only Army unit still organized as a traditional regiment was the 75th Ranger Regiment.
Like the Scout Rangers, members of the Special Forces Regiment of the Philippine Army are also highly trained in counter-insurgency operations. Upon assignment to the Special Forces, soldiers are made to undergo the Basic Airborne Course. They, later-on, undergo the Special Forces Operations Course - an eight-month course that equips each SF soldier in the basics of Special Forces and unconventional warfare operations. Each member of the SF Regiment may opt to undergo specialty courses as well after finishing the Special Forces basic course. These include, but is not limited to, training in demolitions and bomb disposal (EOD), psychological warfare operations (PSYOPS), riverine operations including combat diving, intelligence operations, weapons, medics, as well as VIP security training in preparation for reassignment with the Presidential Security Group.
The Motor Rifle Regiment was one of the basic tactical units within the Soviet Ground Forces, totaling around 2,500 officers and other ranks. While normally operating as part of a Motor Rifle Division or Tank Division, it was capable of short-term independent operations. By the late 1980s, it consisted of a regimental headquarters in command of three Motor Rifle Battalions, each numbering around five hundred personnel and equipped with either BMP infantry fighting vehicles or BTR armoured personnel carriers, and one Tank Battalion, typically consisting of thirty-one T-64, T-72 or T-80 tanks, although older models were present in units outside the European theater. These were supported by a battalion of eighteen 122mm artillery pieces, either the self-propelled 2S1 Gvozdika in BMP regiments or towed D-30 howitzers in BTR regiments, though some BTR regiments also used the 2S1, with additional fire support from the organic mortar battery in each infantry battalion. Additional combat support came in the form of an air defence missile and artillery company with four SA-9 or SA-13s and four ZSU-23-4 or 2S6 Tunguskas, an antitank missile battery with nine BRDM-mounted AT-3 Sagger or AT-5 Spandrel launchers, a reconnaissance company mounted on BMPs, BRDMs and motorbikes and an engineer company. Other non-combat formations included a signals company, chemical protection platoon, material support company, maintenance company, and regimental medical point.[14]
United States Army (1991-06-01). Field Manual 100-2-3 The Soviet Army: Troops, Organisation and Equipment. Washington DC: Headquarters, Department of the Army.
The Tank Regiment was found in both Motorised Rifle Divisions and Tank Divisions, with slight organisational differences depending between the two. By the late 1980s, Tank Regiments operating as part of Motorised Rifle Divisions contained slightly over 1,100 officers and other ranks while those operating within Tank Divisions contained over 1,600. A regimental headquarters oversaw command of three Tank Battalions of thirty-one tanks each, typically T-64, T-72, or T-80 tanks although some units used older models, and an artillery battalion of eighteen 2S1 Gvozdika self-propelled howitzers, with some using the older towed D-30 howitzer. Tank Regiments operating as part of a Tank Division included a fifth combat battalion of motorised infantry, identical to those in BMP-equipped Motorised Rifle Regiments. Combat support and combat service support subunits were the same as in Motorised Rifle Regiments with the exception of the antitank missile battery.[15]
Until 1917, under its traditional triangular organizational plan, infantry regiments were organized into brigades of three regiments, with three infantry brigades (for a total of nine infantry regiments), along with one brigade each of cavalry and field artillery constituting a division. In 1917 the Army adopted the square division organizational plan, which massively increased the size of units from the company through corps, more than tripling, or nearly quadrupling, the number of troops per unit. (From 1915 to 1917, the authorized strength of rifle companies increased from 76 officers and enlisted men to 256, and infantry regiments grew from 959 to 3,720.)
Christopher Duffy, pages 110 & 121 The Military Experience in the Age of Reason, ISBN 1-85326-690-6
The President of the United States having called for a Volunteer Force to aid in the enforcement of the laws and the suppression of insurrection, and to consist of thirty-nine regiments of infantry and one regiment of cavalry, making a minimum aggregate of (34,506) thirty-four thousand five hundred and six officers and enlisted men, and a maximum aggregate of (42,034) forty two thousand and thirty-four officers and enlisted men, the following plan of organization has been adopted, and is directed to be printed for general information.
Cannon, John. The Oxford Companion to British History. 2009. Oxford University Press.
Many more additional regiments of the United States Volunteers were recruited from each state during the American Civil War according to General Orders No. 15., War Department, Adjutant General's Office, Washington, May 4, 1861:
^ Chandler, David G., The Oxford History of the British Army. 2003. Oxford University Press.
Some regiments recruited from specific geographical areas, and usually incorporated the place name into the regimental name (e.g. Bangladesh Infantry Regiment). In other cases, regiments would recruit from a given age group within a nation (e.g. Zulu Impis), an ethnic group (e.g. the Gurkhas), or foreigners (e.g. the French Foreign Legion). In other cases, new regiments were raised for new functions within an army; e.g. the Fusiliers, the Parachute Regiment (British Army), U.S. Army 75th Ranger Regiment, and the Light Reaction Regiment (Philippine Army) .
The modern British regimental system came about as a result of the 19th century Cardwell Reforms.
^ Hoffman, J. USMC: A Complete History. (2002) Marine Corps Association: Quantico, VA.
The regiments (Russian: полк)[12] of the Russian Army and armed forces influenced by Russia consist of battalions (Russian: батальон), in the infantry or tank troops, divizions (Russian: дивизион) in the artillery troops, and squadrons (Russian: эскадрилья) in aviation troops. Land forces regiments are subdivided into companies (Russian: рота) (or batteries in the artillery) and platoons (Russian: взвод). These also include many support units of either company or platoon size.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}VILLATORO, MANUEL P. (23 July 2014). "El regiment más antiguo de Europa empezó siendo un tercio español y combatió contra Napoleón">El regiment más antiguo de Europa empezó siendo un tercio español y combatió contra Napoleón". ABC. Retrieved 24 July 2014.
The Scout Rangers, known officially as the First Scout Ranger Regiment, specializes in anti-guerrilla jungle warfare, raids, ambushes, close quarters combat, urban warfare and sabotage. It was formed on November 25, 1950, under the command of former AFP Vice Chief of Staff and Defense Secretary Rafael M. Ileto. It was modelled after two legendary fighting groups, the intelligence gathering American Alamo Scouts and the combat ready US Army Rangers. It was also formed to combat insurgencies such as the Communist and Moro Rebellions. It currently have more than 2500 Members.
An Anti-Aircraft Rocket Regiment was an important part of a motor rifle division or Tank Division's effort to envelop the battlefield in an extensive air defence network. Numbering a little over five hundred personnel total, the SAM regiment consisted of a regimental headquarters in charge of twenty SA-6 Gainfuls organised into five missile firing batteries; most were SA-6a platforms although since 1979 a limited number of SA-6bs were also deployed and some regiments used the SA-8 Gecko as an alternative. Each missile battery, along with the regimental headquarter and missile technical battery, were also equipped with three MANPADs, either the SA-7 Grail, SA-14 Gremlin or SA-16 Gimlet. Besides the missile technical battery, other support subunits included an artillery reconnaissance battery, motor transport company, maintenance company and chemical protection platoon.[17]
All of a nation's artillery units are considered part of a single administrative regiment, but there are typically several tactical artillery regiments. They are designated by numbers, names or both. For example, the tactical regiments 1st Regiment, Royal Canadian Horse Artillery, 7th Toronto Regiment, RCA and many others are part of the single administrative regiment The Royal Regiment of Canadian Artillery. In Britain, the Royal Regiment of Artillery works in the same way.
By the end of the 17th century, infantry regiments in most European armies were permanent units, with approximately 800 men and commanded by a colonel.
The British Army also has battalion-sized tactical regiments of the Royal Engineers, Royal Corps of Signals, Army Air Corps, Royal Logistic Corps, and Royal Military Police.
On the march, a regiment normally travels in column along one or two routes, averaging 20–30 km/h when moving on roads or 15 km/h going cross-country.The main force is preceded by reconnaissance and advanced guards and protected on the flanks and the rear by security elements.When offensive operations begin, a regiment normally assumes attack formation about 1,000 metres from the enemy's position and attacks along a front typically 4 to 5 kilometres wide, but can vary between 3 and 8 kilometres.During the attack the average speed of advance is 200 metres per minute with BTRs or BMPs normally following 100 to 400 metres behind tanks and 50 to 100 metres of spacing between vehicles.[13]
Antiaircraft artillery (AAA) regiments in the late 1980s took the place of SAM regiments in divisions which were assigned to rear areas. These were equipped with twenty-four S-60 57mm Anti Aircraft Guns organised into four firing batteries. Each firing battery along with the regimental headquarters were also equipped with three MANPADs, either the SA-7 Grail, SA-14 Gremlin or SA-16 Gimlet. Additional subunits include a command and control battery and service battery.[18]
In the regimental system, each regiment is responsible for recruiting, training, and administration; each regiment is permanently maintained and therefore the regiment will develop its unique esprit de corps because of its unitary history, traditions, recruitment, and function. Usually, the regiment is responsible for recruiting and administering all of a soldier's military career. Depending upon the country, regiments can be either combat units or administrative units or both.
In the British Army and armies modelled on it (such as the Australian, the New Zealand, the Canadian, the Pakistani and the Indian), the term regiment is used confusingly in two different ways: it can mean an administrative identity and grouping, or a tactical unit. In the former Dominion of Newfoundland, "Regiment" was used to describe the entirety of the fighting armed forces, the Royal Newfoundland Regiment.
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
In Canada, the regiment is a formation of one or more units; existing almost exclusively for reasons of heritage, the continuance of battle honors and esprit de corps. The three regular force infantry regiments each consist of three regular force battalions of approximately 600 soldiers, in addition to one or more reserve battalions. Canadian battalions are employed tactically and administratively within brigade groups.
During the Second World War, the Marine Corps organized its regiments and divisions under the "triangular division" model developed by the Army in 1939. Modern USMC regiments and divisions continue to be organized using a triangular model very similar to the WWII version, with slight variations to adapt to modern weapons, equipment, and enlisted rank structure.
In Medieval Europe, the term "regiment" denoted any large body of front-line soldiers,[1] recruited or conscripted in one geographical area, by a leader who was often also the feudal lord in capite of the soldiers. Lesser barons of knightly rank could be expected to muster or hire a company or battalion from their manorial estate.
There are exceptions to USARS regimental titles, including the armored cavalry regiments (now defunct) and the 75th Ranger Regiment created in 1986. On 1 October 2005, the word "regiment" was formally appended to the name of all active and inactive CARS and USARS regiments. So, for example, the 1st Cavalry officially became titled the 1st Cavalry Regiment.
Find sources: "Regiment" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Mahan, J. and Danysh, R. Army Lineage Series, Infantry Part 1: Regular Army. (1972) Office of the Chief of Military History, United States Army: Washington, DC. p. 24.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}VILLATORO, MANUEL P. (23 July 2014). "El regiment más antiguo de Europa empezó siendo un tercio español y combatió contra Napoleón">El regiment más antiguo de Europa empezó siendo un tercio español y combatió contra Napoleón". ABC. Retrieved 24 July 2014.
The Light Reaction Regiment is the premier counter-terrorist unit of the Philippine Army. It was formerly known as the Light Reaction Battalion and Light Reaction Company. Due to its specialization in counter-terrorism operations and its formation with the assistance of American advisers, the Light Reaction Regiment has been sometimes referred to as the Philippines' Delta Force. It traces its origins back to the year 2000 when non-commissioned officers from the Scout Rangers and 1st Special Forces Regiment (Airborne) were trained by American military advisers from the 1st Battalion, 1st Special Forces Group.
With the widespread adoption of conscription in European armies during the nineteenth century, the regimental system underwent modification. Prior to World War I, an infantry regiment in the French, German, Russian, and other smaller armies would comprise four battalions, each with a full strength on mobilization of about 1,000 men. As far as possible, the separate battalions would be garrisoned in the same military district, so that the regiment could be mobilized and campaign as a 4,000 strong linked group of sub-units. A cavalry regiment by contrast made up a single entity of up to 1,000 troopers. A notable exception to this practice was the British line infantry system where the two regular battalions constituting a regiment alternated between "home" and "foreign" service and seldom came together as a single unit.
The Marine Corps deploys battalions from its infantry regiments to form the nucleus of a Battalion Landing Team (BLT) as the Ground Combat Element (GCE) of a Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU). However, a USMC infantry regiment may deploy en masse to form the nucleus of a Regimental combat team (RCT) or Regimental Landing Team (RLT) as the GCE of a Marine Expeditionary Brigade (MEB). In both cases the infantry component is reinforced with ground combat support forces including field artillery, reconnaissance, assault amphibian vehicle, light armored reconnaissance vehicle, tank, and combat engineer units. The resulting GCE is then combined with an Aviation Combat Element (ACE), a Logistics Combat Element (LCE), and a Command Element (CE) to form a Marine Air Ground Task Force (MAGTF).
In Pakistan, the word regiment is an administrative grouping. While individual battalions may have different roles (for example different battalions of the Frontier Force Regiment may be mechanized infantry, paratroop infantry, or mountain troops), the regiment is considered to encompass all of them.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Regiment" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Within the regimental system, soldiers, and usually officers, are always posted to a tactical unit of their own regiment whenever posted to field duty. In addition to combat units, other organizations are very much part of the regimental family: regimental training schools, serving members on "extra-regimental employment", regimental associations (retirees), bands and associated cadet groups. The aspects that an administrative regiment might have in common include a symbolic colonel-in-chief (often a member of the royal family), a colonel of the regiment or "honorary colonel" who protects the traditions and interests of the regimental family and insists on the maintenance of high standards, battle honours (honours earned by one unit of an administrative regiment are credited to the regiment), ceremonial uniforms, cap badges, peculiarities of insignia, stable belts, and regimental marches and songs. The regiment usually has a traditional "home station" or Regimental depot, which is often a historic garrison that houses the regimental museum and regimental headquarters. The latter has a modest staff to support regimental committees and administer both the regular members and the association(s) of retired members.
During the modern era, the word "regiment" – much like "corps" – may have two somewhat divergent meanings, which refer to two distinct roles:
The regimental depot of a regiment is its home base for recruiting and training. It is also where soldiers and officers awaiting discharge or postings are based and where injured soldiers return to full fitness after discharge from hospital before returning to full duty. Normally, a variety of regimental stores will also be kept at the depot. The regimental depot is not the same as the regimental headquarters (where the main officers' mess and certain central functions are based), though in practice the two will often be co-located in the same place.
A list of barracks in Britain and Ireland, either designated or newly built to serve as localization depots for infantry regiments in the wake of the Cardwell Reforms of the 1870s and the Childers Reforms which followed.[4]
No.1 (Eastern) Cavalry Depot later No.1 (Lancers) Cavalry Depot at Shrapnel Barracks, Woolwich (5th Royal Irish Lancers, the 9th Queen's Royal Lancers, the 12th Royal Lancers, the 16th The Queen's Lancers, the 17th Lancers and the 21st Lancers)
Strachan, Hew (1984). Wellington's Legacy: The Reform of the British Army, 1830-54. Manchester University Press. p. 214.
^ Strachan, Hew (1984). Wellington's Legacy: The Reform of the British Army, 1830-54. Manchester University Press. p. 214.
Imphal Barracks, York (Prince of Wales's Own (West Yorkshire Regiment))
Whittington Barracks, Lichfield (South Staffordshire Regiment & (The (Prince of Wales's) North Staffordshire Regiment)
Richmond Barracks, North Yorkshire (Princess of Wales's Own (Yorkshire Regiment))
No.4 (Western) Cavalry Depot later No.4 (Dragoons) Cavalry Depot at Newport Barracks (2nd Dragoon Guards (Queen's Bays), the 3rd Dragoon Guards, the 4th Royal Irish Dragoon Guards, the Carabiniers (6th Dragoon Guards), the 7th Dragoon Guards and the 6th (Inniskilling) Dragoons)
Pontefract Barracks (King's Own Light Infantry (South Yorkshire Regiment) & York and Lancaster Regiment)
Fenham Barracks, Newcastle upon Tyne (Northumberland Fusiliers & Durham Light Infantry)
^ Douet, James (1998). British Barracks 1600-1914. Swindon: English Heritage.
Upper Barracks, Winchester (King's Royal Rifle Corps & The Prince Consort's Own Rifle Brigade)
A list of barracks in Britain and Ireland designated to serve as depots for cavalry regiments.[5][6]
No.3 (Northern) Cavalry Depot later No.3 (Hussars) Cavalry Depot at Burniston Barracks (10th Royal Hussars, the 14th King's Hussars, the 18th Royal Hussars and the 20th Hussars)
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}James, Charles (1802). A New and Enlarged Military Dictionary, or Alphabetical Explanation of Technical Terms. London: T. Egerton.
No.5 (Southern) Cavalry Depot later No.5 (Hussars) Cavalry Depot at Horfield Barracks (3rd The King's Own Hussars, the 7th Queen's Own Hussars, the 15th The King's Hussars and the 19th Royal Hussars)
^ "Cavalry Depots". The Long, Long Trail. Retrieved 21 June 2016.
No.6 (Scottish) Cavalry Depot later No.6 (Dragoons) Cavalry Depot at Castle Park Barracks (1st King's Dragoon Guards, the 5th Dragoon Guards, the 1st Royal Dragoons and the 2nd Dragoons (Royal Scots Greys))
In the French Royal Army and Imperial Army, in addition to many of the empire's many puppet states, a dépôt was a battalion in size and would provided drafts to the regular 'field battalions' on a regular basis.If mobilised, the depot itself would become field battalion lead by the depot's 2nd in command, typically a senior captain.Each depot battalion comprised 4 x companies and was commanded by a Major.[7]
1United Kingdom											Toggle United Kingdom subsection																					1.1List of UK Infantry Regimental Depots in the 1880s																											1.2List of UK Cavalry Regimental Depots in the 1910s
Peninsula Barracks, Warrington (King's (Liverpool Regiment) & Prince of Wales's Volunteers (South Lancashire Regiment))
The Marquess of Anglesey (1982). A History of the British Cavalry 1816-1919. Volume 3: 1872 to 1898. London: Secker & Warburg. p. 123.
"Cavalry Depots". The Long, Long Trail. Retrieved 21 June 2016.
Hounslow Barracks (Royal Fusiliers (City of London Regiment) & The (Duke of Cambridge's Own) Middlesex Regiment)
Haythornthwaite, Philip (1983). Napoleon's Line Infantry. Long Acre, London, United Kingdom: Osprey Publishing. ISBN 978-1782007562. OCLC 1021805324.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}James, Charles (1802). A New and Enlarged Military Dictionary, or Alphabetical Explanation of Technical Terms. London: T. Egerton.
No.2 (Irish) Cavalry Depot later No.2 (Hussars) Cavalry Depot at Richmond Barracks, Dublin (4th Queen's Own Hussars, the 8th King's Royal Irish Hussars, the 11th Hussars and the 13th Hussars)
^ The Marquess of Anglesey (1982). A History of the British Cavalry 1816-1919. Volume 3: 1872 to 1898. London: Secker & Warburg. p. 123.
Frederick, J. B. M. (1984). Lineage Book of British Land Forces 1660-1978. Wakefield, United Kingdom: Microform Academic Publishers. ISBN 1-85117-007-3.
Le Marchant Barracks, Devizes (The (Duke of Edinburgh's) Wiltshire Regiment)
This page was last edited on 6 August 2022, at 13:28 (UTC).
Two months before the majority of the Security Troopers from 8SIR mark their end of two year full time national service, these security troopers from 8SIR shall undergo National Service Transition Training (NSTT) at Clementi Camp to train themselves to serve as Infantryman for their subsequent reservist training. Their Air Force and Navy Counterparts remain to serve as Security Troopers and Sea Soldier respectively for their subsequent reservist training. It may be of interest to note that Regimental Police used to be trained at the Military Police Training School (MPTS) & 2 PDF Training Centre before 8 SIR took on the role to raise Security Troopers for the SAF.
The working hours vary depending to operational requirements. They are easily identified by a black brassard with 'SECURITY TROOPER' in orange wording worn on their right arm.
This page was last edited on 12 March 2023, at 22:05 (UTC).
Soldiers who are selected to become Provosts are sent to undergo a 6-week training program which focuses on the education and training concerning Regimental policing tasks, which consists of the education regarding law and constitution, physical security, enforcement of discipline, maintenance of rules and management of military prisoners.[8] Provosts are also responsible to check visitors coming into a military base.
"THE HOUSEHOLD CAVALRY - ORDERS OF DRESS FOR SOLDIERS OF THE ARMOURED REGIMENT"
^ "Usai Ikuti Pendidikan Khusus Provost, 40 Prajurit TNI Siap Bertugas Lebih Profesional". Archived from the original on 11 October 2019. Retrieved 11 October 2019.
Most units at battalion level have a small Regimental Police detachment. In the Belgian forces, duties tend to be limited to providing access control and ensuring general base security during normal working hours, with special security teams taking over out of hours. Belgian Regimental Police belong to the unit that they police and wear a black brassard bearing the red letters 'RP' on the left upper arm together with a white webbing belt.[citation needed]
Members of a regiment's Provost Section can be identified by the brassards they wear, which carry the letters "RP".[6] Unlike Service Police, RPs carry no warrant card and have no powers of arrest greater than those of citizen's arrest. They are not police officers/constables/service police and serve no policing function.
Regimental police or regimental provost (RP) are soldiers responsible for regimental discipline enforcement and unit custody[1][2] in the British Army, other Commonwealth armies and some armed forces structured in the British tradition. They belong to the regiment or corps in which they enforce discipline rather than the Royal Military Police or its equivalent.
The Regimental Police (traditional Chinese:軍團警察) in the Royal Hong Kong Regiment was an internal policing force to provide security and law and order within the regiment.[citation needed]
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
"Usai Ikuti Pendidikan Khusus Provost, 40 Prajurit TNI Siap Bertugas Lebih Profesional". Archived from the original on 11 October 2019. Retrieved 11 October 2019.
^ "Army 'cannot detain drunk troops'". BBC. 3 November 2004. Retrieved 4 January 2010. Regimental Provost Sergeant Carl Veti said that since the Human Rights Act, the army could not detain a drunken soldier unless he committed an offence.
"The Deepcut Report" (PDF). I cannot remember whether it was Sergeant [B] or an RP [Regimental Provost] that punched him...Regimental Provost is also sometimes referred to as 'Regimental Police' but are concerned with provost and security duties within the Regiment and are not to be confused with the RMP.
^ "The Deepcut Report" (PDF). I cannot remember whether it was Sergeant [B] or an RP [Regimental Provost] that punched him...Regimental Provost is also sometimes referred to as 'Regimental Police' but are concerned with provost and security duties within the Regiment and are not to be confused with the RMP.
Properly called Regimental Provost Staff in the United Kingdom,[3] most Army battalions and regiments and the Royal Marines Commandos[4] have an RP section, usually headed by the Regimental Provost Sergeant,[5] who operates under the authority of the Regimental Sergeant Major (RSM). They are normally responsible for the maintenance of good order and military discipline, with all criminal offences being passed to the specialists of the Royal Military Police.
All Security Troopers are centrally trained and qualified by 8th Battalion, Singapore Infantry Regiment at Clementi Camp before the majority are being sent to the various Army camps all over Singapore to serve their duties as part the 8th Battalion Singapore Infantry Regiment (8SIR), while a selected minority are posted to the Republic of Singapore Air Force Force Protection Squadrons or the Republic of Singapore Navy Base Defence Squadrons to serve their duties. The Army and Air Force Security Troopers (ST) maintain the name Security Troopers. However, Security Troopers posted to the Navy are called Sea Soldiers to reflect the role they perform. At the core, regardless whether they continue to serve at 8SIR, or posted to Air Force or Navy, all these soldiers are Security Troopers. All Security Troopers undergo eleven weeks of training before they are qualified as Security Troopers.
Security Troopers work alongside Military Policemen from 8SIR. MPs have greater powers of arrest and detention. These MPs operate in a manner dependent on the local base security, carrying out normal duties within the unit according to their rank, or deployed solely to perform access control into the base at key entry points.
"THE HOUSEHOLD CAVALRY - ORDERS OF DRESS FOR SOLDIERS OF THE ARMOURED REGIMENT". Regimental Provost Staff Are to wear Combat Order - see Combat/Working Order (Winter), and Combat/Working Order (Summer) earlier - with a Regimental pattern RP armband on the right arm.
"Usai Ikuti Pendidikan Khusus Provost, 40 Prajurit TNI Siap Bertugas Lebih Profesional"
In the Sri Lanka Army, regiments and corps have Regimental Policemen (RP) assigned to soldiers to maintain discipline and security with bases and barracks. When serving as RPs, the soldiers will wear hackle, RP arm band, white leather/web belt, white anklets and cane of 18 inches in length per the regimental pattern.
Provosts are posted at the entrances of a military base and are identifiable by their white belts, white lanyards, and wear a dark blue brassard bearing the word "PROV" worn on their upper left sleeve. Soldiers who are selected to become Provosts are usually picked based on their big/tall posture, discipline, firmness, and attitude which can be dependent upon by the battalion/regiment commander in terms of implementing internal security and internal discipline enforcement. Soldiers who are caught red handed by Provosts conducting serious criminal offences are handed to the Military Police for further investigation.
Although not part of the Commonwealth, in the Indonesian National Armed Forces (TNI), the Regimental Police are known as "Provosts" or in Indonesian known locally as Provos which have the duties and responsibilities in the enforcement of internal discipline, law and order, and conduct access control for a battalion or regiment. They are separate from the Military Police because they have no authority outside of their battalion/regiment (except for certain situations).
"Army 'cannot detain drunk troops'". BBC. 3 November 2004. Retrieved 4 January 2010. Regimental Provost Sergeant Carl Veti said that since the Human Rights Act, the army could not detain a drunken soldier unless he committed an offence.
^ "Most Feared Soldier in Camp | Regimental Police | British Army". youtube.com. 9 December 2019. Retrieved 25 May 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
The roles of the Regimental Policemen (RP) in the Singapore Armed Forces are similar, in that they too enforce discipline and are responsible for the security of the base they are assigned to. The Regimental Policemen that once used to protect all camps and bases have been progressively replaced by Security Troopers. As of April 2011, all Regimental Policemen have been replaced by Security Troopers. These Security Troopers are better trained than the original RPs. Security Troopers are Operational Combat Soldiers with special Security Training. They are usually Full-time National Servicemen.
"Most Feared Soldier in Camp | Regimental Police | British Army"
^ "THE HOUSEHOLD CAVALRY - ORDERS OF DRESS FOR SOLDIERS OF THE ARMOURED REGIMENT". Regimental Provost Staff Are to wear Combat Order - see Combat/Working Order (Winter), and Combat/Working Order (Summer) earlier - with a Regimental pattern RP armband on the right arm.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Royal Military Police". www.army.mod.uk. Retrieved 10 March 2019.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Royal Military Police". www.army.mod.uk. Retrieved 10 March 2019.
Air Force RPs were once called Field Defence Troopers and Navy RPs, now Security Troopers, are still called Sea Soldiers. Theyare organized at the squadron level. After completing the RP training, they would proceed to a twelve weeks Field Defence Course (FDC), which includes rigorous physical and mental training, as well as teaching advanced security and fighting techniques before they were replaced by Security Troopers. They were trained in small arms, less-lethal weaponry and crew-served weapons. In the final theory exam in FDC, trainees must pass the Military Security Knowledge Exam (MSKE) in order to pass out. FD Squadrons are organized at the battalion level during wartime, and normally field reinforced company-sized units. This has all changed since the Security Troopers have replaced all RP. 8SIR now performs all the training mentioned less the context specific training and qualifies all Security Troopers for Army, Navy and Air Force.
"Most Feared Soldier in Camp | Regimental Police | British Army". youtube.com. 9 December 2019. Retrieved 25 May 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
In some Regiments/Corps, the role is now known as "Regimental Duties" and wear a "RD" brassard or shoulder patch.[7] The role is largely the same, but might more accurately reflect their role, as they are not service policemen, but more soldiers who work for the Regimental Sergeant Major (RSM) and are responsible for camp discipline and security, as outlined above.
Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. pp. 3–4. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
^ Littlejohn, David (1979). Foreign Legions of the Third Reich: Volume 1: Norway, Denmark and France. San Jose: R. James Bender. p. 199. ISBN 0912138173.
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. pp. 54–55. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
2Organization											Toggle Organization subsection																					2.1Current deployments																											2.2DINOPS, PCG and Commandos
Honneur et Fidélité is the motto of the Foreign Legion in the French Armed Forces inscribed on its flags from 1920.
^ Pages 47–49 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945, Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
In 1961, at the issue of the putsch, the 1st Mounted Saharan Squadron of the Foreign Legion[48] (French: 1er Escadron Saharien Porté de la Légion Etrangère, 1er ESPLE) received the missions to assure surveillance and policing.
Page 42 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945", Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
Technical and practical training (alternating barracks and field training) – three weeks.
The Foreign Legion's commander immediately dissolved the national battalions to improve the esprit de corps. Later, he also created three squadrons of lancers and an artillery battery from the existing force to increase independence and flexibility. The Foreign Legion was dissolved on 8 December 1838, when it had dropped to only 500 men. The survivors returned to France, many reenlisting in the new Foreign Legion along with many of their former Carlist enemies.
^ a b c d e f g h i
"Foreign Fighters Vow to Support Ukraine Against Russian Invasion". Coffee or Die Magazine. 24 December 2021. Retrieved 20 January 2022.
Beyond its reputation as an elite unit often engaged in serious fighting, the recruitment practices of the Foreign Legion have also led to a somewhat romanticised view of it being a place for disgraced or "wronged" men looking to leave behind their old lives and start new ones. This view of the legion is common in literature, and has been used for dramatic effect in many films, not the least of which are the several versions of Beau Geste. Three songs by Edith Piaf, most notably "Non, je ne regrette rien" (No, I regret nothing), became associated with the legion, during the 1960s when members of the Legion were accused of being implicated in a failed coup d'état during the Algerian War.[128] Today it is still a popular Legion "chant" sung when on parade, adapting it to their unique marching cadence of 88 steps to the minute. Various fictional portrayals and references to the legion have been made over the years, such as in film, television, music, video games[129] and art.
Jouineau, Andre (2008). French Army Volume 1: 1914. p. 58. ISBN 978-2-35250-104-6.
^ Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. pp. 127–128. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
In 2010 the service conditions of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation changed to allow foreigners. The actual term Russian "Foreign Legion" is a colloquial expression without any official recognition. Under the plan, foreigners without dual citizenship are able to sign up for five-year contracts and will be eligible for Russian citizenship after serving three years. Experts say the change opens the way for Commonwealth of Independent States citizens to get fast-track Russian citizenship, and counter the effects of Russia's demographic crisis on its army recruitment.[137]
Disciplinary Company of the Foreign Regiments in the Far East
The Foreign Legion uses gold coloured chevrons (chevrons d'ancienneté) pointed downward to indicate seniority. Worn by ordinary legionnaires and non-commissioned officers beneath the rank insignia and regimental emblem only on the left sleeve of the dress uniform,[92] each chevron denotes five years of service in the Legion. Seniority chevrons are not worn by commissioned officers.
Page 46 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945, Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
One of the biggest national groups in the Legion are Poles. Polish law allows service in a foreign army, but only after written permission from the Polish Ministry of National Defence.
Frederic Martyn, Life in the Legion: from a Soldier's Point of View (New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1911), pp. 83–84. Read online at archive.org
^ Martin Windrow, page 5 "Our Friends Beneath the Sands", ISBN 978 0 297 85213 1
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Le saviez-vous ? Les militaires aussi ont leurs saints patrons!". Ministère des Armées. 21 January 2022.
Colonial Counterinsurgency and Mass Violence: The Dutch Empire in Indonesia (Routledge Studies in the Modern History of Asia Book 99)
The Foreign Legion was created by Louis Philippe,[12] the King of the French, on 10 March 1831 to allow the incorporation of foreign nationals into the French Army from the foreign regiments of the Kingdom of France.[13] Recruits included soldiers from the recently disbanded Swiss and German foreign regiments of the Bourbon monarchy.[14] The Royal Ordinance for the establishment of the new regiment specified that the foreigners recruited could only serve outside France.[15] The French expeditionary force that had occupied Algiers in 1830 was in need of reinforcements and the Legion was accordingly transferred by sea in detachments from Toulon to Algeria.[11][16]Since 1831, the Legion has consisted of hundreds of thousands in active service at its peak, and suffered the aggregated loss of nearly 40,000 men[17] in France, Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Madagascar, West Africa, Mexico, Italy, Crimea, Spain, Indo-China, Norway, Syria, Chad, Zaïre, Lebanon, Central Africa, Gabon, Kuwait, Rwanda, Djibouti, former Yugoslavia, Somalia, the Republic of Congo, Ivory Coast, Afghanistan, Mali, as well as others. The Legion was primarily used to help protect and expand the French colonial empire during the 19th century. The Foreign Legion was initially stationed only in Algeria, where it took part in the pacification and development of the colony. Subsequently, the Foreign Legion was deployed in a number of conflicts, including the First Carlist War in 1835, the Crimean War in 1854, the Second Italian War of Independence in 1859, the French intervention in Mexico in 1863, the Franco-Prussian War in 1870, the Tonkin Campaign and Sino-French War in 1883, supporting growth of the French colonial empire in Sub-Saharan Africa, the Second Franco-Dahomean War in 1892, the Second Madagascar expedition in 1895 and the Mandingo Wars in 1894. In World War I, the Foreign Legion fought in many critical battles on the Western Front. It played a smaller role in World War II than in World War I, though having a part in the Norwegian, Syrian and North African campaigns. During the First Indochina War (1946–1954), the Foreign Legion saw its numbers swell. The Legion lost a large number of men in the catastrophic Battle of Dien Bien Phu against forces of the Viet Minh.
According to French law, the Foreign Legion was not to be used within Metropolitan France except in the case of a national invasion,[28] and was consequently not a part of Napoleon III's Imperial Army that capitulated at Sedan. With the defeat of the Imperial Army, the Second French Empire fell and the Third Republic was created.
In World War I, the Foreign Legion fought in many critical battles on the Western Front, including Artois, Champagne, Somme, Aisne, and Verdun (in 1917), and also suffered heavy casualties during 1918. The Foreign Legion was also in the Dardanelles and Macedonian front, and was highly decorated for its efforts. Many young foreigners volunteered for the Foreign Legion when the war broke out in 1914. There were marked differences between the idealistic volunteers of 1914 and the hardened men of the old Legion, making assimilation difficult. Nevertheless, the old and the new men of the Foreign Legion fought and died in vicious battles on the Western front, including Belloy-en-Santerre during the Battle of the Somme, where the poet Alan Seeger, after being mortally wounded by machine-gun fire, cheered on the rest of his advancing battalion.[35]
1er Régiment Étranger (1er RE), based in Aubagne, France (HQ, selection and administration, other specific missions)Pionniers Sections of Tradition
1991: Evacuation of French citizens and foreigners in Rwanda, Gabon and Zaire.
Hinshaw, Drew; Gauthier-Villars, David (15 January 2013). "France Widens Military Effort in Mali". The Wall Street Journal.
During the First Indochina War (1946–54) the Foreign Legion saw its numbers swell due to the incorporation of World War II veterans. Although the Foreign Legion distinguished itself in a territory where it had served since the 1880s, it also suffered a heavy toll during this war. Constantly being deployed in operations, units of the Legion suffered particularly heavy losses in the climactic Battle of Dien Bien Phu, before the fortified valley finally fell on 7 May 1954. No fewer than 72,833 served in Indochina during the eight-year war. The Legion suffered the loss of 10,283 of its own men in combat: 309 officers, 1082 sous-officiers and 9092 legionnaires .
"Les chants du 2e REG et des compagnies". Archived from the original on 3 October 2015. Retrieved 5 August 2015.
Education in the French language (reading, writing and pronunciation) is taught on a daily basis throughout all of basic training.
Pages 47–49 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945, Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
In the early 20th century the legionnaire wore a red kepi with blue band and piping, dark blue tunic with red collar, red cuff patches, and red trousers.[106] Distinctive features were the green epaulettes (replacing the red of the line) worn with red woollen fringes;[107] plus the embroidered Legion badge of a red flaming grenade, worn on the kepi front instead of a regimental number.[108] In the field a light khaki cover was worn over the kepi, sometimes with a protective neck curtain attached. The standard medium-blue double breasted greatcoat (capote) of the French infantry was worn, usually buttoned back to free the legs for marching.[109] From the 1830s the legionnaires had worn a broad blue woollen sash around the waist,[110] like other European units of the French Army of Africa (such as the Zouaves or the Chasseurs d'Afrique), while indigenous units of the Army of Africa (spahis and tirailleurs) wore red sashes. White linen trousers tucked into short leather leggings were substituted for red serge in hot weather.[111] This was the origin of the "Beau Geste" image.
^ a b Waller, Nicholas (26 February 2016). "American Ex-Paratrooper Joins Georgian Legion Fighting in Ukraine". Georgia Today. Archived from the original on 1 April 2020. Retrieved 3 February 2019.
Opérations extérieures (other than at home bases or on standard duties)Guyane (French Guiana) Mission de presence sur l'Oyapok – Protection – 3ème REI Protection CSG; 2ème REP / CEA; 2ème REI / 4ème compagnie[54]Afghanistan Intervention 1er REC / 3° escadron (1 peloton); 2ème REI / 4° compagnie OMLT; 2ème REG / 1ère compagnie[54]Mayotte (Departmental Collectivity of Mayotte) Prevention DLEM Mission de souverainetéGabon Prevention 2ème REP / 3ème compagnie – 4ème compagnie
Evan McGorman (1 January 2002). Life in the French Foreign Legion: How to Join and What to Expect When You Get There. Hellgate Press. ISBN 978-1-55571-633-2.
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 16. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
^ a b "More Majorum". French Foreign Legion. Général de division Jean Maurin Commandant la Légion étrangère (Képi-blanc Magazine).
^ Montfort, Robert (September 1987).Micheletti, Eric (ed.). "La Septième Compagnie indépendante: les volontaires français en Rhodésie" [The Seventh Independent Company: the French volunteers in Rhodesia]. RAIDS (in French). Paris: Histoire et Collections (16): 16–20.; Montfort, Robert (October 1987).Micheletti, Eric (ed.). "La Septième Compagnie indépendante: les volontaires français en Rhodésie (II)" [The Seventh Independent Company: the French volunteers in Rhodesia (part II)]. RAIDS (in French). Paris: Histoire et Collections (17): 28–31.
In the early 1960s, and besides ongoing global rapid deployments, the Legion also stationed forces on various continents while operating different function units.
^ "French Foreign Legion structure in 2018 | French Foreign Legion Information". Retrieved 2 March 2022.
Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. p. 1. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
After the 2014 Russian Annexation of Crimea and the succeeding war in the Donbass, the separatist states of Donetsk and Luhansk peoples republics had a manpower shortage in their army which resulted in a campaign to recruit foreigners who were ideologically aligned to Russia to come fight for them. this resulted in the formation of the Novo-Russia Foreign legion which was made as "the new French foreign legion"[138] and resulted in "Hundreds flocking"[138] to the Donbass to fight, prominent separatist figure and American, Russell Bentley or "Tex", stated that "We have Spaniards, we have guys from Colombia, India, Italy, France. I'm not the only American here either. There are also many Serbian fighters". Ukraine reported that in 2015 around 30,000[139] foreign fighters were fighting for the separatist with the main nationalities being Russian and Serbian, with westerners making up a minority of fighters. many of whom have faced prosecution upon returning to their home countries such as in February 2015 eight Spanish's nationals were arrested upon returning to Spain from the Donbass.[139]after the 2022 Russian Invasion of Ukraine it is unclear if this unit still exists.
The FAMAS assault rifle, a French-made automatic bullpup-style rifle, chambered in the 5.56×45mm NATO round. The FAMAS is being replaced by the Heckler & Koch HK416. The 13e DBLE, was the first French Army regiment to use the new rifle.
Sharpe, Michael. (2008) Waffen SS Elite Forces 1: Leibstandarte and Das Reich (p. 183) ISBN 978-0-7858-2323-0.
March Or Die: A New History of the French Foreign Legion
With the declaration of war on 29 July 1914, a call was made for foreigners residing in France to support their adopted country. While many would have preferred direct enlistment in the regular French Army, the only option immediately available was that of the Foreign Legion. On one day only (3 August 1914) a reported 8,000 volunteers applied to enlist in the Paris recruiting office of the Legion.
By the mid-1960s the Legion had lost its traditional and spiritual home in French Algeria and elite units had been dissolved.[41] President de Gaulle considered disbanding it altogether but, being reminded of the Marching Regiments, and that the 13th Demi-Brigade was one of the first units to declare for him in 1940 and taking also into consideration the effective service of various Saharan units and performances of other Legions units, he chose instead to downsize the Legion from 40,000 to 8,000 men and relocate it to metropolitan France.[49] Legion units continued to be assigned to overseas service, although not in North Africa (see below).
Jean-Denis G. G. Lepage (28 January 2008). The Foreign Legion: An Illustrated History. McFarland. p. 170. ISBN 978-0-7864-3239-4.
2e Régiment Étranger de Génie (2ème REG), based in St Christol, FrancePionniers Groups
3Composition											Toggle Composition subsection																					3.1Membership by country																								3.1.1Alsace-Lorraine																														3.2Countries that allow post-Foreign Legion contract
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. pp. 85–89. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
7Ranks											Toggle Ranks subsection																					7.1Non-commissioned and warrant officers																											7.2Commissioned officers																											7.3Seniority chevrons																											7.4Honorary ranks
^ "Rijksoverheid.nl". Archived from the original on 24 August 2014.
Lepage, Jean-Denis G.G. (2008). The French Foreign Legion: An Illustrated History. U.S.A: Mc Farland & Co. Inc. p. 60. ISBN 978-0786432394.
Martin Windrow (2010). The French Foreign Legion 1872–1914. Osprey. pp. 43–44. ISBN 978-1-84908-326-3.
Legio Patria Nostra (in French La Légion est notre Patrie, in English The Legion is our Fatherland) is the Latin motto of the Foreign Legion.[74] The adoption of the Foreign Legion as a new "Fatherland" does not imply the repudiation by the legionnaire of his original nationality. The Foreign Legion is required to obtain the agreement of any legionnaire before he is placed in any situation where he might have to serve against his country of birth.
DLEM: Honneur et Fidélité and Pericula Ludus (Dangers game – for the regiment To Danger is my pleasure of the 2nd Foreign Cavalry Regiment)
Littlejohn, David (1979). Foreign Legions of the Third Reich: Volume 1: Norway, Denmark and France. San Jose: R. James Bender. p. 199. ISBN 0912138173.
"2e Regiment Etranger de Genie (2e REG); Structure du 2ème Régiement Etranger de Génie"
Pages 38–41 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945, Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. p. 124. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
Honorary ranks have been awarded by the French Army to individuals credited with exceptional acts of courage since 1796. In the Foreign Legion, General Paul-Frédéric Rollet introduced the practice of awarding honorary Legion ranks to distinguished individuals, both civilian and military, in the early 20th century.
^ Page 46 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945, Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
Drew Hinshaw and David Gauthier-Villars (15 January 2013). "France Widens Military Effort in Mali". The Wall Street Journal.{{cite news}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
^ Okorokova, Lidia (25 November 2010). "Russia's new Foreign Legion". The Moscow News. Archived from the original on 5 April 2012. Retrieved 17 July 2011.
To support Isabella's claim to the Spanish throne against her uncle, the French government decided to send the Foreign Legion to Spain. On 28 June 1835, the unit was handed over to the Spanish government. The Foreign Legion landed via sea at Tarragona on 17 August with around 1,400 who were quickly dubbed Los Algerinos (the Algerians) by locals because of their previous posting.
It was in Mexico on 30 April 1863 that the Legion earned its legendary status. A company led by Captain Jean Danjou, numbering 62 Legionnaires and 3 Legion officers, was escorting a convoy to the besieged city of Puebla when it was attacked and besieged by three thousand Mexican loyalists,[25] organised in two battalions of infantry and cavalry, numbering 2,200 and 800 respectively.[citation needed] The Legion detachment under Danjou, Sous-Lieutenant Jean Vilain [fr], and Sous-Lieutenant Clément Maudet [fr][26] made a stand in the Hacienda de la Trinidad – a farm near the village of Camarone.When only six survivors remained, out of ammunition, a bayonet assault was launched in which three of the six were killed. The remaining three wounded men were brought before the Mexican commander Colonel Milan, who allowed them to return to the French lines as an honor guard for the body of Danjou. The captain had a wooden hand, which was later returned to the Legion and is now kept in a case in the Legion Museum at Aubagne and paraded annually on Camerone Day. It is the Foreign Legion's most precious relic.
In barracks a white bleached kepi cover was often worn together with a short dark blue jacket ("veste") or white blouse plus white trousers. The original kepi cover was khaki and due to constant washing turned white quickly. The white or khaki kepi cover was not unique to the Foreign Legion at this stage but was commonly seen amongst other French units in North Africa. It later became particularly identified with the Foreign Legion as the unit most likely to serve at remote frontier posts (other than locally recruited tirailleurs who wore fezzes or turbans). The variances of climate in North Africa led the French Army to the sensible expedient of letting local commanders decide on the appropriate "tenue de jour" (uniform of the day) according to circumstances. Thus a legionnaire might parade or walk out in blue tunic and white trousers in hot weather, blue tunic and red trousers in normal temperatures or wear the blue greatcoat with red trousers under colder conditions. The sash could be worn with greatcoat, blouse or veste but not with the tunic. Epaulettes were a detachable dress item worn only with tunic or greatcoat for parade or off duty wear.[112]
Disease and Empire: The Health of European Troops in the Conquest of Africa
The Foreign Legion's First Battalion (Lieutenant-Colonel Donnier) sailed to Tonkin in late 1883, during the period of undeclared hostilities that preceded the Sino-French War (August 1884 to April 1885), and formed part of the attack column that stormed the western gate of Sơn Tây on 16 December. The Second and Third Infantry Battalions (chef de bataillon Diguet and Lieutenant-Colonel Schoeffer) were also deployed to Tonkin shortly afterwards, and were present in all the major campaigns of the Sino-French War. Two Foreign Legion companies led the defence at the celebrated Siege of Tuyên Quang (24 November 1884 to 3 March 1885). In January 1885 the Foreign Legion's 4th Battalion (chef de bataillon Vitalis) was deployed to the French bridgehead at Keelung (Jilong) in Formosa (Taiwan), where it took part in the later battles of the Keelung Campaign. The battalion played an important role in Colonel Jacques Duchesne's offensive in March 1885 that captured the key Chinese positions of La Table and Fort Bamboo and disengaged Keelung.
Douglas Porch (1992). The French Foreign Legion: Complete History of The Legendary Fighting Force. Harper Perennial. ISBN 978-0-06-092308-2.
The Legion played a major part in the Rif War of 1920–25. In 1932, the Foreign Legion consisted of 30,000 men, serving in six multi-battalion regiments including the 1st Foreign Infantry Regiment 1er REI – Algeria, Syria and Lebanon; 2nd Foreign Infantry Regiment 2ème REI, 3rd Foreign Infantry Regiment 3ème REI, and 4th Foreign Infantry Regiment 4ème REI – Morocco, Lebanon; 5th Foreign Infantry 5ème REI – Indochina; and 1st Foreign Cavalry Regiment 1er REC – Lebanon, Tunisia and Morocco.In 1931, Général Paul-Frédéric Rollet assumed the role of 1st Inspector of the Foreign Legion, a post created at his initiative. While serving as Colonel of the 1st Foreign Infantry Regiment (1925–1931), Rollet was responsible for planning the centennial celebrations of the Legion's foundation; scheduling this event for Camarón Day 30 April 1931. He was subsequently credited with creating much of the modern mystique of the Legion by restoring or creating many of its traditions.
The image of the Legion as a professional and non-political force was tarnished when the elite 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment 1er REP, which was also part of the 10th Parachute Division played a leading role in the generals' putsch of 1961[43] and was subsequently disbanded.
"Le Boudin – Musique de la Légion étrangère (vidéo officielle)"
^ Jean-Dominique Merchet. "Secret Défense – La Légion étrangère s'accroche à ses effectifs – Libération.fr". liberation.fr. Archived from the original on 11 December 2014. Retrieved 6 November 2008.
The Foreign Legion played a smaller role in World War II in mainland Europe than in World War I, though it saw involvement in many exterior theatres of operations, notably sea-transport protection through to the Norwegian, Syria-Lebanon, and North African campaigns. The 13th Demi-Brigade, formed for service in Norway, found itself in the UK at the time of the French Armistice (June 1940), was deployed to the British 8th Army in North Africa and distinguished itself in the Battle of Bir Hakeim (1942). Reflecting the divisions of the time, part of the Foreign Legion joined the Free French movement while another part served the Vichy government. Germany incorporated German legionnaires into the Wehrmacht's 90th Light Infantry Division in North Africa.[38]
^ "Le chant du 2ème REI". legion-etrangere.com. Archived from the original on 30 June 2015. Retrieved 5 August 2015.
Main operations during the Algerian War included the Battle of Algiers and the Bataille of the Frontiers, fought by 60,000 soldiers including French and Legion paratroopers. For paratroopers of the Legion, the 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment (1er REP) and 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment (2ème REP), were the only known foreign active parachute regiments, exclusively commanded by Pierre Paul Jeanpierre for the 1er REP[43] and the paratrooper commanders of the 2ème REP.[45] The remainder of French paratrooper units of the French Armed Forces were commanded by Jacques Massu, Buchond, Marcel Bigeard, Paul Aussaresses. Other Legion offensives in the mountains in 1959 included operations Jumelles, Cigales, and Ariège in the Aures and the last in Kabylie.[43]
Martin Windrow, page 5 "Our Friends Beneath the Sands", ISBN 978 0 297 85213 1
4th Foreign Regiment, Code d'honneur du Légionnaire, archived from the original on 28 September 2015, retrieved 5 August 2015
"Ranks | French Foreign Legion Information". Retrieved 29 January 2022.
For having rallied to the generals' putsch of April 1961, the 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment of the 10th Parachute Division was dissolved on 30 April 1961 at Zeralda.
The Georgian Legion was formedfighting on the side of Ukraine in the War in Donbas and the Russo-Ukrainian War.[143] The unit was organized in 2014,[144] and in 2016 it was transferred under the control of the Ukrainian Army, under the 25th Mechanized Infantry Battalion "Kyiv Rus".[145] Although formed by mostly ethnic Georgian volunteers, and commanded by veteran Georgian officer Mamuka Mamulashvili,[146][144] the legion was noted as being particularly good at recruiting Americans;[147] before the formation of the International Legion of Ukraine in 2022, most foreign fighters served the Georgian Legion.[148]
^ "Notice descriptive des nouveaux uniformes. (Décision ministérielle du 9 décembre 1914 mise à jour avec le modificatif du 28 janvier 1915)" (in French). Paris: Ministère de la Guerre. 1915. Retrieved 30 July 2021 – via Bibliothèque Nationale de France.
2ème REP Commando Parachute Group (GCP); Pathfinders qualified in Direct Actions, Special Reconnaissance and IMEX.
"Who Are the Americans Who Went to Fight in Ukraine?"
^ Pages 26–29 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945, Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
^ a b Madrid, Agence France-Presse in (27 February 2015). "Spain arrests eight nationals for fighting with pro-Russia separatists in Ukraine". the Guardian. Retrieved 19 January 2023.
"Exclusive: So many Canadian fighters in Ukraine, they have their own battalion, source says"
The Legion force, made up of 27 different nationalities, was attached to the French 6th Light Armoured Division whose mission was to protect the Coalition's left flank.[50]
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 75. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
In late 1831, the first legionnaires landed in Algeria, the country that would be the Foreign Legion's homeland for 130 years and shape its character. The early years in Algeria were hard on the legion because it was often sent to the worst postings and received the worst assignments, and its members were generally uninterested in the new colony of the French.[20] The Legion served alongside the Battalions of Light Infantry of Africa, formed in 1832, which was a penal military unit made up of men with prison records who still had to do their military service or soldiers with serious disciplinary problems.
The legionnaires are an integral part of the French Army. Today, they constitute some 7–8% of its strength (or 11% of the Ground Operational Forces, FOT, French Army operational units).[56]
Moses, Dirk (2014). Colonial Counterinsurgency and Mass Violence: The Dutch Empire in Indonesia (Routledge Studies in the Modern History of Asia Book 99). Taylor & Francis. ISBN 9781317663157.
^ "Foreign Legion Command | French Foreign Legion Information". Retrieved 29 January 2022.
"Foreign Legion Command | French Foreign Legion Information". Retrieved 29 January 2022.
^ Moses, Dirk (2014). Colonial Counterinsurgency and Mass Violence: The Dutch Empire in Indonesia (Routledge Studies in the Modern History of Asia Book 99). Taylor & Francis. ISBN 9781317663157.
^ Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. pp. 11–13. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
1er Régiment Étranger de Génie 1er REG; Parachute Underwater Demolition P.C.G Teams (Combat Engineer Divers, French: Plongeurs Commando group), DINOPS Teams of Nautical Subaquatic Intervention Operational Detachment (French: Détachement d'Intervention Nautique Operationnelle Subaquatique).
^ "Chant du régiment". Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 5 August 2015.
^ Abbott, Peter; Botham, Philip (June 1986). Modern African Wars: Rhodesia, 1965–80. Oxford: Osprey Publishing. p. 17. ISBN 978-0-85045-728-5.
Windrow, Martin (2013). The Foreign Legion. Osprey Publishing Ltd. ISBN 978-1-4728-0636-9. OCLC 881163349.
^ Shortly before his death, Seeger wrote, "I have a rendez-vous with Death, at some disputed barricade. ... And I to my pledged word am true, I shall not fail that rendezvous."
Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "Remise Képi Blanc". YouTube.
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
Basic training for the Foreign Legion is conducted in the 4th Foreign Regiment. This is an operational combat regiment which provides a training course of 15–17 weeks, before recruits are assigned to their operational units:
Pages 26–29 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945, Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
^ "Wetten.nl – Wet- en regelgeving – Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap – BWBR0003738". overheid.nl.
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. pp. 85–89. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
^ a b "Officier servant à titre étranger". French Foreign Legion. 2 December 2016.
^ Lepage, Jean-Denis G.G. (2008). The French Foreign Legion: An Illustrated History. U.S.A: Mc Farland & Co. Inc. p. 60. ISBN 978-0786432394.
^ Jouineau, Andre (2009). Officers and Soldiers of the French Army Volume 2: 1915–18. pp. 54 & 55. ISBN 978-2-35250-105-3.
^ Porch, Douglas (1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. London: Macmillan. ISBN 0-333-43427-7
Created to fight "outside mainland France", the Foreign Legion was stationed in Algeria, where it took part in the pacification and development of the colony, notably by drying the marshes in the region of Algiers. The Foreign Legion was initially divided into six "national battalions" (Swiss, Poles, Germans, Italians, Spanish, and Dutch-Belgian).[19] Smaller national groups, such as the ten Englishmen recorded in December 1832, appear to have been placed randomly.
All volunteers in the Foreign Legion begin their careers as basic legionnaires with one in four eventually becoming a sous-officier (non-commissioned officer).[86] On joining, a new recruit receives a monthly salary of €1,380 in addition to food and lodgings.[87] He is also given his own new rifle, which according to the lore of the Legion must never be left on a battlefield.[11] Promotion is concurrent with the ranks in the French Army.
Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. p. 14. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
^ AuPasCamarade (8 October 2012). "Légion Etrangère – Le salut au Caïd". Archived from the original on 11 December 2021 – via YouTube.
^ a b c Musique de la Légion étrangère (16 April 2013). "Le Boudin – Musique de la Légion étrangère (vidéo officielle)". Archived from the original on 11 December 2021 – via YouTube.
Mayotte (Departmental Collectivity of Mayotte) Prevention DLEM Mission de souveraineté
The HK416F is the new service rifle of the French Armed Forces.
During World War II the Foreign Legion wore a wide range of uniform styles depending on supply sources. These ranged from the heavy capotes and Adrian helmets of 1940 through to British battledress and American field uniforms from 1943 to 1945. The white kepi was stubbornly retained whenever possible.
^ "Les chants du 1er RE et des compagnies". Archived from the original on 3 October 2015. Retrieved 5 August 2015.
In the European Union framework, post Legion enlistment is less clear. Denmark, Norway, Germany and Portugal allow post-Legion enlistment while The Netherlands has constitutional articles that forbid it. [Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, Artikel 15, lid 1e, (In Dutch:)[67]] (that is: one can lose his Dutch nationality by accepting a foreign nationality or can lose his Dutch nationality by serving in the army of a foreign state that is engaged in a conflict against the Dutch Kingdom or one of its allies[clarification needed][68]). The European Union twin threads seem to be recognized dual nationality status or restricting constitutional article.
Porch, Douglas (1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. London: Macmillan. ISBN 0-333-43427-7
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 58. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
Jean., Des Vallières (1963). Et voici la Legion Etrangere. Éditions André Bonne. OCLC 155659405.; Anthony Clayton, "France, Soldiers, and Africa," Brassey's, 1988.
While the Foreign Legion historically did not accept women in its ranks, there was one official female member, Susan Travers, an Englishwoman who joined Free French Forces during World War II and became a member of the Foreign Legion after the war, serving in Vietnam during the First Indochina War.[59] Women were barred from service until 2000.[61]
Musique de la Légion étrangère (16 April 2013). "Le Boudin – Musique de la Légion étrangère (vidéo officielle)". Archived from the original on 11 December 2021 – via YouTube.
"Secret Défense – La Légion étrangère s'accroche à ses effectifs – Libération.fr"
"French Foreign Legion structure in 2018 | French Foreign Legion Information"
^ "Les chants du 1er RE et des compagnies: Les Képis Blancs". Archived from the original on 18 September 2016. Retrieved 5 August 2015.
"Notice descriptive des nouveaux uniformes. (Décision ministérielle du 9 décembre 1914 mise à jour avec le modificatif du 28 janvier 1915)" (in French). Paris: Ministère de la Guerre. 1915. Retrieved 30 July 2021 – via Bibliothèque Nationale de France.
The annexation of Alsace and Lorraine by Germany in 1871 led to numerous volunteers from the two regions enlisting in the Foreign Legion, which gave them the option of French citizenship at the end of their service.[34]
The regiments are now mainly stationed in Metropolitan France, with some units in the overseas departments and territories (mainly in French Guiana).[52]
^ "Ranks | French Foreign Legion Information". Retrieved 29 January 2022.
TheMarches09 (8 February 2010). "Marche de la Légion / Le Boudin". Archived from the original on 11 December 2021 – via YouTube.
"French Foreign Legion structure in 2018 | French Foreign Legion Information". Retrieved 2 March 2022.
The monument to the Legionnaires at Aubagne. The gold portions of the globe mark countries where the legion has previously been deployed. It is inscribed La Legion A Ses Morts (From The Legion to its dead)
Moudjahid, El (3 May 2018), "La Légion étrangère démoralisée", Écrits sur l'aliénation et la liberté, La Découverte, pp. 557–564, doi:10.3917/dec.fanon.2018.01.0557, ISBN 9782348036262, retrieved 28 February 2022
Contrary to popular belief, the adoption of the Foreign Legion's slow marching speed was not due to a need to preserve energy and fluids during long marches under the hot Algerian sun. Its exact origins are unclear, but the official explanation is that although the pace regulation does not seem to have been instituted before 1945, it hails back to the slow marching pace of the Ancien Régime, and its reintroduction was a "return to traditional roots".[96] This was in fact, the march step of the Foreign Legion's ancestor units – the Régiments Étrangers or Foreign Regiments of the Ancien Régime French Army, the Grande Armée's foreign units, and the pre-1831 foreign regiments.
"History of the 2e REP, the 1st Foreign Parachute Battalion 1er Bataillon Etranger de Parachutistes"
"..:: ---> LA LEGIÓN - ENTRA EN LA LEYENDA". 23 December 2005. Archived from the original on 23 December 2005. Retrieved 2 May 2022.
The Ever Victorious Army was the name given to a Chinese imperial army in the late 19th century. Commanded by Frederick Townsend Ward, the new force originally comprised about 200 mostly European mercenaries, recruited in the Shanghai area from sailors, deserters and adventurers. Many were dismissed in the summer of 1861, but the remainder became the officers of the Chinese soldiers recruited mainly in and around Sungkiang (Songjiang). The Chinese troops were increased to 3,000 by May 1862, all equipped with Western firearms and equipment by the British authorities in Shanghai. Throughout its four-year existence the Ever Victorious Army was mainly to operate within a thirty-mile radius of Shanghai. It was disbanded in May 1864 with 104 foreign officers and 2,288 Chinese soldiers being paid off. The bulk of the artillery and some infantry transferred to the Chinese Imperial forces. It was the first Chinese army trained in European techniques, tactics, and strategy.
Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. p. 422. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
Windrow, Martin (26 March 1999). French Foreign Legion 1814–1945. p. 42. ISBN 1-85532-761-9.
The Legion acquired its parade song "Non, je ne regrette rien" ("No, I regret nothing"), a 1960 Édith Piaf song sung by Sous-Officiers and legionnaires as they left their barracks for re-deployment following the Algiers putsch of 1961. The song has remained a part of Legion heritage since.
In response to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the government of Ukraine quickly established a component of its Territorial Defense Forces consisting of volunteers from foreign countries.[149] Within the International Legion, some single nationality battalions were established to avoid language barriers in order to facilitate their rapid response to the invasion.[150]
Coming out of a difficult Indochinese conflict, the Foreign Legion reinforced cohesion by extending the duration of basic training. Efforts exerted were successful during this transit; however, entering into December 1960 and the generals' putsch, a crisis hit the legion putting its faith at the corps of the Army.[47]
"The Georgians of Ukraine. Who are they? • Ukraїner ∙ Expedition through Ukraine!"
Regarding recruitment conditions within the Foreign Legion, see the official page (in English) dedicated to the subject:[66] With regard to age limits, recruits can be accepted from ages ranging from 17 ½ (with parental consent) to 39.5 years old.
Tibor Szecsko (1991). Le grand livre des insignes de la Légion étrangère. ISBN 978-2-9505938-0-1.
The Legion is basically equipped with the same equipment as similar units elsewhere in the French Army. These include:
Mamady Doumbouya – Guinean military officer who led the 2021 Guinean coup d'état and is currently Guinea's head of state acting as the Chairman of the National Committee of Reconciliation and Development.
Douglas Porch, page 418, The French Foreign Legion. A Complete History, ISBN 0-333-58500-3
Philip D. Curtin (28 May 1998). Disease and Empire: The Health of European Troops in the Conquest of Africa. Cambridge University Press. p. 186. ISBN 978-0-521-59835-4.
Windrow, Martin (26 March 1999). French Foreign Legion 1814–1945. p. 40. ISBN 1-85532-761-9.
2e REP: Honneur et Fidélité and More Majorum[75] (in the manner, ways and traditions of our veterans[76] foreign regiments)
"La Légion ne pleure pas ses morts, elle les honore !"
"Hundreds of foreign fighters join pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine". ABC News. 21 September 2015. Retrieved 19 January 2023.
During the Mexican Campaign, 6,654 French died. Of these, 1,918 were from a single regiment of the Legion.[27]
^ Windrow, Martin (26 March 1999). French Foreign Legion 1814–1945. p. 42. ISBN 1-85532-761-9.
Wharton, James. "Can I run away and join the French Foreign Legion?". Forces Network. Retrieved 2 March 2022.
^ No further promotions are given to non-French Legionnaires on attaining the rank of Adjudant-Chef, unless they become naturalized citizens of France. In 2016, of those Foreign Legion Officers serving at Foreign Titles (French: Officiers servant à titre étranger), 10% were seconded officers from the ranks.[69]
^ Olmstead, Molly (10 March 2022). "Who Are the Americans Who Went to Fight in Ukraine?". Slate. Retrieved 13 March 2022.
^ a b "Régiments et unités composant la Légion étrangère". www.legion-etrangere.com (in French). Retrieved 29 January 2022.[permanent dead link]
Montfort, Robert (September 1987).Micheletti, Eric (ed.). "La Septième Compagnie indépendante: les volontaires français en Rhodésie" [The Seventh Independent Company: the French volunteers in Rhodesia]. RAIDS (in French). Paris: Histoire et Collections (16): 16–20.; Montfort, Robert (October 1987).Micheletti, Eric (ed.). "La Septième Compagnie indépendante: les volontaires français en Rhodésie (II)" [The Seventh Independent Company: the French volunteers in Rhodesia (part II)]. RAIDS (in French). Paris: Histoire et Collections (17): 28–31.
The 1er BEP sailed to Indochina on 12 November and was then engaged in combat operations in Tonkin.[41] On 17 November 1950 the battalion parachuted into That Khé and suffered heavy losses at Coc Xa. Reconstituted on 1 March 1951, the battalion participated in combat operations at Cho Ben, on the Black River and in Annam.[41] On 21 November 1953 the reconstituted 1er BEP was parachuted into Dien Bien Phu.[41] In this battle, the unit lost 575 killed and missing.[41] Reconstituted for the third time on 19 May 1954, the battalion left Indochina on 8 February 1955.[41] The 1er BEP received five citations and the fourragère of the colors of the Médaille militaire[41] for its service in Indochina. The 1er BEP became the 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment (1er REP) in Algeria on 1 September 1955.
"Le Boudin"[5][79] is the marching song of the Foreign Legion.
2e REG: Honneur et Fidélité and Rien n'empêche (Nothing prevents)
^ Bernard B. Fall (1994). Street Without Joy: The French Debacle in Indochina. Stackpole Books. p. 279. ISBN 978-0-8117-1700-7.
Chris Dickon, A Rendezvous with Death: Alan Seeger in Poetry, at War, 2019 ISBN 978-1689382588
While only one of several Legion units involved in Indochina, the 1st Foreign Parachute Battalion (1er BEP) particularly distinguished itself, while being annihilated twice. It was renamed the 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment (1er REP) after its third reformation.[41]
Technical and practical training (alternating with barracks and field training) – three weeks.
20minutos (31 October 2006). "La Legión asume el mando en Líbano tras culminar Infantería de Marina su misión". www.20minutos.es - Últimas Noticias (in Spanish). Retrieved 2 May 2022.
Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. pp. 127–128. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "Remise Képi Blanc". YouTube.
^ 4th Foreign Regiment, Code d'honneur du Légionnaire, archived from the original on 28 September 2015, retrieved 5 August 2015
Recipients of these honorary appointments had participated with units of the Legion on active service in an exemplary manner, or had rendered exceptional service to the Legion in non-combat situations.[93] More than 1,200 individuals have been granted honorary ranks in the Legion pour services éminent. The majority of these awards have been made to military personnel in wartime, earning titles such as Legionnaire d'Honneur or Sergent-Chef de Légion d'honneur, while other recipients have included nurses, journalists, painters, and ministers who have rendered meritorious service to the Foreign Legion.[93]
^ René Chartrand, The Mexican Adventure 1861–67, page 19, ISBN 9781855324305
1978–present : Peacekeeping operations around the Mediterranean, including the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon during the Global War on Terror
Binda, Alexandre (May 2008). The Saints: The Rhodesian Light Infantry. Johannesburg: 30° South Publishers. pp. 186–188. ISBN 978-1-920143-07-7.
^ a b "Hundreds of foreign fighters join pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine". ABC News. 21 September 2015. Retrieved 19 January 2023.
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 43. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
2e REI: Honneur et Fidélité and Être prêt (Be ready)
^ a b "Contracts & career within the legion | Légion étrangère". www.legion-recrute.com. Retrieved 12 January 2022.
Commandant Hélie de Saint Marc Captain Pierre Sergent [fr] Guy Rubin de Cervens
"Can I run away and join the French Foreign Legion?"
2e Régiment Étranger de Parachutistes (2ème REP), based in Calvi, Corsica
Neeno, Timothy. "The French Intervention in Mexico (1862–67)". Military History Online. Retrieved 26 February 2011.
^ Moorcraft, Paul L.; McLaughlin, Peter (April 2008) [1982]. The Rhodesian War: A Military History. Barnsley: Pen and Sword Books. p. 52. ISBN 978-1-84415-694-8.
"Le saviez-vous ? Les militaires aussi ont leurs saints patrons!"
The SPECTRA is a ballistic helmet, designed by the French military, fitted with real-time positioning and information system, and with light amplifiers for night vision.
"French Foreign Legion structure in 2018 | French Foreign Legion Information". Retrieved 29 January 2022.
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. pp. 54–55. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
^ Galliac, Paul (2012). L'Armee Française. p. 88. ISBN 978-2-35250-195-4.
^ Frederic Martyn, Life in the Legion: from a Soldier's Point of View (New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1911), pp. 83–84. Read online at archive.org
Today, there is a program, Garin Tzabar, within the Israeli Ministry of Defense that administers the enlistment of non-Israeli citizens in the country's armed forces. Programs enable foreigners to join the Israel Defense Forces if they are of Jewish descent (which is defined as at least one grandparent).
The legion was heavily engaged in fighting against the National Liberation Front and the Armée de Libération Nationale (ALN). The main activity during the period 1954–1962 was as part of the operations of the 10th Parachute Division and 25th Parachute Division. The 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment, 1er REP, was under the command of the 10th Parachute Division (France), 10ème DP, and the 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment, 2ème REP, was under the command of the 25th Parachute Division (France), 25ème DP. While both the 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment (1er REP), and the 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment (2ème REP), were part of the operations of French parachute divisions (10ème DP and 25ème DP established in 1956), the Legion's 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment (1er REP), and the Legion's 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment (2ème REP), are older than the French divisions. The 1er REP was the former thrice-reconstituted 1st Foreign Parachute Battalion (1er BEP) and the 2ème REP was the former 2nd Foreign Parachute Battalion (2ème BEP). Both battalions were renamed and their Legionnaires transferred from Indochina on 1 August 1954 to Algeria by 1 November 1954. Both traced their origins to the Parachute Company of the 3rd Foreign Infantry Regiment commanded by Legion Lieutenant Jacques Morin attached to the III/1er R.C.P.[44]
^ a b c d e f Porch p. 382–3
^ Blackwell, Tom (9 March 2022). "Exclusive: So many Canadian fighters in Ukraine, they have their own battalion, source says". National Post.
^ Porch, Douglas (1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History of the Legendary Fighting Force. HarperCollins Canada, Limited. p. 531. ISBN 978-1616080686.
^ "Les chants du 2e REG et des compagnies". Archived from the original on 3 October 2015. Retrieved 5 August 2015.
Following World War II, many French-speaking former German soldiers joined the Foreign Legion to pursue a military career, an option no longer possible in Germany, including French German soldiers of Malgré-nous. It would have been considered problematic if the men from Alsace-Lorraine had not spoken French. These French-speaking former German soldiers made up as much as 60 percent of the Legion during the war in Indochina. Contrary to popular belief however, French policy was to exclude former members of the Waffen-SS, and candidates for induction were refused if they exhibited the tell-tale blood type tattoo, or even a scar that might be masking it.[39]
While suffering heavy casualties on the Western Front the Legion had emerged from World War I with an enhanced reputation and as one of the most highly decorated units in the French Army.[36] In 1919, the government of Spain raised the Spanish Foreign Legion and modeled it after the French Foreign Legion.[36] General Jean Mordacq intended to rebuild the Foreign Legion as a larger military formation, doing away with the legion's traditional role as a solely infantry formation.[36] General Mordacq envisioned a Foreign Legion consisting not of regiments, but of divisions with cavalry, engineer, and artillery regiments in addition to the legion's infantry mainstay.[36] In 1920, decrees ordained the establishment of regiments of cavalry and artillery.[36] Immediately following the armistice the Foreign Legion experienced an increase of enlistments.[37] The Foreign Legion began the process of reorganizing and redeploying to Algeria.[36]
Subsequent military campaigns included those during the Suez Crisis, the Battle of Algiers and various offensives in Algeria launched by General Maurice Challe including Operation Oranie and Operation Jumelles. During the Algerian War of Independence (1954–1962), the Foreign Legion came close to being disbanded after some officers, men, and the highly decorated 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment (1er REP) took part in the Generals' putsch. In the 1960s and 1970s, Legion regiments had additional roles in sending units as a rapid deployment force to preserve French interests – in its former African colonies and in other nations as well; it also returned to its roots of being a unit always ready to be sent to conflict zones around the world. Some notable operations include: the Chadian–Libyan conflict in 1969–1972 (the first time that the Legion was sent in operations after the Algerian War), 1978–1979, and 1983–1987; Kolwezi in what is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo in May 1978. In 1981, the 1st Foreign Regiment and Foreign Legion regiments took part in the Multinational Force in Lebanon. In 1990, Foreign Legion regiments were sent to the Persian Gulf and participated in Opération Daguet, part of Division Daguet. Following the Gulf War in the 1990s, the Foreign Legion helped with the evacuation of French citizens and foreigners in Rwanda, Gabon and Zaire. The Foreign Legion was also deployed in Cambodia, Somalia, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the mid- to late 1990s, the Foreign Legion was deployed in the Central African Republic, Congo-Brazzaville and in Kosovo. The French Foreign Legion also took part in operations in Rwanda in 1990–1994; and the Ivory Coast in 2002 to the present. In the 2000s, the Foreign Legion was deployed in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan, Opération Licorne in Ivory Coast, the EUFOR Tchad/RCA in Chad, and Operation Serval in the Northern Mali conflict.[18] Other countries have tried to emulate the French Foreign Legion model.[citation needed]The Foreign Legion was primarily used, as part of the Armée d'Afrique, to protect and expand the French colonial empire during the 19th century, but it also fought in almost all French wars including the Franco-Prussian War, World War I and World War II. The Foreign Legion has remained an important part of the French Army and sea transport protected by the French Navy, surviving three Republics, the Second French Empire, two World Wars, the rise and fall of mass conscript armies, the dismantling of the French colonial empire, and the loss of the Foreign Legion's base, Algeria.
MR Tony Geraghty (1987). March Or Die: A New History of the French Foreign Legion. New York, N.Y. : Facts on File. ISBN 978-0-8160-1794-2.
^ In Le livre d'or de la Légion étrangère, page 66.
"Foreign Fighters Are Rushing to Join Ukraine's New International Battalion"
1er REC:Honneur et Fidélité and Nec Pluribus Impar (No other equal)
In Israel, Mahal (Hebrew: מח"ל, an acronym for Mitnadvei Ḥutz LaAretz, which means Volunteers from outside the Land [of Israel]) is a term designating non-Israelis serving in the Israeli military. The term originates with the approximately 4,000 both Jewish and non-Jewish volunteers who went to Israel to fight in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War including Aliyah Bet.[130] The original Mahalniks were mostly World War II veterans who had previously served in the American and British armed forces.[citation needed]
In the French Army, since the 18th century, every infantry regiment included a small detachment of pioneers. In addition to undertaking road building and entrenchment work, such units were tasked with using their axes and shovels to clear obstacles under enemy fire opening the way for the rest of the infantry. The danger of such missions was recognised by allowing certain privileges, such as being authorised to wear beards.
March (Raid Marche) – a 120-kilometer (75 mi) final march, which must be completed in three days.
"Foreign Legion – Recruiting". Legion-recrute.com. Archived from the original on 22 November 2013.
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 39. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
War on terror (2001-2008)War in Afghanistan (1978–present)Operation Enduring FreedomWar in Afghanistan
Return to Aubagne before reporting to the assigned operational regiment – one week.
Waller, Nicholas (26 February 2016). "American Ex-Paratrooper Joins Georgian Legion Fighting in Ukraine". Georgia Today. Archived from the original on 1 April 2020. Retrieved 3 February 2019.
6Marching songs											Toggle Marching songs subsection																					6.1"Le Boudin"																											6.2Other songs
During the Rhodesian Bush War of the 1960s and 1970s, the Rhodesian Security Forces enlisted volunteers from overseas on the same pay and conditions of service as locally based regulars.[132] The vast majority of the Rhodesian Army's foreigners joined the Rhodesian Light Infantry (RLI), a heliborne commando regiment with a glamorous international reputation;[133] this unit became colloquially known as the "Rhodesian foreign legion" as a result, even though foreigners never made up more than about a third of its men. According to Chris Cocks, an RLI veteran, "the RLI was a mirror of the French Foreign Legion, in that recruiters paid little heed as to a man's past and asked no questions. ... And like the Foreign Legion, once in the ranks, a man's past was irrelevant."[134] Just as French Foreign Legionnaires must speak French, the Rhodesian Army required its foreigners to be English-speakers. Many of them were professional soldiers, attracted by the regiment's reputation—mostly former British soldiers, or Vietnam veterans from the United States, Australian and New Zealand forces—and these became a key part of the unit.[135] Others, with no military experience, were often motivated to join the Rhodesian Army by their opposition to communism, or a desire for adventure or to escape the past.[134]
^ Jouineau, Andre (2008). French Army Volume 1: 1914. p. 58. ISBN 978-2-35250-104-6.
Afghanistan Intervention 1er REC / 3° escadron (1 peloton); 2ème REI / 4° compagnie OMLT; 2ème REG / 1ère compagnie[54]
"Régiments et unités composant la Légion étrangère". www.legion-etrangere.com (in French). Retrieved 29 January 2022.[permanent dead link]
Mirouze, Laurent (2007). The French Army in the First World War – to Battle 1914. p. 223. ISBN 978-3-902526-09-0.
Page 41 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945", Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
Gabon Prevention 2ème REP / 3ème compagnie – 4ème compagnie
^ a b c Philip D. Curtin (28 May 1998). Disease and Empire: The Health of European Troops in the Conquest of Africa. Cambridge University Press. p. 186. ISBN 978-0-521-59835-4.
^ Comor André-Paul, "La Légion étrangère dans la guerre d'Algérie, 1954–1962", Guerres mondiales et conflits contemporains, 1/2010 (n° 237), p. 81-93.
"More Majorum". French Foreign Legion. Général de division Jean Maurin Commandant la Légion étrangère (Képi-blanc Magazine).
The Spanish Foreign Legion was created in 1920, in emulation of the French one, and had a significant role in Spain's colonial wars in Morocco and in the Spanish Civil War on the Nationalist side. The Spanish Foreign Legion recruited foreigners until 1986 but unlike its French model, the number of non-Spanish recruits never exceeded 25%, most of these from Latin America. It is now called the Spanish Legion and has been involved in several modern conflicts and operations including Afghanistan and the UN Mission in Lebanon UNIFIL .[140][141][142]
^ Mirouze, Laurent (2007). The French Army in the First World War – to Battle 1914. p. 223. ISBN 978-3-902526-09-0.
1er Régiment Étranger de Génie (1er REG), based in Laudun, FrancePionniers Groups
Olmstead, Molly (10 March 2022). "Who Are the Americans Who Went to Fight in Ukraine?". Slate. Retrieved 13 March 2022.
Note that in the French language, the designation of "Mounted Company" (French: Compagnie Portée) means mounted and could be applied for both Motorized or Mounted by other means. The designation of "Motorized Company" (French: Compagnie Motorisée) would be strictly limited to being motorized which is not the word being used even if it was motorized. The referral of "Mounted" Saharan Companies (French: Compagnie Saharienne "Portée") is used instead of motorized strictly, even if these units were motorized, to also describe the packing of artillery. The companies could be described as Motorized Saharan Companies of the Legion; however their strict French limitation to motorized only in terms of translation and function would be incorrect as they should be referred to as "Mounted" which would apply for both Motorized or mounting other means.
Count Aage of Rosenborg, a Danish Prince who served in the Foreign Legion and died with the rank of lieutenant-colonel
Also notable is the marching pace of the Foreign Legion. In comparison to the 116-step-per-minute pace of other French units, the Foreign Legion has an 88-step-per-minute marching speed. It is also referred to by Legionnaires as the "crawl". This can be seen at ceremonial parades and public displays attended by the Foreign Legion, particularly while parading in Paris on 14 July (Bastille Day Military Parade). Because of the impressively slow pace, the Foreign Legion is always the last unit marching in any parade. The Foreign Legion is normally accompanied by its own band, which traditionally plays the march of any one of the Foreign Legion's regiments, except that of the unit actually on parade. The regimental song of each unit and "Le Boudin" is sung by legionnaires standing at attention. Also, because the Foreign Legion must always stay together, it does not break formation into two when approaching the presidential grandstand, as other French military units do, in order to preserve the unity of the legion.
Since 1 January 2009, the French military rank of major has been included under the heading of sous-officiers. Previously, Major had been an independent rank positioned between NCOs and commissioned officers. It is an executive position within a regiment or demi-brigade having responsibility for administrative and disciplinary issues
^ "Gallery". Legion of the Lost. Archived from the original on 23 August 2018. Retrieved 20 October 2010.
The Foreign Legion accepts people enlisting under a nationality that is not their own. A proportion of the Swiss and Belgians are actually likely to be Frenchmen who wish to avoid detection.[65] In addition many Alsatians are said to have joined the Foreign Legion when Alsace was part of the German Empire, and may have been recorded as German while considering themselves French.
ERC 90 light tank of the 13th Demi-Brigade of the Foreign Legion (13èmeDBLE) in Djibouti
From its foundation until World War I the Foreign Legion normally wore the uniform of the French line infantry for parade with a few special distinctions.[97] Essentially this consisted of a dark blue coat (later tunic) worn with red trousers. The field uniform was often modified under the influence of the extremes of climate and terrain in which the Foreign Legion served. Shakos were soon replaced by the light cloth kepi, which was far more suitable for North African conditions. The practice of wearing heavy capotes (greatcoats) on the march and vestes (short hip-length jackets) as working dress in barracks was followed by the Foreign Legion from its establishment.[98]One short lived aberration was the wearing of green uniforms in 1856 by Foreign Legion units recruited in Switzerland for service in the Crimean War.[99] In the Crimea itself (1854–59) a hooded coat and red or blue waist sashes were adopted for winter dress,[100] while during the Mexican Intervention (1863–65) straw hats or sombreros were sometimes substituted for the kepi.[101][102] When the latter was worn it was usually covered with a white "havelock" (linen cover) – the predecessor of the white kepi that was to become a symbol of the Foreign Legion. Foreign Legion units serving in France during the Franco-Prussian War of 1870–71 were distinguishable only by minor details of insignia from the bulk of the French infantry. However subsequent colonial campaigns saw an increasing use of special garments for hot weather wear such as collarless keo blouses in Tonkin 1884–85, khaki drill jackets in Dahomey (1892)[103] and drab covered topees worn with all-white fatigue dress in Madagascar[104] (1895).[105]
13.1Emulation by other countries																								13.1.1Chinese Ever Victorious Army																											13.1.2Israeli Mahal																											13.1.3Netherlands KNIL Army																											13.1.4Rhodesian Light Infantry and 7 Independent Company																											13.1.5Russian "Foreign Legion"																											13.1.6Spanish "Foreign Legion"																											13.1.7Ukrainian International Legion & Georgian Legion
In Le livre d'or de la Légion étrangère, page 66.
The Foreign Legion's first service in Algeria came to an end after only four years, as it was needed elsewhere.
Mountain training (Chalet at Formiguière in the French Pyrenees) – one week.
Herbert Ingram Priestly (26 May 1967). France Overseas: A Study Of Modern Imperialism, 1938. Routledge. p. 308. ISBN 978-0-7146-1024-5.
Comor André-Paul, "La Légion étrangère dans la guerre d'Algérie, 1954–1962", Guerres mondiales et conflits contemporains, 1/2010 (n° 237), p. 81-93.
Note: English names for countries or territories are in parentheses.
"Officier servant à titre étranger". French Foreign Legion. 2 December 2016.
During the early 1920s plain khaki drill uniforms of a standard pattern became universal issue for the Foreign Legion with only the red and blue kepi (with or without a cover) and green collar braiding to distinguish the Legionnaire from other French soldiers serving in North African and Indo-China. The neck curtain ceased to be worn from about 1915, although it survived in the newly raised Foreign Legion Cavalry Regiment into the 1920s. The white blouse (bourgeron) and trousers dating from 1882 were retained for fatigue wear until the 1930s.[122]
The white kepis, together with the sash[125] and epaulettes survive in the Foreign Legion's modern parade dress. Since the 1990s the modern kepi has been made wholly of white material rather than simply worn with a white cover. Officers and senior noncommissioned officers still wear their kepis in the pre-1939 colours of dark blue and red. A green tie and (for officers) a green waistcoat recall the traditional branch colour of the Foreign Legion. From 1959 a green beret (previously worn only by the legion's paratroopers) became the universal ordinary duty headdress, with the kepi reserved for parade and off duty wear.[126][127] Other items of currently worn dress are the standard issue of the French Army.
The lack of equipment was particularly challenging and cholera hit the Allied expeditionary force. Nevertheless, the "leather bellies" (the nickname given to the legionnaires by the Russians because of the large cartridge pouches that they wore attached to their waist-belts), performed well. On 21 June 1855, the Third Battalion, left Corsica for Crimea.
^ "French Foreign Legion structure in 2018 | French Foreign Legion Information". Retrieved 29 January 2022.
In December 1883, during a review of the Second Legion Battalion on the eve of its departure for Tonkin to take part in the Bắc Ninh Campaign, General François de Négrier pronounced a famous mot: Vous, légionnaires, vous êtes soldats pour mourir, et je vous envoie où l'on meurt! ('You, Legionnaires, you are soldiers in order to die, and I'm sending you to where one dies!')
Like the rest of the "Army of Africa", the Foreign Legion provided detachments in the campaign of Italy. Two foreign regiments, grouped with the 2nd Regiment of Zouaves, were part of the Second Brigade of the Second Division of Mac Mahon's Corps. The Foreign Legion acquitted itself particularly well against the Austrians at the battle of Magenta (4 June 1859) and at the Battle of Solferino (24 June). Legion losses were significant and the 2nd Foreign Regiment lost Colonel Chabrière, its commanding officer. In gratitude, the city of Milan awarded, in 1909, the "commemorative medal of deliverance", which still adorns the regimental flags of the Second Regiment.[23]
^ "Foreign Fighters Vow to Support Ukraine Against Russian Invasion". Coffee or Die Magazine. 24 December 2021. Retrieved 20 January 2022.
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 58. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
Jatczak Z., Schramm K., "I regret nothing", Warsaw 2021, ISBN 978-83-66687-15-8
Rowley, Jim (22 January 2021). "The Entire Hitman Timeline Explained". Looper.com. Retrieved 16 October 2021.
Coordinates: .mw-parser-output .geo-default,.mw-parser-output .geo-dms,.mw-parser-output .geo-dec{display:inline}.mw-parser-output .geo-nondefault,.mw-parser-output .geo-multi-punct{display:none}.mw-parser-output .longitude,.mw-parser-output .latitude{white-space:nowrap}43°17′33″N 5°33′12″E﻿ / ﻿43.2925°N 5.5534°E﻿ / 43.2925; 5.5534
Original nationalities of the Foreign Legion reflect the events in history at the time they join. Many former Wehrmacht personnel joined in the wake of World War II[62] as many soldiers returning to civilian life found it hard to find reliable employment. Jean-Denis Lepage reports that "The Foreign Legion discreetly recruited from German P.O.W. camps",[63] but adds that the number of these recruits has been subsequently exaggerated. Bernard B. Fall, who was a supporter of the French government, writing in the context of the First Indochina War, questioned the notion that the Foreign Legion was mainly German at that time, calling it:
The following is a list of notable people who are or were members of the Foreign Legion:
A dress uniform's insignia is composed of three components; rank emblem, regimental patch, and seniority chevrons. In the one pictured, the three upward pointing gold chevrons indicate a Sergent-chef. The diamond-shaped regimental patch (Écusson) is formed of three green diamond shapes surrounding a grenade emblem, with the three diamonds indicating a Colonial unit, in comparison to one diamond for a unit of Regulars, or two diamonds for a Reserves unit. The Légion grenade emblem has seven flames rather than the usual five, and the two downward pointing seniority chevrons indicate at least 10 years of service. Some Caporals-Chef may have as many as six seniority chevrons for 30 or more years of service. This style of insignia is worn only on the left sleeve of the dress uniform, while a similar-sized insignia without the regimental diamond and seniority chevrons is worn on the right sleeve. An exception exists for the right sleeve insignia for the Pioneer units, which incorporates a gold or green Pioneer emblem, depending on rank, but not the seniority chevrons, which are worn on the left sleeve insignia below the regimental diamond as previously described.
The FÉLIN suit, an infantry combat system that combines ample pouches, reinforced body protections and a portable electronic platform.
Dien Bien Phu fell on 7 May 1954 at 17:30.[42] The couple of hectares that were the battlefield today are corn fields surrounding a stele which commemorates the sacrifices of those who died there. While the garrison of Dien Bien Phu included French regular, North African, and locally recruited (Indochinese) units, the battle has become associated particularly with the paratroops of the Foreign Legion.
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 75. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
1er Régiment Étranger de Cavalerie (1er REC), based in Camp de Carpiagne [fr], France
13e DBLE: Honneur et Fidélité and More Majorum[75] ("in the manner, ways and traditions of our veterans foreign regiments")
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 26. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
1.8Colonization of Africa																								1.8.1Second Franco-Dahomean War 1892–1894																											1.8.2Second Madagascar Expedition 1894–1895																											1.8.3Mandingo War 1898
"Wetten.nl – Wet- en regelgeving – Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap – BWBR0003738". overheid.nl.
"Gallery". Legion of the Lost. Archived from the original on 23 August 2018. Retrieved 20 October 2010.
In 1895, a battalion, formed by the First and Second Foreign Regiments, was sent to the Kingdom of Madagascar, as part of an expeditionary force whose mission was to conquer the island. The foreign battalion formed the backbone of the column launched on Antananarivo, the capital of Madagascar. After a few skirmishes, the Queen Ranavalona III promptly surrendered.[30][31] The Foreign Legion lost 226 men, of whom only a tenth died in actual fighting. Others, like much of the expeditionary force, died from tropical diseases.[30] Despite the success of the expedition, the quelling of sporadic rebellions would take another eight years until 1905, when the island was completely pacified by the French under Joseph Gallieni.[30] During that time, insurrections against the Malagasy Christians of the island, missionaries and foreigners were particularly terrible.[32] Queen Ranavalona III was deposed in January 1897 and was exiled to Algiers in Algeria, where she died in 1917.[33]
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 18. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
^ Herbert Ingram Priestly (26 May 1967). France Overseas: A Study Of Modern Imperialism, 1938. Routledge. p. 308. ISBN 978-0-7146-1024-5.
The independence of Algeria from the French in 1962 was traumatising since it ended with the enforced abandonment of the barracks command center at Sidi Bel Abbès established in 1842. Upon being notified that the elite regiment was to be disbanded and that they were to be reassigned, legionnaires of the 1er REP burned the Chinese pavilion acquired following the Siege of Tuyên Quang in 1884. The relics from the Legion's history museum, including the wooden hand of Captain Jean Danjou, subsequently accompanied the Legion to France. Also removed from Sidi Bel Abbès were the symbolic Legion remains of General Paul-Frédéric Rollet ( The Father of the Legion ), Legion officer Prince Count Aage of Rosenborg, and Legionnaire Heinz Zimmermann (last fatal casualty in Algeria).
12.1French Foreign Legion command (1931–1984)																								12.1.1Inspector Tenure																											12.1.2Autonomous Group Tenure																											12.1.3Command Tenure																											12.1.4Technical Inspection Tenure																											12.1.5Groupment Tenure
"Sous Le Ciel de Paris", The Choir of the French Foreign Legion
Examinations and obtaining of the elementary technical certificate (CTE) – one week.
Madrid, Agence France-Presse in (27 February 2015). "Spain arrests eight nationals for fighting with pro-Russia separatists in Ukraine". the Guardian. Retrieved 19 January 2023.
The French Foreign Legion (French: Légion étrangère) is a corps of the French Army that consists of several specialties: infantry, cavalry, engineers, airborne troops.[8] It was created in 1831 to allow foreign nationals into the French Army.[9] It formed part of the Armée d’Afrique, the French Army's units associated with France's colonial project in Africa, until the end of the Algerian war in 1962.[10]
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 26. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
Paul Ayres Rockwell, American Fighters in the Foreign Legion, 1930
^ "Georgian Legion join Ukraine Armed Force". Ukrinform. 24 February 2016. Retrieved 3 February 2019.
"Le chant du 2ème REI". legion-etrangere.com. Archived from the original on 30 June 2015. Retrieved 5 August 2015.
^ Martin Windrow (2010). The French Foreign Legion 1872–1914. Osprey. pp. 43–44. ISBN 978-1-84908-326-3.
13e Demi-Brigade de Légion Étrangère (13ème DBLE), based in La Cavalerie, France
Guyane (French Guiana) Mission de presence sur l'Oyapok – Protection – 3ème REI Protection CSG; 2ème REP / CEA; 2ème REI / 4ème compagnie[54]
The current pioneer platoon of the Foreign Legion is provided by the Legion depot and headquarters regiment for public ceremonies.[95] The unit has reintroduced the symbols of the Napoleonic sappers: the beard, the axe, the leather apron, the crossed-axes insignia and the leather gloves. When parades of the Foreign Legion are opened by this unit, it is to commemorate the traditional role of the sappers "opening the way" for the troops.[94]
From 1940 until 1963 the Foreign Legion maintained four Saharan Companies (Compagnies Sahariennes) as part of the French forces used to patrol and police the desert regions to the south of Morocco and Algeria. Special uniforms were developed for these units, modeled on those of the French officered Camel Corps (Méharistes) having prime responsibility for the Sahara. In full dress these included black or white zouave style trousers, worn with white tunics and long flowing cloaks. The Legion companies maintained their separate identity by retaining their distinctive kepis, sashes and fringed epaulettes.
Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 42. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
The 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment 1er REP was disbanded on 30 April 1961.[43] However, the 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment 2ème REP prevailed in existence, while most of the personnel of the Saharan Companies were integrated into the 1st Foreign Infantry Regiment, 2nd Foreign Infantry Regiment and 4th Foreign Infantry Regiment respectively.
As the Foreign Legion is composed of soldiers of different nationalities and backgrounds, it is necessary to develop an intense esprit de corps,[44] which is achieved through the development of camaraderie,[44] specific traditions, the loyalty of its legionnaires, the quality of their training, and the pride of being a soldier in an elite unit.[44]
^ Since 1 January 2009, the French military rank of major has been included under the heading of sous-officiers. Previously, Major had been an independent rank positioned between NCOs and commissioned officers. It is an executive position within a regiment or demi-brigade having responsibility for administrative and disciplinary issues
"Wetten.nl – Wet- en regelgeving – Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap – BWBR0003738"
^ "Foreign Fighters Are Rushing to Join Ukraine's New International Battalion". www.vice.com. Retrieved 7 May 2022.
Martin Windrow (2010). The French Foreign Legion 1872–1914. Osprey. pp. 44–45. ISBN 978-1-84908-326-3.
As part of the Army of Africa, the Foreign Legion contributed to the growth of the French colonial empire in Sub-Saharan Africa. Simultaneously, the Legion took part to the pacification of Algeria, suppressing various tribal rebellions and razzias.
^ Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. p. 422. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
1.9Marching Regiments of the Foreign Legion																								1.9.1World War I 1914–1918																											1.9.2Interwar period 1918–1939																											1.9.3World War II 1939–1945																											1.9.4Alsace-Lorraine
Kent, Arthur; Brokaw, Tom (13 November 1990). "French Foreign Legion Prepares for Persian Gulf War" (Video News Report). NBC Nightly News. NBCUniversal Media, LLC. Retrieved 7 December 2014. Glen Slick is an American bearing arms for President Mitterrand, not President Bush. He's one of 27 nationalities here with the French Foreign Legion.
Most officers are seconded from the French Army though roughly 10% are former non-commissioned officers promoted from the ranks.[86]
A Rendezvous with Death: Alan Seeger in Poetry, at War
Abbott, Peter; Botham, Philip (June 1986). Modern African Wars: Rhodesia, 1965–80. Oxford: Osprey Publishing. p. 17. ISBN 978-0-85045-728-5.
French Overseas Territories and Overseas Collectives, France3e Régiment Étranger d’Infanterie (3ème REI), based in French GuianaPionniers GroupsDétachement de Légion Étrangère de Mayotte (DLEM)
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 16. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
"Hundreds of foreign fighters join pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine"
During the Indochina War, the Legion operated several armoured trains which were an enduring Rolling Symbol during the chartered course duration of French Indochina. The Legion also operated various Passage Companies relative to the continental conflicts at hand.
Prior to 1914 units in Indo-China wore white or khaki Colonial Infantry uniforms with Foreign Legion insignia, to overcome supply difficulties.[116] This dress included a white sun helmet of a model that was also worn by Foreign Legion units serving in the outposts of Southern Algeria, though never popular with its wearers.[117] During the initial months of World War I, Foreign Legion units serving in France wore the standard blue greatcoat and red trousers of the French line infantry, distinguished only by collar patches of the same blue as the capote, instead of red.[118] After a short period in sky-blue the Foreign Legion adopted khaki,in common with other units of the Armée d'Afrique, with steel helmets, from early 1916.[119][120] A mustard shade of khaki drill had been worn on active service in Morocco from 1909, replacing the classic blue and white.[121] The latter continued to be worn in the relatively peaceful conditions of Algeria throughout World War I, although increasingly replaced by khaki drill. The pre-1914 blue and red uniforms could still be occasionally seen as garrison dress in Algeria until stocks were used up about 1919.
Joy Lichfield (13 October 2000). "Women can run off and join the Legion". The Independent.
"History of the 2e REP, 2nd Foreign Parachute Battalion,2e Bataillon Etranger de Parachutistes"
The new Third Republic was desperately short of trained soldiers following Sedan, so the Foreign Legion was ordered to provide a contingent. On 11 October 1870 two provisional battalions disembarked via sea at Toulon, the first time the Foreign Legion had been deployed in France itself. It attempted to lift the Siege of Paris by breaking through the German lines. It succeeded in retaking Orléans, but failed to break the siege. In January 1871, France capitulated but civil war soon broke out, which led to revolution and the short-lived Paris Commune. The Foreign Legion participated in the suppression of the Commune,[29] which was crushed with great bloodshed.
Jouineau, Andre (2009). Officers and Soldiers of the French Army Volume 2: 1915–18. pp. 54 & 55. ISBN 978-2-35250-105-3.
[a] canard…with the sub-variant that all those Germans were at least SS generals and other much wanted war criminals. As a rule, and in order to prevent any particular nation from making the Foreign Legion into a Praetorian Guard, any particular national component is kept at about 25 percent of the total. Even supposing (and this was the case, of course) that the French recruiters, in the eagerness for candidates would sign up Germans enlisting as Swiss, Austrian, Scandinavian and other nationalities of related ethnic background, it is unlikely that the number of Germans in the Foreign Legion ever exceeded 35 percent. Thus, without making an allowance for losses, rotation, discharges, etc., the maximum number of Germans fighting in Indochina at any one time reached perhaps 7,000 out of 278,000. As to the ex-Nazis, the early arrivals contained a number of them, none of whom were known to be war criminals. French intelligence saw to that.Since, in view of the rugged Indochinese climate, older men without previous tropical experience constituted more a liability than an asset, the average age of the Foreign Legion enlistees was about 23. At the time of the battle of Dien Bien Phu, any legionnaire of that age group was at the worst, in his "Hitler Youth" shorts when the [Third] Reich collapsed.[64]
^ Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. p. 14. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
French rank Sergent-Major (similar to Sergeant Major), existed until 1971 and could come close to but is not like the French rank of Major. The last Sergent-Major retired in 1985
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "Code d'honneur du légionnaire". YouTube.
The 38,000 strong French expeditionary force dispatched to Mexico via sea between 1862 and 1863 included two battalions of the Foreign Legion, increased to six battalions by 1866. Small cavalry and artillery units were raised from legionnaires serving in Mexico. The original intention was that Foreign Legion units should remain in Mexico for up to six years to provide a core for the Imperial Mexican Army.[24] However the Legion was withdrawn with the other French forces during February–March 1867.
Lebanese Civil War 1975–1990United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (1978–present)[6]Multinational Force in Lebanon 1982–1984
The main Disciplinary Company of the Foreign Legion (CDLE), based on rules and regulations set by général Rollet in 1931, received serious offenders sent from Legion regiments garrisoned or operating in Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, the Levant and Tonkin (special section of the 5th Foreign Infantry Regiment and later in 1963, part of a Saharan disciplinary section unit of the 5e REI and 2nd Foreign Infantry Regiment). It was dissolved on July 1, 1964.
On 8 September the final assault was launched on Sevastopol. Two days later, the Second Foreign Regiment with flags and band playing ahead, marched through the streets of Sevastopol. Although initial reservations had been expressed about whether the Legion should be used outside Africa,[21] the Crimean experience established its suitability for service in European warfare, as well as making a cohesive single entity of what had previously been two separate foreign regiments.[22] Total Legion casualties in the Crimea were 1,703 killed and wounded.
At the time of the Foreign Legion's centennial in 1931, a number of traditional features were reintroduced at the initiative of the then commander Colonel Rollet.[123] These included the blue sash and green/red epaulettes. In 1939 the white covered kepi won recognition as the official headdress of the Foreign Legion to be worn on most occasions, rather than simply as a means of reflecting heat and protecting the blue and red material underneath. The Third Foreign Infantry Regiment adopted white tunics and trousers for walking-out dress during the 1930s[124]and all Foreign Legion officers were required to obtain full dress uniforms in the pre-war colours of black and red from 1932 to 1939.
^ Hinshaw, Drew; Gauthier-Villars, David (15 January 2013). "France Widens Military Effort in Mali". The Wall Street Journal.
Binda, Alexandre (May 2008). The Saints: The Rhodesian Light Infantry. Johannesburg: 30° South Publishers. p. 126. ISBN 978-1-920143-07-7.
13Legacy											Toggle Legacy subsection																					13.1Emulation by other countries																								13.1.1Chinese Ever Victorious Army																											13.1.2Israeli Mahal																											13.1.3Netherlands KNIL Army																											13.1.4Rhodesian Light Infantry and 7 Independent Company																											13.1.5Russian "Foreign Legion"																											13.1.6Spanish "Foreign Legion"																											13.1.7Ukrainian International Legion & Georgian Legion
In September 1990, the 1st Foreign Regiment, the 1st Foreign Cavalry Regiment, the 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment, the 2nd Foreign Infantry Regiment, and the 6th Foreign Engineer Regiment were sent to the Persian Gulf as a part of Opération Daguet along with the 1st Spahi Regiment, the 11th Marine Artillery Regiment, the 3rd Marine Infantry Regiment, the 21st Marine Infantry Regiment, the French Army Light Aviation, the Régiment d'infanterie-chars de marine, and components of the 35th Parachute Artillery Regiment, the 1st Parachute Hussard Regiment, and the 17th Parachute Engineer Regiment. Division Daguet was commanded by Général de brigade Bernard Janvier.
On 9 June 1854, the French ship Jean Bart embarked four battalions of the Foreign Legion for the Crimean Peninsula. A further battalion was stationed at Gallipoli as brigade depot.[21] Eight companies drawn from both regiments of the Foreign Legion took part in the Battle of Alma (20 September 1854). Reinforcements by sea brought the Legion contingent up to brigade strength. As the "Foreign Brigade", it served in the Siege of Sevastopol, during the winter of 1854–1855.
^ "French Foreign Legion Traditions". Foreign Legion Info. 30 June 2016.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Le saviez-vous ? Les militaires aussi ont leurs saints patrons!". Ministère des Armées. 21 January 2022.
A Caporal-chef, with 3 chevrons of seniority, bugling during the Bastille Day Military Parade.[88]
^ a b Douglas Porch, page 418, The French Foreign Legion. A Complete History, ISBN 0-333-58500-3
The Foreign Legion is the only unit of the French Army open to people of any nationality. Most legionnaires still come from European countries but a growing percentage comes from Latin America and Asia.[57] Most of the Foreign Legion's commissioned officers are French with approximately 10% being Legionnaires who have risen through the ranks.[58]
Roger Rousseau, The French Foreign Legion in Kolwezi, 2006. ISBN 978-2-9526927-1-7
^ Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. pp. 3–4. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
"Les chants du 1er RE et des compagnies". Archived from the original on 3 October 2015. Retrieved 5 August 2015.
Sous-officiers (NCOs) including warrant officers account for 25% of the current Foreign Legion's total manpower.
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 43. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
Central African Republic Civil War (2012–2021)Central African Republic conflict (2013–2014)Operation Sangaris (2013–2016)European Union Military Operation in the Central African Republic (2014–2015)
"Les missions de l'armée de Terre | Sengager.fr". www.sengager.fr (in French). Retrieved 27 March 2022.
^ Pages 38–41 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945, Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
With the start of the War in Algeria on 1 November 1954, the two foreign participating parachute battalions back from Indochina, the 1st Foreign Parachute Battalion (1er BEP, III Formation) and the 2nd Foreign Parachute Battalion (2ème BEP), were not part of any French parachute divisions yet and were not designated as regiments until September and 1 December 1955 respectively.
"La Legión asume el mando en Líbano tras culminar Infantería de Marina su misión"
The "Legionnaire's Code of Honour"[70][71] is the Legion's creed, recited in French only.[72][73] The Code of Honour was adopted in the 1980s.[70]
From 1882 until his capture, Samori Ture, ruler of the Wassoulou Empire, fought the French colonial army, defeating them on several occasions, including a notable victory at Woyowayanko (2 April 1882), in the face of French heavy artillery. Nonetheless, Samori was forced to sign several treaties ceding territory to the French between 1886 and 1889. Samori began a steady retreat, but the fall of other resistance armies, particularly Babemba Traoré at Sikasso, permitted the colonial army to launch a concentrated assault against his forces. A battalion of two companies from the 2nd Foreign Regiment was created in early 1894 to pacify the Niger. The Legionnaires' victory at the fortress of Ouilla and police patrols in the region accelerated the submission of the tribes. On 29 September 1898, Samori Ture was captured by the French Commandant Gouraud and exiled to Gabon, marking the end of the Wassoulou Empire.
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.1Conquest of Algeria 1830–1847																											1.2Carlist War 1835–1839																											1.3Crimean War																											1.4Italian Campaign 1859																											1.5Mexican Expedition 1863–1867																											1.6Franco-Prussian War 1870																											1.7Tonkin Campaign and Sino-French War 1883–1888																											1.8Colonization of Africa																								1.8.1Second Franco-Dahomean War 1892–1894																											1.8.2Second Madagascar Expedition 1894–1895																											1.8.3Mandingo War 1898																														1.9Marching Regiments of the Foreign Legion																								1.9.1World War I 1914–1918																											1.9.2Interwar period 1918–1939																											1.9.3World War II 1939–1945																											1.9.4Alsace-Lorraine																														1.10First Indochina War 1946–1954																											1.11Algerian War 1954–1962																								1.11.1Foreign Legion paratroops																											1.11.2Generals' putsch and reduction of Foreign Legion																														1.12Post-colonial Africa																											1.131962–present																								1.13.1Gulf War 1990–1991																											1.13.2Post 1991																														1.142001–present
^ Maurin, Jean, Général (4 November 2016). "La Légion ne pleure pas ses morts, elle les honore !". French Foreign legion (in French). Archived from the original on 7 October 2019. Retrieved 7 October 2019.
Legionnaires are highly trained soldiers and the Legion is unique in that it is open to foreign recruits willing to serve in the French Armed Forces. The Legion is known today as a unit whose training focuses on traditional military skills and on its strong esprit de corps, as its men come from different countries with different cultures. Consequently, training is often described as not only physically challenging, but also very stressful psychologically. French citizenship may be applied for after three years' service.[11] Any soldier who is wounded during a battle for France can immediately apply to be a French citizen under a provision known as "Français par le sang versé" ("French by spilled blood").[11]
"La Moncloa. 20/09/2017. "La Legión is one of the units most highly recognised and loved by the people of Spain", says María Dolores de Cospedal [Government/News]". www.lamoncloa.gob.es. Retrieved 2 May 2022.
Bernard B. Fall (1994). Street Without Joy: The French Debacle in Indochina. Stackpole Books. p. 279. ISBN 978-0-8117-1700-7.
^ "Is Foreign Legion still an elite, international fighting force?". RFI. 11 March 2021. Retrieved 14 January 2022.
"Les chants du 1er RE et des compagnies: Les Képis Blancs"
Groupement de Recrutement de la Légion Etrangère (G.R.L.E), based at Fort de Nogent, France
^ "Foreign Legion – Recruiting". Legion-recrute.com. Archived from the original on 22 November 2013.
AuPasCamarade (8 October 2012). "Légion Etrangère – Le salut au Caïd". Archived from the original on 11 December 2021 – via YouTube.
Jean-Dominique Merchet. "Secret Défense – La Légion étrangère s'accroche à ses effectifs – Libération.fr". liberation.fr. Archived from the original on 11 December 2014. Retrieved 6 November 2008.
^ Drew Hinshaw and David Gauthier-Villars (15 January 2013). "France Widens Military Effort in Mali". The Wall Street Journal.{{cite news}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
1e REG: Honneur et Fidélité and Ad Unum (All to one end – for the regiment until the last one)
^ Martin Windrow (2010). The French Foreign Legion 1872–1914. Osprey. pp. 44–45. ISBN 978-1-84908-326-3.
"Georgian Legion join Ukraine Armed Force". Ukrinform. 24 February 2016. Retrieved 3 February 2019.
Legionnaires parachute from a C-160 while training at Camp Raffalli in Corsica.
"History of the 2e REP, the 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment 1er Régiment Etranger de Parachutiste"
Officers wore the same dark blue (almost black) tunics as those of their colleagues in the French line regiments, except that black replaced red as a facing colour on collar and cuffs.[113] Gold fringed epaulettes were worn for full dress and rank was shown by the number of gold rings on both kepi and cuffs. Trousers were red with black stripes or white according to occasion or conditions. All-white or light khaki uniforms (from as early as the 1890s) were often worn in the field or for ordinary duties in barracks.[114] Non-commissioned officers were distinguished by red or gold diagonal stripes on the lower sleeves of tunics, vestes and greatcoats.[115] Small detachable stripes were buttoned on to the front of the white shirt-like blouse.
Snipers of the 2nd Foreign Infantry Regiment (2èmeREI) using a PGM Hécate and a FR-F2 in Afghanistan in 2005
Hay, Andrew; Nickel, Rod (1 March 2022). "Americans, Canadians answer Ukraine call for foreign fighters". Reuters.
^ "The Georgians of Ukraine. Who are they? • Ukraїner ∙ Expedition through Ukraine!". Ukraїner ∙ Expedition through Ukraine!. 11 August 2019. Retrieved 27 January 2020.
1981–1984 : Peacekeeping operations in Lebanon at the corps of the United Nations Multinational Force during the Lebanese Civil War along with the 31ème Brigade which included the 1st Foreign Regiment 1er RE. Operation Épaulard I was spearheaded by Lieutenant-colonel Bernard Janvier. The Multinational Force also included the British Armed Forces 1st The Queen's Dragoon Guards, U.S. American contingents of United States Marine Corps and the United States Navy, the French Navy and 28 exclusive French Armed Forces regiments including French paratroopers regiments, companies, units of the 11th Parachute Brigade along with the 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment 2e REP. The multinational force also included the Irish Armed Forces and units of the French National Gendarmerie, Italian paratroopers from the Folgore Brigade, and infantry units from the Bersaglieri regiments and Marines of the San Marco Battalion.
^ French rank Sergent-Major (similar to Sergeant Major), existed until 1971 and could come close to but is not like the French rank of Major. The last Sergent-Major retired in 1985
After the four-week air campaign, coalition forces launched the ground offensive. They quickly penetrated deep into Iraq, with the Legion taking the As-Salman Airport, meeting little resistance. The war ended after a hundred hours of fighting on the ground, which resulted in very light casualties for the Legion. During war, French Foreign Legion engineers operated in support of the U.S. Army's 82nd Airborne Division, and provided the EOD services to the division. After the ceasefire, they conducted a joint mine clearing operation with a Royal Australian Navy clearance divers.
Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "Code d'honneur du légionnaire". YouTube.
^ a b c "Les missions de l'armée de Terre | Sengager.fr". www.sengager.fr (in French). Retrieved 27 March 2022.
1.11Algerian War 1954–1962																								1.11.1Foreign Legion paratroops																											1.11.2Generals' putsch and reduction of Foreign Legion
Initial training of 4–6 weeks at The Farm (La Ferme) – introduction to military lifestyle; outdoor and field activities.
"Spain arrests eight nationals for fighting with pro-Russia separatists in Ukraine"
Okorokova, Lidia (25 November 2010). "Russia's new Foreign Legion". The Moscow News. Archived from the original on 5 April 2012. Retrieved 17 July 2011.
^ TheMarches09 (8 February 2010). "Marche de la Légion / Le Boudin". Archived from the original on 11 December 2021 – via YouTube.
^ Joy Lichfield (13 October 2000). "Women can run off and join the Legion". The Independent.
"Foreign Fighters Are Rushing to Join Ukraine's New International Battalion". www.vice.com. Retrieved 7 May 2022.
This page was last edited on 17 March 2023, at 22:48 (UTC).
3e Régiment Étranger d’Infanterie (3ème REI), based in French GuianaPionniers Groups
2e Régiment Étranger de Génie 2ème REG; Parachute Underwater Demolition P.C.G Teams (Combat Engineer Divers, French: Plongeurs du Combat du Génie), DINOPS Teams of Nautical Subaquatic Intervention Operational Detachment (French: Détachement d'Intervention Nautique Operationnelle Subaquatique) and Mountain Commando Group (GCM) in some cases as double specialties.[55]
March (Marche Képi Blanc) – a 50-kilometer (31 mi) two-day march (25 km per day) in full kit, followed by the Kepi Blanc ceremony on the 3rd day.
"Les chants du 1er RE et des compagnies: Les Képis Blancs". Archived from the original on 18 September 2016. Retrieved 5 August 2015.
"The Georgians of Ukraine. Who are they? • Ukraїner ∙ Expedition through Ukraine!". Ukraїner ∙ Expedition through Ukraine!. 11 August 2019. Retrieved 27 January 2020.
Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. pp. 11–13. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
"Notice descriptive des nouveaux uniformes. (Décision ministérielle du 9 décembre 1914 mise à jour avec le modificatif du 28 janvier 1915)"
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 39. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
^ Binda, Alexandre (May 2008). The Saints: The Rhodesian Light Infantry. Johannesburg: 30° South Publishers. pp. 186–188. ISBN 978-1-920143-07-7.
Blackwell, Tom (9 March 2022). "Exclusive: So many Canadian fighters in Ukraine, they have their own battalion, source says". National Post.
4e R.E: Honneur et Fidélité and Creuset de la Légion et Régiment des fortes têtes (The crucible of the Legion and the strong right minded regiment)
5Traditions											Toggle Traditions subsection																					5.1Code of honour																											5.2Mottos																								5.2.1Honneur et Fidélité																											5.2.2Legio Patria Nostra																											5.2.3Regimental mottos																														5.3Insignia
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 42. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
In the Foreign Legion (1910) – by Erwin Rosen (born 1876)
^ a b Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. p. 124. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
^ a b c d e f g Wharton, James. "Can I run away and join the French Foreign Legion?". Forces Network. Retrieved 2 March 2022.
Maurin, Jean, Général (4 November 2016). "La Légion ne pleure pas ses morts, elle les honore !". French Foreign legion (in French). Archived from the original on 7 October 2019. Retrieved 7 October 2019.
Pages 44–46"La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945", Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
No further promotions are given to non-French Legionnaires on attaining the rank of Adjudant-Chef, unless they become naturalized citizens of France. In 2016, of those Foreign Legion Officers serving at Foreign Titles (French: Officiers servant à titre étranger), 10% were seconded officers from the ranks.[69]
"French Foreign Legion Traditions". Foreign Legion Info. 30 June 2016.
2e Régiment Étranger d’Infanterie (2ème REI), based in Nîmes, France
^ a b Binda, Alexandre (May 2008). The Saints: The Rhodesian Light Infantry. Johannesburg: 30° South Publishers. p. 126. ISBN 978-1-920143-07-7.
^ Page 41 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945", Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
^ "La Moncloa. 20/09/2017. "La Legión is one of the units most highly recognised and loved by the people of Spain", says María Dolores de Cospedal [Government/News]". www.lamoncloa.gob.es. Retrieved 2 May 2022.
"Is Foreign Legion still an elite, international fighting force?". RFI. 11 March 2021. Retrieved 14 January 2022.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m
"Is Foreign Legion still an elite, international fighting force?". RFI. 11 March 2021. Retrieved 29 January 2022.
^ Windrow, Martin (26 March 1999). French Foreign Legion 1814–1945. p. 40. ISBN 1-85532-761-9.
In 1892, King Behanzin was threatening the French protectorate of Porto-Novo in modern-day Benin and France decided to intervene. A battalion, led by commandant Faurax Montier, was formed from two companies of the First Foreign Regiment and two others from the second regiment. From Cotonou, the legionnaires marched to seize Abomey, the capital of the Kingdom of Dahomey. Two and a half months were needed to reach the city, at the cost of repeated battles against the Dahomean warriors, especially the Amazons of the King. King Behanzin surrendered and was captured by the legionnaires in January 1894.
From 1965 to 1967, the Legion operated several companies, including the 5th Heavy Weight Transport Company (CTGP), mainly in charge of evacuating the Sahara. The area of responsibility of some of these units extended from the confines of the in-between of the Sahara to the Mediterranean. Ongoing interventions and rapid deployments two years later and the following years included in part:
^ a b "Is Foreign Legion still an elite, international fighting force?". RFI. 11 March 2021. Retrieved 29 January 2022.
The Pionniers (pioneers) are the combat engineers and a traditional unit of the Foreign Legion. The sapper traditionally sport large beards, wear leather aprons and gloves and hold axes. The sappers were very common in European armies during the Napoleonic Era but progressively disappeared during the 19th century. The French Army, including the Legion disbanded its regimental sapper platoons in 1870. However, in 1931 one of a number of traditions restored to mark the hundredth anniversary of the Legion's founding was the reestablishment of its bearded Pionniers.[94]
^ Rowley, Jim (22 January 2021). "The Entire Hitman Timeline Explained". Looper.com. Retrieved 16 October 2021.
^ "..:: ---> LA LEGIÓN - ENTRA EN LA LEYENDA". 23 December 2005. Archived from the original on 23 December 2005. Retrieved 2 May 2022.
^ Note that in the French language, the designation of "Mounted Company" (French: Compagnie Portée) means mounted and could be applied for both Motorized or Mounted by other means. The designation of "Motorized Company" (French: Compagnie Motorisée) would be strictly limited to being motorized which is not the word being used even if it was motorized. The referral of "Mounted" Saharan Companies (French: Compagnie Saharienne "Portée") is used instead of motorized strictly, even if these units were motorized, to also describe the packing of artillery. The companies could be described as Motorized Saharan Companies of the Legion; however their strict French limitation to motorized only in terms of translation and function would be incorrect as they should be referred to as "Mounted" which would apply for both Motorized or mounting other means.
Shortly before his death, Seeger wrote, "I have a rendez-vous with Death, at some disputed barricade. ... And I to my pledged word am true, I shall not fail that rendezvous."
The United States allows post-Legion enlistment in its National Guard of career soldiers (up to the rank of captain) who are Green Card holders.
^ Jean., Des Vallières (1963). Et voici la Legion Etrangere. Éditions André Bonne. OCLC 155659405.; Anthony Clayton, "France, Soldiers, and Africa," Brassey's, 1988.
Porch, Douglas (1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History of the Legendary Fighting Force. HarperCollins Canada, Limited. p. 531. ISBN 978-1616080686.
"L'essentiel sur la Légion". www.legion-etrangere.com (in French). Retrieved 11 January 2022.[permanent dead link]
"Contre les Viêts" (song of the 13th Demi-Brigade of the Foreign Legion after having been the marching song adopted by the 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment)
Moorcraft, Paul L.; McLaughlin, Peter (April 2008) [1982]. The Rhodesian War: A Military History. Barnsley: Pen and Sword Books. p. 52. ISBN 978-1-84415-694-8.
^ Kent, Arthur; Brokaw, Tom (13 November 1990). "French Foreign Legion Prepares for Persian Gulf War" (Video News Report). NBC Nightly News. NBCUniversal Media, LLC. Retrieved 7 December 2014. Glen Slick is an American bearing arms for President Mitterrand, not President Bush. He's one of 27 nationalities here with the French Foreign Legion.
As of 2008, legionnaires came from 140 countries. The majority of enlisted men originate from outside France, while the majority of the officer corps consists of Frenchmen. Many recruits originate from Eastern Europe[where?] and Latin America[where?]. Neil Tweedie of The Daily Telegraph said that Germany traditionally provided many recruits, "somewhat ironically given the Legion's bloody role in two world wars."
After the Rhodesians' overseas recruiting campaign for English-speakers, started in 1974, proved successful, they began recruiting French-speakers as well, in 1977. These francophone recruits were placed in their own unit, 7 Independent Company, Rhodesia Regiment, which was commanded by French-speaking officers and operated entirely in French. The experiment was not generally considered a success by the Rhodesian commanders, however, and the company was disbanded in early 1978.[136]
European Union Military Operation in the Central African Republic (2014–2015)
Though not named "Foreign Legion", the Dutch Koninklijk Nederlandsch-Indische Leger (KNIL), or Royal Dutch (East) Indies Army (in reference to the Dutch East Indies, now Indonesia), was created in 1830, a year before the French Foreign Legion, and is therefore not an emulation but an entirely original idea and had a similar recruitment policy. It stopped being an army of foreigners around 1900 when recruitment was restricted to Dutch citizens and to the indigenous peoples of the Dutch East Indies. The KNIL was finally disbanded on 26 July 1950, seven months after the Netherlands formally recognised Indonesia as a sovereign state, and almost five years after Indonesia declared its independence.[131]
"Contracts & career within the legion | Légion étrangère". www.legion-recrute.com. Retrieved 12 January 2022.
The Syria–Lebanon Campaign of June 1941 saw legionnaire fighting legionnaire as the 13e D.B.L.E clashed with the 6th Foreign Infantry Regiment 6e REI at Damascus. Nevertheless, many legionnaires of the 6th Foreign Infantry Regiment 6e (dissolved on 31 December 1941) integrated into the Marching Regiment of the Foreign Legion R.M.L.E in 1942. Later, a thousand of the rank-and-file of the Vichy Legion unit joined the 13e D.B.L.E. of the Free French forces which were also part (as of September 1944) of Jean de Lattre de Tassigny's successful amalgam of the French Liberation Army (French: Armée française de la Libération), the (400,000 men) amalgam consisted of the Armistice Army, the Free French Forces and the French Forces of the Interior which formed Army B and later became part of the French 1st Army with forces also issued from the French Resistance.
In contrast to all other French Army units, the motto embroidered on the Foreign Legion's regimental flags is not Honneur et Patrie (Honour and Fatherland) but Honneur et Fidélité (Honour and Fidelity).[74]
^ a b Windrow, Martin (2013). The Foreign Legion. Osprey Publishing Ltd. ISBN 978-1-4728-0636-9. OCLC 881163349.
^ Jean-Denis G. G. Lepage (28 January 2008). The Foreign Legion: An Illustrated History. McFarland. p. 170. ISBN 978-0-7864-3239-4.
The high percentage of Germans was contrary to normal policy concerning a single dominant nationality, and in more recent times Germans have made up a much smaller percentage of the Foreign Legion's composition.[40]
^ Hay, Andrew; Nickel, Rod (1 March 2022). "Americans, Canadians answer Ukraine call for foreign fighters". Reuters.
"La Moncloa. 20/09/2017. "La Legión is one of the units most highly recognised and loved by the people of Spain", says María Dolores de Cospedal [Government/News]"
^ Moudjahid, El (3 May 2018), "La Légion étrangère démoralisée", Écrits sur l'aliénation et la liberté, La Découverte, pp. 557–564, doi:10.3917/dec.fanon.2018.01.0557, ISBN 9782348036262, retrieved 28 February 2022
^ Sharpe, Michael. (2008) Waffen SS Elite Forces 1: Leibstandarte and Das Reich (p. 183) ISBN 978-0-7858-2323-0.
^ Martin Windrow (1981). Uniforms of the French Foreign Legion 1831–1981. Blandford. p. 18. ISBN 978-0-7137-1010-6.
^ Pages 44–46"La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945", Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
Mainland France1er Régiment Étranger (1er RE), based in Aubagne, France (HQ, selection and administration, other specific missions)Pionniers Sections of Tradition1er Régiment Étranger de Cavalerie (1er REC), based in Camp de Carpiagne [fr], France1er Régiment Étranger de Génie (1er REG), based in Laudun, FrancePionniers Groups2e Régiment Étranger d’Infanterie (2ème REI), based in Nîmes, France2e Régiment Étranger de Génie (2ème REG), based in St Christol, FrancePionniers Groups2e Régiment Étranger de Parachutistes (2ème REP), based in Calvi, Corsica4e Régiment Étranger (4èmeRE), based in Castelnaudary, FrancePionniers GroupsGroupement de Recrutement de la Légion Etrangère (G.R.L.E), based at Fort de Nogent, France13e Demi-Brigade de Légion Étrangère (13ème DBLE), based in La Cavalerie, France
Regarding the operational aspect, the units of the Legion belong to different brigades or territorial commands of the French Army.[52] On the other hand, with regard to the administrative management (including recruitment, traditions and training), these units depend on the Foreign Legion Command (COMLE), which itself is subordinate to the Army.[53]
^ Neeno, Timothy. "The French Intervention in Mexico (1862–67)". Military History Online. Retrieved 26 February 2011.
As of 2021, members come from 140 countries. Legionnaires were, in the past, forced to enlist under a pseudonym ("declared identity"). This policy existed in order to allow recruits who wanted to restart their lives to enlist. The Legion held the belief that it was fairer to make all new recruits use declared identities.[11] French citizens can enlist under a declared, fictitious, foreign citizenship (generally, a francophone one, often that of Belgium, Canada, or Switzerland).[59] As of 20 September 2010, new recruits may enlist under their real identities or under declared identities. Recruits who do enlist with declared identities may, after one year's service, regularise their situations under their true identities.[60] After serving in the Foreign Legion for three years, a legionnaire may apply for French citizenship.[11] He must be serving under his real name, must have no problems with the authorities, and must have served with "honour and fidelity".[60]
While all rank and file members of the Legion are required to serve under "Foreign Status" (à titre étranger), even if they are French nationals, non-commissioned and commissioned officers can serve under either French or Foreign Status.[11] Foreign Status NCOs and officers are exclusively promoted from the ranks and represent 10% of the officers corps of the Legion.[69] French Status officers are either members of other units of the French Army attached to the Legion or promoted Legionnaires who have chosen to become French nationals.
12Command											Toggle Command subsection																					12.1French Foreign Legion command (1931–1984)																								12.1.1Inspector Tenure																											12.1.2Autonomous Group Tenure																											12.1.3Command Tenure																											12.1.4Technical Inspection Tenure																											12.1.5Groupment Tenure																														12.2Commandement de la Légion Étrangère (1984–present)																								12.2.1Command Tenure
^ "L'essentiel sur la Légion". www.legion-etrangere.com (in French). Retrieved 11 January 2022.[permanent dead link]
^ Douglas Porch (1 January 1991). The French Foreign Legion: A Complete History. p. 1. ISBN 978-0-333-58500-9.
^ Page 42 "La Legion Etrangere 1831/1945", Raymond Guyader, Hors Serie No. 6 Gazette des Uniformes 1997
"Chant du régiment". Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 5 August 2015.
^ 20minutos (31 October 2006). "La Legión asume el mando en Líbano tras culminar Infantería de Marina su misión". www.20minutos.es - Últimas Noticias (in Spanish). Retrieved 2 May 2022.
René Chartrand, The Mexican Adventure 1861–67, page 19, ISBN 9781855324305
Joseph Harrison, David Corkill (2004). "Spain: a modern European economy". Ashgate Publishing. p. 23. ISBN 0-7546-0145-5
^ Whitehouse, Mark (6 November 2010). "Number of the Week: $10.2 Trillion in Global Borrowing". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on 20 September 2017.
"572 millones de personas hablan español, cinco millones más que hace un año, y aumentarán a 754 millones a mediados de siglo". www.cervantes.es. Archived from the original on 13 May 2021.
^ Amorós Negre, Carla (2016), "The spread of Castilian/Spanish in Spain and the Americas: A relatively successful language standardisation experience", Sociolinguistica: Internationales Jahrbuch für Europäische Soziolinguistik=International Yearbook of European Sociolinguistics=Annuaire International de la Sociolinguistique Européenne, 1 (30): 26–28, ISSN 0933-1883
"Rival nationalisms in a plurinational state: Spain, Catalonia and the Basque Country"
^ "Analysis of 8 years of Gender Violence Law in Spain | Gender violence and justice". justiciadegenero.com. 4 March 2015. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017. Retrieved 9 May 2017.
Naimark, Norman (2016). Genocide: A World History. Oxford University Press. p. 35. ISBN 978-0-19-976526-3.
"These Are the Economies With the Most (and Least) Efficient Health Care"
^ Lauren A. Benton (1990). Invisible Factories: The Informal Economy and Industrial Development in Spain. SUNY Press.
Henry Kamen, Spain, 1469-1714: a society of conflict (Routledge, 2014).
^ "The History of the Guitar in Spain". Linguatics.com. Archived from the original on 29 April 2011. Retrieved 30 April 2011.
^ "How Spain became the world leader in organ transplants". www.thelocal.es. 15 September 2017. Retrieved 23 June 2019.
The Spanish State is divided into 17 autonomous communities and 2 autonomous cities, both groups being the highest or first-order administrative division in the country. Autonomous communities are divided into provinces, of which there are 50 in total, and in turn, provinces are divided into municipalities. In Catalonia, two additional divisions exist, the comarques (sing. comarca) and the vegueries (sing. vegueria) both of which have administrative powers; comarques being aggregations of municipalities, and the vegueries being aggregations of comarques. The concept of a comarca exists in all autonomous communities, however, unlike Catalonia, these are merely historical or geographical subdivisions.
^ Recent Migration of Roma in Europe, A study by Mr. Claude Cahn and Professor Elspeth Guild Archived 25 May 2017 at the Wayback Machine, pp. 87–88 (09.2010 figures)
State education in Spain is free and compulsory from the age of six to sixteen. The current education system is regulated by the 2006 educational law, LOE (Ley Orgánica de Educación), or Fundamental Law for the Education.[247] In 2014, the LOE was partially modified by the newer and controversial LOMCE law (Ley Orgánica para la Mejora de la Calidad Educativa), or Fundamental Law for the Improvement of the Education System, commonly called Ley Wert (Wert Law).[248] Since 1970 to 2014, Spain has had seven different educational laws (LGE, LOECE, LODE, LOGSE, LOPEG, LOE and LOMCE).[249]
The legislative branch is made up of the Congress of Deputies (Congreso de los Diputados), a lower house with 350 members, elected by popular vote on block lists by proportional representation to serve four-year terms, and the Senate (Senado), an upper house with 259 seats of which 208 are directly elected by popular vote, using a limited voting method, and the other 51 appointed by the regional legislatures to also serve four-year terms.
Angel Alañón & M. Gómez-Antonio, [Estimating the size of the shadow economy in Spain: a structural model with latent variables], Applies Economics, Vol 37, Issue 9, pp. 1011–1025 (2005).
^ "Surface water and surface water change". Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Retrieved 11 October 2020.
Two big revolts broke out during the early reign of the Habsburg emperor, Charles V: the Revolt of the Comuneros in the Crown of Castile and Revolt of the Brotherhoods in the Crown of Aragon.
^ "BOCAe32.QXD" (PDF) (in Catalan). Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 July 2009. Retrieved 20 July 2009.
^ "European Green Capital". Europa (web portal). Archived from the original on 18 December 2013.
The next military authorities in line are the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence. The fourth military authority of the State is the Chief of the Defence Staff (JEMAD).[143] The Defence Staff (Estado Mayor de la Defensa) assists the JEMAD as auxiliary body.
In June 2018, the Congress of Deputies passed a motion of no-confidence against Rajoy and replaced him with the PSOE leader Pedro Sánchez.[115]
Alonso Villalobos, Carlos (1984). "Contribución al estudio de las invasiones mauritanas de la Bética en el siglo II" (PDF). Actas del II Congreso Andaluz deEstudios Clásicos. Vol. II. Sociedad Española de Estudios Clásicos.
The semi-arid climate (BSk, BSh), is predominant in the southeastern quarter of the country, but is also widespread in other areas of Spain. It covers most of the Region of Murcia, southern Valencia and eastern Andalusia. Further to the north, it is predominant in the upper and mid reaches of the Ebro valley, which crosses southern Navarre, central Aragon and western Catalonia. It also is found in Madrid, Extremadura, Castilla-La Mancha, and some locations of western Andalusia. The dry season extends beyond the summer and average temperature depends on altitude and latitude.
^ "Unidad de Policía de la Comunidad Autónoma de Andalucía" (in Spanish). Cartujo.org. Archived from the original on 7 November 2007. Retrieved 23 October 2007.
ABC (28 August 2014). ""I-span-ya", el misterioso origen de la palabra España". Archived from the original on 13 November 2016.
#Linch, John (director), Fernández Castro, María Cruz (del segundo tomo), Historia de España, El País, volumen II, La península Ibérica en época prerromana, p. 40. Dossier. La etimología de España; ¿tierra de conejos?, ISBN 978-84-9815-764-2
^ Beck, Bernard (24 September 2012). True Jew: Challenging the Stereotype. Algora Publishing. ISBN 9780875869032 – via Google Books.
^ "Estatut" (PDF) (in Spanish). Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 March 2009. Retrieved 20 July 2009.
The year 1492 also marked the arrival of Christopher Columbus in the New World, during a voyage funded by Isabella. Columbus's first voyage crossed the Atlantic and reached the Caribbean Islands, beginning the European exploration and conquest of the Americas, although Columbus remained convinced that he had reached the Orient. Large numbers of indigenous Americans died in battle against the Spaniards during the conquest,[65] while more died from various new Eurasian diseases that travelled more quickly than the Spanish conquerors. The death toll during the initial period of Spanish conquest, from Columbus's initial landing until the mid 16th century, is estimated as high as 70 million indigenous people out of a population of 80 million, as imported diseases such as smallpox, measles, influenza, and typhus decimated the pre-Columbian population. Disease killed between 50% and 95% of the indigenous population.[66][k]
^ "Spain becomes solar power world leader". Europeanfutureenergyforum.com. 14 July 2010. Archived from the original on 24 November 2010. Retrieved 4 September 2010.
A centralisation of royal power ensued in the Early Modern Period at the expense of local nobility, and the word España, whose root is the ancient name Hispania, began to be commonly used to designate the whole of the two kingdoms.[failed verification][dubious– discuss][62]With their wide-ranging political, legal, religious and military reforms, the Hispanic Monarchy emerged as a world power.
"Federación de Entidades Religiosas Evangélicas de España – FEREDE". Ferede.org. Archived from the original on 30 September 2011. Retrieved 4 September 2010.
Payne, Stanley G. (1973). "A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 1 Ancient Hispania". The Library of Iberian Resources Online. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ INE Archived 23 July 2013 at the Wayback Machine, 2011.
^ Yuste, Javier (13 December 2019). "Viaje por la cara B del cine español". El Cultural – via El Español.
"Gini coefficient of equivalised disposable income – EU-SILC survey". ec.europa.eu. Eurostat. Retrieved 7 August 2022.
^ UK Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (1999). "Partnership for Progress and Prosperity: Britain and the Overseas Territories. Appendix 1: Profiles for Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands & Gibraltar" (PDF). Partnership for Progress and Prosperity: Britain and the Overseas Territories. Archived from the original (PDF) on 13 December 2005. Retrieved 19 December 2005.
"La Fuerza del Mar". revista.consumer.es. Archived from the original on 26 August 2011. Retrieved 5 June 2011.
Medina García, Eusebio (2006). «Orígenes históricos y ambigüedad de la frontera hispano-lusa (La Raya)» Archived 25 May 2017 at the Wayback Machine. Revista de Estudios Extremeños. Tomo LXII (II Mayo-Agosto). ISSN 0210-2854, pp. 713–723.
The decline culminated in a controversy over succession to the throne which consumed the first years of the 18th century. The War of the Spanish Succession was a wide-ranging international conflict combined with a civil war, and was to cost the kingdom its European possessions and its position as one of the leading powers on the Continent.[76]
"The Treaty of Granada, 1492". Islamic Civilisation. Archived from the original on 24 September 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
"Población extranjera por sexo, país de nacionalidad y edad". Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Archived from the original on 25 March 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
"La Formación Profesional actual en el sistema educativo – TodoFP│Ministerio de Educación y Formación Profesional" (in Spanish). Retrieved 26 November 2020.
^ The Spanish Constitution does not contain any one official name for Spain. Instead, the terms España (Spain), Estado español (Spanish State) and Nación española (Spanish Nation) are used throughout the document, sometimes interchangeably. In 1984, the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs established that the denominations España (Spain) and Reino de España (Kingdom of Spain) are equally valid to designate Spain in international treaties. The latter term is widely used by the government in national and international affairs of all kinds, including foreign treaties as well as national official documents, and is therefore recognised as the conventional name by many international organisations.[312]
^ Smillie, Susan (18 January 2010). "World's most expensive ham?". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 31 October 2019.
Mainland Spain is a rather mountainous landmass, dominated by high plateaus and mountain chains. After the Pyrenees, the main mountain ranges are the Cordillera Cantábrica (Cantabrian Range), Sistema Ibérico (Iberian System), Sistema Central (Central System), Montes de Toledo, Sierra Morena and the Sistema Bético (Baetic System) whose highest peak, the 3,478-metre-high (11,411-foot) Mulhacén, located in Sierra Nevada, is the highest elevation in the Iberian Peninsula. The highest point in Spain is the Teide, a 3,718-metre (12,198 ft) active volcano in the Canary Islands. The Meseta Central (often translated as 'Inner Plateau') is a vast plateau in the heart of peninsular Spain split in two by the Sistema Central.
^ Classen, Albrecht (31 August 2015). Handbook of Medieval Culture. Walter de Gruyter GmbH & Co KG. ISBN 9783110267303 – via Google Books.
Plan de Retorno Voluntario Archived 18 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine Gobierno de España
"Population Figures". Instituto Nacional de Estadística (National Statistics Institute). Archived from the original on 24 May 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ Fernández Liesa, Carlos R. (2004). "La cuestión de Olivenza, a la luz del Derecho internacional público" (PDF). Encuentros: Revista luso-española de investigadores en Ciencias humanas y sociales. Separatas. Ayuntamiento de Olivenza (4): 234–235. ISSN 1138-6622. Archived (PDF) from the original on 29 August 2014.
Further military action by Spanish armies, guerrilla warfare and an Anglo-Portuguese allied army, combined with Napoleon's failure on the Russian front, led to the retreat of French imperial armies from the Iberian Peninsula in 1814, and the return of King Ferdinand VII.[85]
"Beyond Bullfights and Sangria: Five Centuries of Spanish History through Its Music, Art, and Literature - UC San Diego Extension"
"Anuario estadístico de España 2008. 1ª parte: entorno físico y medio ambiente" (PDF). Instituto Nacional de Estadística (Spain). Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 14 April 2015.
^ Meaker, Gerald H. (1974). The Revolutionary Left in Spain, 1914–1923. Stanford University Press. p. 159 ff. ISBN 0-8047-0845-2.
"Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Estadística del Padrón Continuo". ine.es. Instituto Nacional de Estadística.
"Spain – Intangible Cultural Heritage". UNESCO Culture Sector. Archived from the original on 14 September 2014. Retrieved 14 September 2014.
Kamen, Henry (1999). The Spanish Inquisition: A Historical Revision. Yale University Press. pp. 29–31.
"La cuestión de Olivenza, a la luz del Derecho internacional público"
^ John Hooper, The New Spaniards, 2001, From Dictatorship to Democracy
During the Second Punic War, roughly between 210 and 205 BCE the expanding Roman Republic captured Carthaginian trading colonies along the Mediterranean coast. Although it took the Romans nearly two centuries to complete the conquest of the Iberian Peninsula, they retained control of it for over six centuries. Roman rule was bound together by law, language, and the Roman road.[33]
"Relatives of Spaniards who fled Franco granted citizenship". The Daily Telegraph. London. 28 December 2008. Archived from the original on 23 July 2013. Retrieved 18 January 2014.
Fred M. Shelley (2015). Governments around the World: From Democracies to Theocracies: From Democracies to Theocracies. ABC-CLIO. p. 197. ISBN 978-1-4408-3813-2.
^ Spain's letter to the UN (PDF) (in Spanish), UN, September 2013, archived (PDF) from the original on 25 May 2017
^ Antonova, N.V.; Myagkov, G.P; Nikolaeva, O.A (2019). "Genesis problem of philosophical thought in spanish historiography" (PDF). Utopía y Praxis Latinoamericana. Universidad del Zulia. 24 (5): 66–67.
^ "World Factbook EUROPE : SPAIN", The World Factbook, 12 July 2018
Jordan, Barry; Morgan-Tamosunas, Rikki (1998). Contemporary spanish cinema. Manchester University Press.
The unification of the crowns of Aragon and Castile by the marriage of their sovereigns laid the basis for modern Spain and the Spanish Empire, although each kingdom of Spain remained a separate country socially, politically, legally, and in currency and language.[68][69]
The executive branch consists of a Council of Ministers presided over by the Prime Minister, who is nominated as candidate by the monarch after holding consultations with representatives from the different parliamentary groups, voted in by the members of the lower house during an investiture session and then formally appointed by the monarch.
German companies poured €4.8 billion into Spain in 2015, making the country the second-largest destination for German foreign direct investment behind only the U.S. The lion's share of that investment—€4 billion—went to the country's auto industry.[174]
"Economy reaps benefits of entry to the 'club': Spain's euro bonanza"
"Big in America?". The Economist. Business. Madrid. 8 April 2009. Archived from the original on 12 April 2009. Retrieved 14 May 2009.
"The History of the Guitar in Spain". Linguatics.com. Archived from the original on 29 April 2011. Retrieved 30 April 2011.
Besides Spanish, other territorialized languages include Aragonese, Aranese, Astur-Leonese, Basque, Ceutan Arabic (Darija), Catalan, Galician, Portuguese and Tamazight, to which the Romani Caló and the sign languages may add up.[243] The number of speakers varies widely and their legal recognition is uneven, with some of the most vulnerable languages lacking any sort of effective protection.[244] Those enjoying recognition as official language in some autonomous communities include Catalan (in Catalonia, the Balearic Islands and the Valencian Community, where it is referred to as 'Valencian'); Galician (in Galicia); Basque (in the Basque Country and part of Navarre); and Aranese in Catalonia.
A constitution for the country was passed in October 1931 following the June 1931 Constituent general election, and a series of cabinets presided by Manuel Azaña supported by republican parties and the PSOE followed. In the election held in 1933 the right triumphed and in 1936, the left. During the Second Republic there was a great political and social upheaval, marked by a sharp radicalization of the left and the right. Instances of political violence during this period included the burning of churches, the 1932 failed coup d'état led by José Sanjurjo, the Revolution of 1934 and numerous attacks against rival political leaders. On the other hand, it is also during the Second Republic when important reforms to modernize the country were initiated: a democratic constitution, agrarian reform, restructuring of the army, political decentralization and women's right to vote.
"The Need for Speed–High Speed Rail in Europe: Do You Speak Spanish? Europe on Track". Blog.raileurope.com. Archived from the original on 2 February 2011. Retrieved 1 November 2011.
^ Paloma Aguilar, Carsten Humlebæk, "Collective Memory and National Identity in the Spanish Democracy: The Legacies of Francoism and the Civil War", History & Memory, 1 April 2002, pag. 121–164
"Spain powers ahead with high-speed rail". railpro.co.uk. January 2010. Archived from the original on 21 July 2011. Retrieved 5 June 2011.
There have been four Spanish Popes. Damasus I, Calixtus III, Alexander VI and Benedict XIII. Spanish mysticism provided an important intellectual resource against Protestantism with Carmelites like Teresa of Ávila, a reformist nun and John of the Cross, a priest, taking the lead in their reform movement. Later, they became Doctors of the Church. The Society of Jesus was co-founded by Ignatius of Loyola, whose Spiritual Exercises and movement led to the establishment of hundreds of colleges and universities in the world, including 28 in the United States alone. The Society's co-founder, Francis Xavier, was a missionary who reached India and later Japan. In the 1960s, Jesuits Pedro Arrupe and Ignacio Ellacuría supported the movement of Liberation Theology.[citation needed]
The levels of education are preschool education, primary education,[250] secondary education[251] and post-16 education.[252] In regards to the professional development education or the vocational education, there are three levels besides the university degrees: the Formación Profesional Básica (basic vocational education); the Ciclo Formativo de Grado Medio or CFGM (medium level vocation education) which can be studied after studying the secondary education, and the Ciclo Formativo de Grado Superior or CFGS (higher level vocational education), which can be studied after studying the post-16 education level.[253]
Inner Spain – Castile – hot, thick soups such as the bread and garlic-based Castilian soup, along with substantial stews such as cocido madrileño. Food is traditionally conserved by salting, such as Spanish ham, or immersed in olive oil, such as Manchego cheese.
"European Green Capital". Europa (web portal). Archived from the original on 18 December 2013.
Spanish companies invested in fields like renewable energy commercialisation (Iberdrola was the world's largest renewable energy operator[167]), technology companies like Telefónica, Abengoa, Mondragon Corporation (which is the world's largest worker-owned cooperative), Movistar, Hisdesat, Indra, train manufacturers like CAF, Talgo, global corporations such as the textile company Inditex, petroleum companies like Repsol or Cepsa and infrastructure, with six of the ten biggest international construction firms specialising in transport being Spanish, like Ferrovial, Acciona, ACS, OHL and FCC.[168]
On 1 January 2002, Spain fully adopted the euro, and Spain experienced strong economic growth, well above the EU average during the early 2000s. However, well-publicised concerns issued by many economic commentators at the height of the boom warned that extraordinary property prices and a high foreign trade deficit were likely to lead to a painful economic collapse.[98]
^ Moa, Pío (2010). Nueva historia de España : de la II Guerra Púnica al siglo XXI (1. ed.). Madrid: Esfera de los Libros. ISBN 978-84-9734-952-9.
Spanish Civil War fighters look back[permanent dead link], BBC News, 23 February 2003
Jaleel, Talib (11 July 2015). "Notes on Entering Deen Completely: Islam as its followers know it". EDC Foundation – via Google Books.
Sandford, Alasdair (27 October 2017). "Catalonia: what direct rule from Madrid could mean". euronews. Archived from the original on 27 October 2017. Retrieved 27 October 2017.
^ "Wind power in Spain breaks new instantaneous power record". renovablesmadeinspain.es. 9 November 2010. Archived from the original on 14 December 2011. Retrieved 5 June 2011.
Pike, A. W. G.; Hoffmann, D. L.; Garcia-Diez, M.; Pettitt, P. B.; Alcolea, J.; De Balbin, R.; Gonzalez-Sainz, C.; de las Heras, C.; Lasheras, J. A.; Montes, R.; Zilhao, J. (2012). "U-Series Dating of Paleolithic Art in 11 Caves in Spain". Science. 336 (6087): 1409–1413. Bibcode:2012Sci...336.1409P. doi:10.1126/science.1219957. ISSN 0036-8075. PMID 22700921. S2CID 7807664.
"Real Decreto 1560/1997, de 10 de octubre, por el que se regula el Himno Nacional"
"Catalonia independence: Rajoy dissolves Catalan parliament". BBC News. Barcelona, Madrid. 27 October 2017. Archived from the original on 28 October 2017. Retrieved 27 October 2017.
^ a b 580.000 personas se van de España Archived 15 November 2011 at the Wayback Machine. El País. Edición Impresa. 8 October 2011
The Muslim society was itself diverse and beset by social tensions. The North-African Berber peoples, who had provided the bulk of the invading armies, clashed with the Arab leadership from the Middle East.[j] Over time, large Moorish populations became established, especially in the Guadalquivir River valley, the coastal plain of Valencia, the Ebro River valley and (towards the end of this period) in the mountainous region of Granada.[42]
"Estatuto de Autonomía de Aragón". Narros.congreso.es. Archived from the original on 11 December 2009. Retrieved 20 July 2009.
In 1469, the crowns of the Christian kingdoms of Castile and Aragon were united by the marriage of their monarchs, Isabella I and Ferdinand II, respectively. 1478 commenced the completion of the conquest of the Canary Islands.In 1492, Jews were forced to choose between conversion to Catholicism or facing expulsion.[57] As a result, as many as 200,000 Jews were expelled from Castile and Aragon.[58][59][60] This was followed by expulsions in 1493 in Aragonese Sicily and Portugal in 1497. The Treaty of Granada guaranteed religious tolerance towards Muslims,[61] for a few years before Islam was outlawed in 1502 in Castile and 1527 in Aragon, leading the remaining Muslim population to become nominally Christian Moriscos. About four decades after the War of the Alpujarras (1568–1571), a significant proportion of the moriscos were expelled, settling primarily in North Africa.[62] From 1609 to 1614, over 300,000 Moriscos were sent on ships to North Africa and other locations, and, of this figure, around 50,000 died resisting the expulsion, and 60,000 died on the journey.[63][64]
^ ABC (28 August 2014). ""I-span-ya", el misterioso origen de la palabra España". Archived from the original on 13 November 2016.
Peter Gold (2005). Gibraltar: British or Spanish?. Routledge. p. 4. ISBN 978-0-415-34795-2.
Roberto A. Ferdman, Spain's Black Market Economy Is Worth 20% of Its GDP: One million Spanish people have jobs in the underground economy Archived 11 September 2017 at the Wayback Machine, The Atlantic (16 July 2013)
^ Majid, Anouar (24 September 2009). We are All Moors: Ending Centuries of Crusades Against Muslims and Other Minorities. U of Minnesota Press. ISBN 9780816660797 – via Google Books.
^ a b c d Méndez-Barreira, Victor (7 August 2016). "Car Makers Pour Money into Spain". Wall Street Journal.
^ "Population series from 1998". INE Spanish Statistical Institute. Archived from the original on 2 November 2007. Retrieved 14 August 2008.
Tremlett, Giles (5 September 2010). "Basque separatists Eta announce ceasefire". The Guardian. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
Other festivals include: La Tomatina tomato festival in Buñol, Valencia, the carnivals in the Canary Islands, the Falles in Valencia or the Holy Week in Andalusia and Castile and León.
"El Festival de San Sebastián y el de Málaga, entre las diez iniciativas culturales más importantes de España en 2021". Audiovisual451. 9 February 2022.
^ "Economic report" (PDF). Bank of Spain. Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 July 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
The 17th century in Spain was a period of major political, economic, and cultural upheaval and decline, despite a flourishing cultural Golden Age. Decline began with the death of King Philip III in 1621. This period of decline was marked by increased taxation, a weakened economy, and the loss of its status as a major European power. The 17th century also saw empire embroiled in a series of exhausting wars, including the Thirty Years War and the War of the Spanish Succession. These wars left Spain depleted and impoverished. The overseas colonies began to rebel against Spanish rule. At the same time, Spain experienced a period of cultural and intellectual flourishing, as the Spanish Golden Age produced some of the most renowned works of literature and art in history. The 17th century also saw the rise of the Inquisition, which sought to enforce religious conformity in the Spanish Empire. By 1700, Spain had lost much of its territory and influence.[72][73]
La Ley Orgánica 2/2006 Archived 25 May 2011 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 23 September 2009
La lengua de los dioses: Nueve razones para amar el griego
"Áreas urbanas +50". Ministry of Public Works and Transport. 2013. Archived from the original on 26 August 2014.
The waning of Romantic literature was followed by the development of Spanish Realism, which offered depictions of contemporary life and society 'as they were', rather than romanticised or stylised presentations.[citation needed] The major realist writer was Benito Pérez Galdós.[284] The second half of the 19th century also saw the resurgence of the literary use of local languages other than Spanish under cultural movements inspired by Romanticism such as the Catalan Renaixença or the Galician Rexurdimento.[285] Rarely used before in a written medium, the true fostering of the literary use of the Basque language had to wait until the 1960s, even if some interest towards the language had developed in the late 19th century.[286]
As in the rest of Europe during the Late Middle Ages, antisemitism greatly increased during the 14th century in the Christian kingdoms. (A key event in that regard was the Black Death, as Jews were accused of poisoning the waters.)[51] There were mass killings in Aragon in the mid-14th century, and 12,000 Jews were killed in Toledo. In 1391, Christian mobs went from town to town throughout Castile and Aragon, killing an estimated 50,000 Jews.[52][53] Women and children were sold as slaves to Muslims, and many synagogues were converted into churches. According to Hasdai Crescas, about 70 Jewish communities were destroyed.[54]
The civil war was viciously fought and there were many atrocities committed by all sides. The war claimed the lives of over 500,000 people and caused the flight of up to a half-million citizens from the country.[91][92] On 1 April 1939, five months before the beginning of World War II, the rebel side led by Franco emerged victorious, imposing a dictatorship over the whole country. Thousands of men and women were imprisoned after the civil war in Francoist concentration camps, with approximately 367,000 to 500,000 prisoners being held in 50 camps or prisons.
Apart from these main types, other sub-types can be found, like the alpine climate in areas with very high altitude, the humid subtropical climate in areas of northeastern Spain and the continental climates (Dfc, Dfb / Dsc, Dsb) in the Pyrenees as well as parts of the Cantabrian Range, the Central System, Sierra Nevada and the Iberian System, and a typical desert climate (BWk, BWh) in the zone of Almería, Murcia and eastern Canary Islands. Low-lying areas of the Canary Islands average above 18.0 °C (64.4 °F) during their coolest month, thus having a tropical climate.
^ Schaff, Philip (24 March 2015). "The Christian Church from the 1st to the 20th Century". Delmarva Publications, Inc. – via Google Books.
^David Ogg, Europe in the seventeenth century (1925), pp. 365-381.
Serrano Daura, Josep (2019). "Una aproximación a la Corona de Aragón de Fernando el Católico". Revista de Dret Històric Català. Societat Catalana d’Estudis Jurídics. 18 (18): 75. doi:10.2436/20.3004.01.119. ISSN 1578-5300.
^ "Educación Primaria │Ministerio de Educación y Formación Profesional" (in Spanish). Retrieved 26 November 2020.
^ "Beyond Bullfights and Sangria: Five Centuries of Spanish History through Its Music, Art, and Literature - UC San Diego Extension". Archived from the original on 25 November 2016. Retrieved 27 November 2016.
^ "Spain, main reference for world's Hispanic heritage". ABC.es. Madrid. 3 July 2014. Retrieved 8 June 2016.
"La Moncloa. 19/11/2019. Transporte y Vivienda [España/España Hoy 2018-2019/Otras políticas]"
Spain's letter to the UN (PDF) (in Spanish), UN, September 2013, archived (PDF) from the original on 25 May 2017
This period saw a contrast in landowning characteristics between the western and north-western territories in Andalusia, where the nobility and the religious orders succeeded into the creation of large latifundia entitled to them, whereas in the Kingdom of Granada (eastern Andalusia), a Crown-auspiciated distribution of the land to medium and small farmers took place.[55]
After the first projection of a cinematographer in Spain by 1896, cinema developed in the following years, with Barcelona becoming the largest production hub in the country (as well as a major European hub) on the eve of the World War I.[292] The conflict offered the Spanish industry of silent films an opportunity for further growth.[293] Local studios for sound films were created in 1932.[294] The government imposition of dubbing of foreign films in 1941 accustomed Spanish audiences to watching dubbed films.[295]
^ Abad, Francisco (2007). "La 'Edad de Plata' (1868-1936) y las generaciones de la Edad de Plata : cultura y filología" (PDF). Epos. Revista de Filología (23): 244–245.
^ "Life expectancy at birth, total (years) - Spain". World Bank. Retrieved 5 November 2021.
AFP (6 May 2018). "Spain's Bilbao fights to lead European wind power sector". The Local (in Spanish). Retrieved 6 July 2018.
^ Katina T. Lillios (5 December 2019). The Archaeology of the Iberian Peninsula: From the Paleolithic to the Bronze Age. Cambridge University Press. p. 65. ISBN 978-1-107-11334-3.
^ Tremlett, Giles (5 September 2010). "Basque separatists Eta announce ceasefire". The Guardian. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
Baby steps of Spanish Romantic literature (initially a rebellion against French classicism) have been traced back to the last quarter of the 18th century, even if the movement had its heyday between 1835 and 1850, waning thereafter.[281]
^ "Population in Europe in 2005" (PDF). Eurostat. Archived from the original (PDF) on 19 August 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
Autonomous communities are divided into provinces, which served as their territorial building blocks. In turn, provinces are divided into municipalities. The existence of both the provinces and the municipalities is guaranteed and protected by the constitution, not necessarily by the Statutes of Autonomy themselves. Municipalities are granted autonomy to manage their internal affairs, and provinces are the territorial divisions designed to carry out the activities of the State.[159]
In 2019, the population of Spain officially reached 47 million people, as recorded by the Padrón municipal (Spain's Municipal Register).[205] Spain's population density, at 91/km2 (235/sq mi), is lower than that of most Western European countries and its distribution across the country is very unequal. With the exception of the region surrounding the capital, Madrid, the most populated areas lie around the coast. The population of Spain has risen 2 1/2 times since 1900, when it stood at 18.6 million, principally due to the spectacular demographic boom in the 1960s and early 1970s.[206]
Minder, Raphael (June 2018). "Spain's Prime Minister, Mariano Rajoy, Is Ousted in No-Confidence Vote". The New York Times. Retrieved 18 June 2018.
The 2 May 1808 revolt was one of many uprisings across the country against the French occupation.[83] These revolts marked the beginning of a devastating war of independence against the Napoleonic regime.[84]
Francisco Goya painted during a historical period that includes the Spanish Independence War, the fights between liberals and absolutists, and the rise of contemporary nations-states.[citation needed]
"Spain has developed Europe's largest high-speed rail network | Olive Press Newspaper"
Since the 1990s some Spanish companies have gained multinational status, often expanding their activities in culturally close Latin America. Spain is the second biggest foreign investor there, after the United States. Spanish companies have also expanded into Asia, especially China and India.[166] This early global expansion is a competitive advantage over its competitors and European neighbours. The reason for this early expansion is the booming interest towards Spanish language and culture in Asia and Africa and a corporate culture that learned to take risks in unstable markets.
"Spain becomes the first European wind energy producer after overcoming Germany for the first time". Eolic Energy News. 31 December 2010. Archived from the original on 27 April 2011. Retrieved 30 April 2011.
^ United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World Urbanization Prospects (2007 revision) Archived 25 May 2017 at the Wayback Machine, (United Nations, 2008), Table A.12. Data for 2007.
Scheen, Rolf (1996). "Viking raids on the spanish peninsula". Militaria. Revista de Cultura Militar (8): 67–73.
Catalanism and Vasquism, alongside other nationalisms and regionalisms in Spain, arose in that period, being the Basque Nationalist Party formed in 1895 and Regionalist League of Catalonia in 1901.
Sephardim – Jewish Virtual Library Archived 7 September 2012 at the Wayback Machine by Rebecca Weiner
^ "Anuario estadístico de España 2008. 1ª parte: entorno físico y medio ambiente" (PDF). Instituto Nacional de Estadística (Spain). Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 14 April 2015.
^ Jordan, Barry; Morgan-Tamosunas, Rikki (1998). Contemporary spanish cinema. Manchester University Press.
Non-renewable energy sources used in Spain are nuclear (8 operative reactors), gas, coal, and oil. Fossil fuels together generated 58% of Spain's electricity in 2009, just below the OECD mean of 61%. Nuclear power generated another 19%, and wind and hydro about 12% each.[189]
^ "Europeans Favour Spain for Expat Jobs". News.bg. Archived from the original on 10 October 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ Ley 26/1992 Archived 26 November 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Documento BOE-A-1992-24855, Agencia Estatal Boletín Oficial del Estado
Richardson, Paul (19 August 2007). "Spain's perfect paella". The Times. London. Archived from the original on 4 June 2010. Retrieved 6 August 2010.
Upon the conclusion of the Granada War, the Nasrid Sultanate of Granada (the remaining Muslim-ruled polity in the Iberian Peninsula after 1246) capitulated in 1492 to the military strength of the Catholic Monarchs, and it was integrated from then on in the Crown of Castile.[56]
5Economy											Toggle Economy subsection																					5.1Automotive industry																											5.2Agriculture																											5.3Tourism																											5.4Energy																											5.5Transport																											5.6Science and technology
^ Burke, Ulick Ralph (1895). A History of Spain from the Earliest Times to the Death of Ferdinand the Catholic, Volume 1. London: Longmans, Green & Co. p. 12. hdl:2027/hvd.fl29jg.
Fernández Liesa, Carlos R. (2004). "La cuestión de Olivenza, a la luz del Derecho internacional público" (PDF). Encuentros: Revista luso-española de investigadores en Ciencias humanas y sociales. Separatas. Ayuntamiento de Olivenza (4): 234–235. ISSN 1138-6622. Archived (PDF) from the original on 29 August 2014.
Abrabanel, Commentary on the First Prophets (Pirush Al Nevi'im Rishonim), end of II Kings, pp. 680–681, Jerusalem 1955 (Hebrew). See also Shelomo (also spelled Sholomo, Solomon or Salomón) ibn Verga, Shevet Yehudah, pp. 6b–7a, Lemberg 1846 (Hebrew)
"Spain | Facts, Culture, History, & Points of Interest". Encyclopedia Britannica.
Spain claims Gibraltar, a 6-square-kilometre (2.3 sq mi) Overseas Territory of the United Kingdom in the southernmost part of the Iberian Peninsula. Then a Spanish town, it was conquered by an Anglo-Dutch force in 1704 during the War of the Spanish Succession on behalf of Archduke Charles, pretender to the Spanish throne.
Casado Velarde, Manuel (2011). "Spain, a plurilingual state: Spanish and other official languages".In Stickel, Gerhard (ed.). National, regional and minority languages in Europe. Frankfurt: Peter Lang. p. 129. ISBN 978-3-631-60365-9.
Åland (autonomous region subject to the Åland convention of 1921)
The dynastic union of the Crown of Castile and the Crown of Aragon in 1479, often considered the formation of Spain as a country, was followed by the annexation of Navarre and the incorporation of Portugal during the Iberian Union. A major country of the Age of Discovery, Spain began the colonization of the New World in 1492 developing one of the largest empires in history and underpinned the emergence of a global trading system primarily fuelled by precious metals.[13] Centralisation and further state-building in mainland Spain ensued in the 18th century with the Bourbon reforms. In the 19th century the Crown saw the independence of its American colonies as a result of cumulative crises and political divisions after the Peninsular War. Political instability reached its peak in the 20th century with the Spanish Civil War, giving rise to the Francoist dictatorship that lasted until 1975. With the restoration of democracy under the Constitution of Spain and the entry into the European Union, the country experienced profound economic, political and social change.
De la LGE a la LOMCE: Así son las siete leyes educativas españolas de la democracia Archived 12 February 2015 at the Wayback Machine. teinteresa.es
^ "WVS Database". World Values Survey. Institute for Comparative Survey Research. March 2015. Archived from the original on 5 January 2016.
"WVS Database". World Values Survey. Institute for Comparative Survey Research. March 2015. Archived from the original on 5 January 2016.
According to Amnesty International (AI), government investigations of alleged police abuses are often lengthy and punishments were light.[148] Violence against women was a problem, which the Government took steps to address.[149][150]
^ "The Treaty of Granada, 1492". Islamic Civilisation. Archived from the original on 24 September 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ "Catalan crisis: Regional MPs debate Spain takeover bid". BBC. 26 October 2017. Archived from the original on 26 October 2017. Retrieved 27 October 2017.
John Hooper, The New Spaniards, 2001, From Dictatorship to Democracy
González Subías, José Luis (2007). "La extensión del Romanticismo en España". Cuadernos de Ilustración y Romanticismo: Revista del Grupo de Estudios del siglo XVIII. Editorial UCA (15): 226; 228–229. ISSN 2173-0687.
The most popular traditional musical instrument, the guitar, originated in Spain.[303] Typical of the north are the traditional bag pipers or gaiteros, mainly in Asturias and Galicia.
Two 15th-century Spanish Jewish scholars, Don Isaac Abrabanel and Solomon ibn Verga, gave an explanation now considered folkloric: both men wrote in two different published works that the first Jews to reach Spain were brought by ship by Phiros who was confederate with the king of Babylon when he laid siege to Jerusalem. Phiros was a Grecian by birth, but who had been given a kingdom in Spain. Phiros became related by marriage to Espan, the nephew of king Heracles, who also ruled over a kingdom in Spain. Heracles later renounced his throne in preference for his native Greece, leaving his kingdom to his nephew, Espan, from whom the country of España (Spain) took its name. Based upon their testimonies, this eponym would have already been in use in Spain by c. 350 BCE.[28]
"The Christian Church from the 1st to the 20th Century"
"Imperial Spain". University of Calgary. Archived from the original on 29 June 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ Villena, Miguel Ángel (9 June 2012). "El contubernio que preparó la democracia". EL PAÍS. Archived from the original on 5 April 2013.
^ "Immigration statistics". BBC. 11 December 2006. Archived from the original on 8 April 2013. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
Spain lies between latitudes 27° and 44° N, and longitudes 19° W and 5° E.
"El jefe del Estado Mayor del Ejército de Tierra y 11 tenientes generales aspiran a JEMAD"
^ "Estudio n.º 3390. Barómetro de enero de 2023. Pregunta 29 ¿Cómo se define Ud. en materia religiosa: católico/a practicante, católico/a no practicante, creyente de otra religión, agnóstico/a, indiferente o no creyente, o ateo/a? | PEW-GRF" (PDF).
^ Ley Orgánica 8/2013 Archived 12 February 2015 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 9 December 2013
Pontificia Universidad Católica Argentina Santa María de los Buenos Aires
^ "Women in National Parliaments". Ipu.org. 28 February 2010. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014. Retrieved 1 May 2010.
"El regreso de los judíos sefardíes a España". euronewses. 29 August 2014. Archived from the original on 8 September 2014.
H. Patrick Glenn (2007). Legal Traditions of the World. Oxford University Press. pp. 218–219. Dhimma provides rights of residence in return for taxes.
David Ogg, Europe in the seventeenth century (1925), pp. 365-381.
"Population series from 1998". INE Spanish Statistical Institute. Archived from the original on 2 November 2007. Retrieved 14 August 2008.
^ Borraz, Marta (18 March 2021). "Luz verde definitiva: la ley de eutanasia ya es una realidad en España tras superar su último trámite en el Congreso". ElDiario.es (in Spanish). Retrieved 19 March 2021.
^ Centro de Investigaciones Sociológicas: Barómetro de Julio 2020, página 21.¿Cómo se define Ud. en materia religiosa: católico/a practicante, católico/a no practicante, creyente de otra religión, agnóstico/a, indiferente o no creyente, o ateo/a?
"Contubernio de Múnich: 50 años". Archived from the original on 21 October 2014.
^ a b "World Urban Areas: Population & Density" (PDF). Demographia. Archived (PDF) from the original on 5 August 2011. Retrieved 10 August 2008.
The Spanish Constitution does not contain any one official name for Spain. Instead, the terms España (Spain), Estado español (Spanish State) and Nación española (Spanish Nation) are used throughout the document, sometimes interchangeably. In 1984, the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs established that the denominations España (Spain) and Reino de España (Kingdom of Spain) are equally valid to designate Spain in international treaties. The latter term is widely used by the government in national and international affairs of all kinds, including foreign treaties as well as national official documents, and is therefore recognised as the conventional name by many international organisations.[312]
"Immigration statistics". BBC. 11 December 2006. Archived from the original on 8 April 2013. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ Plan de Retorno Voluntario Archived 18 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine Gobierno de España
Northern Ireland (country of the United Kingdom subject to the British-Irish Agreement)
Since 2006, the Mobile World Congress has taken place in Barcelona.
^ Serrano Daura, Josep (2019). "Una aproximación a la Corona de Aragón de Fernando el Católico". Revista de Dret Històric Català. Societat Catalana d’Estudis Jurídics. 18 (18): 75. doi:10.2436/20.3004.01.119. ISSN 1578-5300.
Conversi, Daniele (2002). "The Smooth Transition: Spain's 1978 Constitution and the Nationalities Question" (PDF). National Identities, Vol 4, No. 3. Carfax Publishing, Inc. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 May 2008. Retrieved 28 January 2008.
^ Henry Kamen, Spain, 1469-1714: a society of conflict (Routledge, 2014).
^ Woolf, Steven H.; Masters, Ryan K.; Aron, Laudan Y. (24 June 2021). "Effect of the covid-19 pandemic in 2020 on life expectancy across populations in the USA and other high income countries: simulations of provisional mortality data". BMJ. 373: n1343. doi:10.1136/bmj.n1343. ISSN 1756-1833. PMC 8220857. PMID 34162598.
Dapueto Reyes, María de los Ángeles (2015). "Literatura hispanorromance primigenia : la glosa conoajutorio del Codex Aemilianensis 60". Letras. Pontificia Universidad Católica Argentina Santa María de los Buenos Aires. 2 (72): 90. ISSN 0326-3363.
At 505,992 km2 (195,365 sq mi), Spain is the world's fifty-second largest country and Europe's fourth largest country. It is some 47,000 km2 (18,000 sq mi) smaller than France. Mount Teide (Tenerife) is the highest mountain peak in Spain and is the third largest volcano in the world from its base. Spain is a transcontinental country, having territory in both Europe and Africa.
The Spanish colonisation of the Americas started with the colonisation of the Caribbean. It was followed by the conquest of powerful pre-Columbian polities in Central Mexico and the Pacific Coast of South America. Miscegenation was the rule between the native and the Spanish cultures and people. An expedition sponsored by the Spanish crown completed the first voyage around the world in human history, the Magellan-Elcano circumnavigation. The tornaviaje or return route from the Philippines to Mexico made possible the Manila galleon trading route. The Spanish encountered Islam in Southeast Asia and in order to incorporate the Philippines, Spanish expeditions organised from newly Christianised Mexico had invaded the Philippine territories of the Sultanate of Brunei. The Spanish considered the war with the Muslims of Brunei and the Philippines, a repeat of the Reconquista.[67]
^ Strom, Yale (24 September 1992). The Expulsion of the Jews: Five Hundred Years of Exodus. SP Books. p. 9. ISBN 9781561710812 – via Internet Archive.
^ "Federación de Entidades Religiosas Evangélicas de España – FEREDE". Ferede.org. Archived from the original on 30 September 2011. Retrieved 4 September 2010.
Bailey, Dominic (14 March 2004). "Spain votes under a shadow". BBC. Archived from the original on 25 August 2004. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ "SPAIN: No Turning Back from Path to Gender Equality". Ipsnews.net. 15 March 2007. Archived from the original on 19 April 2014. Retrieved 5 May 2014.
"Nuevo Estatuto de Autonomía de Canarias". .gobiernodecanarias.org. Archived from the original on 20 January 2011. Retrieved 30 April 2011.
^ Gies, David T. (2004). The Cambridge History of Spanish Literature. Cambridge University Press. pp. 73–74. ISBN 0-521-80618-6.
"Women in National Parliaments". Ipu.org. 28 February 2010. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014. Retrieved 1 May 2010.
Salicrú i Lluch, Roser (2020). "Chapter 4 Granada and Its International Contacts". The Nasrid Kingdom of Granada between East and West. Brill. pp. 124–125. doi:10.1163/9789004443594_006. ISBN 9789004443594. S2CID 243153050.
During the Golden Age painters working in Spain included El Greco, José de Ribera, Bartolomé Esteban Murillo and Francisco Zurbarán. Also in the Baroque period, Diego Velázquez created some of the most famous Spanish portraits, such as Las Meninas and Las Hilanderas.[291]
"Euro area unemployment rate at 11%". Eurostat. Archived (PDF) from the original on 31 July 2017.
Pérez-Artés, Mari Carmen; Baten, Joerg (2021). "Land inequality and numeracy in Spain during the seventeenth and eighteenth century" (PDF). Historia Agraria (83): 28. doi:10.26882/histagrar.083e08p. S2CID 233531248.
^ "Global Innovation Index 2021". World Intellectual Property Organization. United Nations. Retrieved 5 March 2022.
Early Medieval literature in Christian Iberia was written in Latin, which remained as the standard literary language up until the mid-13th century, whereas Ibero-Romance vernaculars and Basque were spoken.[277] A decisive development ensued in the 13th century in Toledo, where Arabic scholarship was translated to the local vernacular, Castilian. In the scope of lyric poetry Castilian co-existed alongside Galician-Portuguese across the Crown of Castile up until the 16th century.[278] The Romance variety preferred in Eastern Iberia for lyrical poetry, Occitan, became increasingly Catalanised in the 14th and 15th centuries.[279] Major literary works from the Middle Ages include the Cantar de Mio Cid, Tirant lo Blanch, The Book of Good Love and Coplas por la muerte de su padre. Genres such as Mester de Juglaría and Mester de Clerecía were cultivated.
^ a b Rinehart, Robert; Seeley, Jo Ann Browning (1998). "A Country Study: Spain. Chapter 1 – Hispania". Library of Congress Country Series. Archived from the original on 22 September 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
"'First west Europe tooth' found". BBC. 30 June 2007. Archived from the original on 21 October 2009. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
Thais Guerrero Padrón; María Isabel Ribes Moreno (20 November 2020). Social Security Law in Spain. Wolters Kluwer. p. 165. ISBN 978-94-035-2611-9.
^ "Euro area unemployment rate at 11%". Eurostat. Archived (PDF) from the original on 31 July 2017.
^ Townson, N. (2007). Spain Transformed: The Franco Dictatorship, 1959-1975. Routledge. p. 7. ISBN 9780230592643.
Orringer, Nelson R. (1998). "Redifining the Spanish Silver Age and '98 Within It". Anales de la literatura Española Contemporánea. Society of Spanish & Spanish-American Studies. 23 (1/2): 317. JSTOR 25642011.
Córdoba, the capital of the caliphate since Abd-ar-Rahman III, was the largest, richest and most sophisticated city in western Europe. Mediterranean trade and cultural exchange flourished. Muslims imported a rich intellectual tradition from the Middle East and North Africa. Some important philosophers at the time were Averroes, Ibn Arabi and Maimonides. The Romanised cultures of the Iberian Peninsula interacted with Muslim and Jewish cultures in complex ways, giving the region a distinctive culture.[42] Outside the cities, where the vast majority lived, the land ownership system from Roman times remained largely intact as Muslim leaders rarely dispossessed landowners and the introduction of new crops and techniques led to an expansion of agriculture introducing new produces which originally came from Asia or the former territories of the Roman Empire.[45]
"The Seventeenth-Century Decline". The Library of Iberian resources online. Archived from the original on 21 September 2013. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ La Spina, V (2018). "Earth and gypsum: From theory to practice in Spanish vernacular architecture".In Mileto, C.; Vegas López-Manzanares, F.; García-Soriano, L.; Cristini, V. (eds.). Vernacular and Earthen Architecture: Conservation and Sustainability. London: Taylor & Francis. pp. 153–154. ISBN 978-1-138-03546-1.
Giachi, Sandro; Fernández-Esquinas, Manuel (2020). "Mapping heterogeneity in a research system: The emergence of a 'hybrid' organizational field between science and industry". Research Evaluation. 29 (4): 392–405. doi:10.1093/reseval/rvaa014.
Prime Minister (head of government) or "President of the Government" (Presidente del Gobierno): Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, elected 1 June 2018.Deputy prime ministers (designated by the Prime Minister): Currently Nadia Calviño Santamaría (1st), Yolanda Díaz Pérez (2nd), Teresa Ribera Rodríguez (3rd).Ministers (designated by the Prime Minister): Second government of Pedro Sánchez.
Public holidays celebrated in Spain include a mix of religious (Roman Catholic), national and local observances. Each municipality is allowed to declare a maximum of 14 public holidays per year; up to nine of these are chosen by the national government and at least two are chosen locally.[309] Spain's National Day (Fiesta Nacional de España) is celebrated on 12 October, the anniversary of the Discovery of America and commemorate Our Lady of the Pillar feast, patroness of Aragon and throughout Spain.[310][311]
The 18th century saw a gradual recovery and an increase in prosperity through much of the empire. The predominant economic policy was an interventionist one, and the State also pursued policies aiming towards infrastructure development as well as the abolition of internal customs and the reduction of export tariffs.[81] Projects of agricultural colonisation with new settlements took place in the south of Mainland Spain.[82] Enlightenment ideas began to gain ground among some of the kingdom's elite and monarchy.
^ "El contubernio de Munich". La Vanguardia. 4 June 2012.
^ Spain's fast-living king turns 70 Archived 6 January 2010 at the Wayback Machine BBC News Friday, 4 January 2008 Extracted 18 June 2009
^ "Music Festivals, UK Festivals and London Festivals". Spoonfed.co.uk. Archived from the original on 28 October 2011. Retrieved 1 November 2011.
^ "572 millones de personas hablan español, cinco millones más que hace un año, y aumentarán a 754 millones a mediados de siglo". www.cervantes.es. Archived from the original on 13 May 2021.
"A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 5 The Rise of Aragon-Catalonia"
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World Urbanization Prospects (2009 revision) Archived 25 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine, (United Nations, 2010), Table A.12. Data for 2007.
The Csb zone has warm rather than hot summers, and extends to additional cool-winter areas not typically associated with a Mediterranean climate, such as much of central and northern-central of Spain (e.g. western Castile–León, northeastern Castilla-La Mancha and northern Madrid) and into much rainier areas (notably Galicia). Note areas with substantial summer rainfall such as Galicia are classed as oceanic.
"Global leader Spain carries out its 100,000th transplant". www.thelocal.es. 25 February 2016. Retrieved 23 June 2019.
Marcolongo, Andrea (2017). La lengua de los dioses: Nueve razones para amar el griego (in Greek). Penguin Random House Grupo Editorial España. ISBN 978-84-306-1887-3.
"The spread of Castilian/Spanish in Spain and the Americas: A relatively successful language standardisation experience"
Distinct exploitation genres that flourished in the second half of the 20th century include the Fantaterror [es], the cine quinqui and the so-called destape [es] films.[297]
"Wind power in Spain breaks new instantaneous power record". renovablesmadeinspain.es. 9 November 2010. Archived from the original on 14 December 2011. Retrieved 5 June 2011.
The autonomous communities have wide legislative and executive autonomy, with their own parliaments andgovernments. The distribution of powers may be different for every community, as laid out in their Statutes of Autonomy, since devolution was intended to be asymmetrical. Only two communities—the Basque Country and Navarre—have full fiscal autonomy. Beyond fiscal autonomy, the nationalities—Andalusia, the Basque Country, Catalonia, and Galicia—were devolved more powers than the rest of the communities, among them the ability of the regional president to dissolve the parliament and call for elections at any time. In addition, the Basque Country, Catalonia and Navarre have police corps of their own: Ertzaintza, Mossos d'Esquadra and the Policía Foral respectively. Other communities have more limited forces or none at all, like the Policía Autónoma Andaluza[158] in Andalusia or the BESCAM in Madrid.
^ a b Centro de Investigaciones Sociológicas (Centre for Sociological Research) (October 2019). "Macrobarómetro de octubre 2019, Banco de datos" (in Spanish). p. 160. Retrieved 17 December 2019. The question was "¿Cómo se define Ud. en materia religiosa: católico/a practicante, católico/a no practicante, creyente de otra religion, agnóstico/a, indiferente o no creyente, o ateo/a?", the weight used was "PESOCCAA" which reflects the population sizes of the Autonomous communities of Spain.
The recent waves of immigration have also led to an increasing number of Muslims, Buddhists, Sikhs and Hindus.After the Reconquista in 1492, Muslims did not live in Spain for centuries. Their ranks have since been bolstered by recent immigration, especially from Morocco and Algeria.[citation needed]
^ Giachi, Sandro; Fernández-Esquinas, Manuel (2020). "Mapping heterogeneity in a research system: The emergence of a 'hybrid' organizational field between science and industry". Research Evaluation. 29 (4): 392–405. doi:10.1093/reseval/rvaa014.
Earth and gypsum are very common materials of the traditional vernacular architecture in Spain (particularly in the East of the country, where most of the deposits of gypsum are located).[299]Due to its historical and geographical diversity, Spanish architecture has drawn from a host of influences. Fine examples of Islamicate architecture, belonging to the Western Islamic tradition, were built in the Middle Ages in places such as Córdoba, Seville, or Granada. Similarly to the Maghreb, stucco decoration in Al-Andalus became an architectural stylemark in the high Middle Ages.[300]
^ Max Roser (2014), "Total Fertility Rate around the world over the last centuries", Our World in Data, Gapminder Foundation
^ Orringer, Nelson R. (1998). "Redifining the Spanish Silver Age and '98 Within It". Anales de la literatura Española Contemporánea. Society of Spanish & Spanish-American Studies. 23 (1/2): 317. JSTOR 25642011.
580.000 personas se van de España Archived 15 November 2011 at the Wayback Machine. El País. Edición Impresa. 8 October 2011
Crop areas were farmed in two highly diverse manners. Areas relying on non-irrigated cultivation (secano), which made up 85% of the entire crop area, depended solely on rainfall as a source of water. They included the humid regions of the north and the northwest, as well as vast arid zones that had not been irrigated. The much more productive regions devoted to irrigated cultivation (regadío) accounted for 3 million hectares in 1986, and the government hoped that this area would eventually double, as it already had doubled since 1950. Particularly noteworthy was the development in Almería—one of the most arid and desolate provinces of Spain—of winter crops of various fruits and vegetables for export to Europe.
^ "Áreas urbanas +50". Ministry of Public Works and Transport. 2013. Archived from the original on 26 August 2014.
"España, una nación de naciones" (PDF). University of Navarre. Archived (PDF) from the original on 25 May 2017.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World Urbanization Prospects (2007 revision) Archived 25 May 2017 at the Wayback Machine, (United Nations, 2008), Table A.12. Data for 2007.
^ The official language of the State is established in the Section 3 of the Constitution of Spain to be Castilian.[2] In some autonomous communities, Catalan/Valencian, Galician, Basque and Occitan (locally known as Aranese) are co-official languages. Aragonese and Asturian have some degree of government recognition at the regional level.
"The Economist Intelligence Unit's quality-of-life index" (PDF). The Economist Intelligence Unit. p. 4. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2 August 2012. Retrieved 19 August 2010.
Famous Early Modern works include La Celestina and Lazarillo de Tormes. The famous Don Quijote de La Mancha by Miguel de Cervantes was written in this time. Other writers from the period are: Francisco de Quevedo, Lope de Vega, Calderón de la Barca or Tirso de Molina.
^ "Q&A: Gibraltar's referendum". BBC News. 8 November 2002. Archived from the original on 14 March 2007. Retrieved 19 February 2010.
Spain also includes the Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean Sea, the Canary Islands in the Atlantic Ocean and a number of uninhabited islands on the Mediterranean side of the Strait of Gibraltar, known as plazas de soberanía ("places of sovereignty", or territories under Spanish sovereignty), such as the Chafarinas Islands and Alhucemas. The peninsula of de Vélez de la Gomera is also regarded as a plaza de soberanía. The isle of Alborán, located in the Mediterranean between Spain and North Africa, is also administered by Spain, specifically by the municipality of Almería, Andalusia. The little Pheasant Island in the River Bidasoa is a Spanish-French condominium.
The Spanish administration approved the Gender Equality Act in 2007 aimed at furthering equality between genders in Spanish political and economic life.[126] According to Inter-Parliamentary Union data as of 1 September 2018, 137 of the 350 members of the Congress were women (39.1%), while in the Senate, there were 101 women out of 266 (39.9%), placing Spain 16th on their list of countries ranked by proportion of women in the lower (or single) House.[127] The Gender Empowerment Measure of Spain in the United Nations Human Development Report is 0.794, 12th in the world.[128]
Handbook of European History. Penguin Random House Grupo Editorial España. 1994. ISBN 90-04-09760-0.
^ "Educación Secundaria Obligatoria (ESO)│Ministerio de Educación y Formación Profesional" (in Spanish). Retrieved 26 November 2020.
^ "DataBank - Population estimates and projections". The World Bank. 2023. Retrieved 6 January 2023.
^ "Compare your country - PISA 2018". www2.compareyourcountry.org. Retrieved 29 September 2021.
Ley 25/1992 Archived 27 December 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Documento BOE-A-1992-24854, Agencia Estatal Boletín Oficial del Estado
The cultures of the pre-Roman populations were gradually Romanised (Latinised) at different rates depending on what part of the peninsula they lived in, with local leaders being admitted into the Roman aristocratic class.[h][34] Hispania served as a granary for the Roman market, and its harbours exported gold, wool, olive oil, and wine. Agricultural production increased with the introduction of irrigation projects, some of which remain in use. Emperors Hadrian, Trajan, Theodosius I, and the philosopher Seneca were born in Hispania.[i] Christianity was introduced into Hispania in the 1st century CE and it became popular in the cities in the 2nd century CE.[34] Most of Spain's present languages and religion, and the basis of its laws, originate from this period.[33] In the late 2nd century (starting in 170 CE) incursions of North-African Mauri in the province of Baetica took place.[35]
"Resolution 2231: Question of Gibraltar" (PDF). United Nations. 20 December 1966. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 May 2011. Retrieved 19 February 2010.
^ Payne, Stanley G. (1973). "A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 14 Spanish Society and Economics in the Imperial Age". The Library of Iberian Resources Online. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ "Al-Qaeda 'claims Madrid bombings'". BBC. 14 March 2004. Archived from the original on 24 June 2006. Retrieved 13 August 2008. See also: "Madrid bombers get long sentences". BBC. 31 October 2007. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
Promoted by the monarchs in the late Middle Ages and even codified in the late 15th century, Castilian (thought to be widespread known as 'Spanish' from the 16th century on) progressively became the language of the power elites in the Iberian Peninsula, further underpinning its prestige as the language of a global empire in the early modern period, which ushered in a Golden era of Castilian literature in the 16th and 17th centuries, also in the science domain, eclipsing Galician and Catalan.[280]
"Estudio n.º 3390. Barómetro de enero de 2023. Pregunta 29 ¿Cómo se define Ud. en materia religiosa: católico/a practicante, católico/a no practicante, creyente de otra religión, agnóstico/a, indiferente o no creyente, o ateo/a? | PEW-GRF"
Meaker, Gerald H. (1974). The Revolutionary Left in Spain, 1914–1923. Stanford University Press. p. 159 ff. ISBN 0-8047-0845-2.
Woolf, Steven H.; Masters, Ryan K.; Aron, Laudan Y. (24 June 2021). "Effect of the covid-19 pandemic in 2020 on life expectancy across populations in the USA and other high income countries: simulations of provisional mortality data". BMJ. 373: n1343. doi:10.1136/bmj.n1343. ISSN 1756-1833. PMC 8220857. PMID 34162598.
"Europeans Favour Spain for Expat Jobs". News.bg. Archived from the original on 10 October 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
"BOCAe32.QXD" (PDF) (in Catalan). Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 July 2009. Retrieved 20 July 2009.
^ The latifundia (sing., latifundium), large estates controlled by the aristocracy, were superimposed on the existing Iberian landholding system.
Atlantic Spain – the whole Northern coast, including Asturian, Basque, Cantabrian and Galician cuisine – vegetable and fish-based stews like caldo gallego and marmitako. Also, the lightly cured lacón ham. The best known cuisine of the northern countries often rely on ocean seafood, as in the Basque-style cod, albacore or anchovy or the Galician octopus-based polbo á feira and shellfish dishes.
Katina T. Lillios (5 December 2019). The Archaeology of the Iberian Peninsula: From the Paleolithic to the Bronze Age. Cambridge University Press. p. 65. ISBN 978-1-107-11334-3.
^ Dapueto Reyes, María de los Ángeles (2015). "Literatura hispanorromance primigenia : la glosa conoajutorio del Codex Aemilianensis 60". Letras. Pontificia Universidad Católica Argentina Santa María de los Buenos Aires. 2 (72): 90. ISSN 0326-3363.
Biodiversidad, Fundación (18 February 2014). "The Foundation". Fundación Biodiversidad. Retrieved 24 September 2022.
The Spanish Civil War broke out in 1936: on 17 and 18 July, part of the military carried out a coup d'état that triumphed in only part of the country. The situation led to a civil war, in which the territory was divided into two zones: one under the authority of the Republican government, that counted on outside support from the Soviet Union and Mexico (and from International Brigades), and the other controlled by the putschists (the Nationalist or rebel faction), most critically supported by Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy. The Republic was not supported by the Western powers due to the British-led policy of non-intervention. General Francisco Franco was sworn in as the supreme leader of the rebels on 1 October 1936. An uneasy relationship between the Republican government and the grassroots anarchists who had initiated a partial Social revolution also ensued.
^ "A good bet?". The Economist. Business. Madrid. 30 April 2009. Archived from the original on 4 May 2009. Retrieved 14 May 2009.
Rinehart, Robert; Seeley, Jo Ann Browning (1998). "A Country Study: Spain – The Golden Age". Library of Congress Country Series. Archived from the original on 9 August 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
"Los judíos en la España medieval: de la tolerancia a la expulsión"
Some of the most spoken foreign languages used by the immigrant communities include Moroccan Arabic, Romanian and English.[246]
^ a b c Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Spain" . Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
The Programme for International Student Assessment coordinated by the OECD currently ranks the overall knowledge and skills of Spanish 15-year-olds as significantly below the OECD average of 493 in reading literacy, mathematics, and science.[254][255]
The bursting of the Spanish property bubble in 2008 led to the 2008–16 Spanish financial crisis. High levels of unemployment, cuts in government spending and corruption in Royal family and People's Party served as a backdrop to the 2011–12 Spanish protests.[105] Catalan independentism also rose. In 2011, Mariano Rajoy's conservative People's Party won the election with 44.6% of votes.[106] As prime minister, he implemented austerity measures for EU bailout, the EU Stability and Growth Pact.[107] On 19 June 2014, the monarch, Juan Carlos, abdicated in favour of his son, who became Felipe VI.[108]
^ Costa, Joaquín. Oligarquía y caciquismo, Colectivismo agrario y otros escritos: (Antología).
^ Sephardim – Jewish Virtual Library Archived 7 September 2012 at the Wayback Machine by Rebecca Weiner
Protestant churches have about 1,200,000 members.[265] There are about 105,000 Jehovah's Witnesses. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has approximately 46,000 adherents in 133 congregations in all regions of the country and has a temple in the Moratalaz District of Madrid.[266]
^ "Catalonians vote for more autonomy". CNN. 18 June 2006. Archived from the original on 4 June 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008. See also: "Economic Survey: Spain 2005". Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Archived from the original on 17 April 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008. and "Country Briefings: Spain". The Economist. Archived from the original on 14 October 2012. Retrieved 9 August 2008. and "Swiss Experience With Decentralized Government" (PDF). The World Bank. Archived (PDF) from the original on 19 August 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ "Resolution 2070: Question of Gibraltar" (PDF). United Nations. 16 December 1965. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 May 2011. Retrieved 19 February 2010.
"El Festival de San Sebastián y el de Málaga, entre las diez iniciativas culturales más importantes de España en 2021"
"Spain's Prime Minister, Mariano Rajoy, Is Ousted in No-Confidence Vote"
As a result, Spain is now composed of 17 autonomous communities and two autonomous cities with varying degrees of autonomy thanks to its Constitution, which nevertheless explicitly states the indivisible unity of the Spanish nation. The constitution also specifies that Spain has no state religion and that all are free to practice and believe as they wish.
The Plateresque style extended from beginnings of the 16th century until the last third of the century and its stylistic influence pervaded the works of all great Spanish artists of the time. Alonso Berruguete (Valladolid School) is called the "Prince of Spanish sculpture". His main works were the upper stalls of the choir of the Cathedral of Toledo, the tomb of Cardinal Tavera in the same Cathedral, and the altarpiece of the Visitation in the church of Santa Úrsula in the same locality. Other notable sculptors were Bartolomé Ordóñez, Diego de Siloé, Juan de Juni and Damián Forment.[citation needed]
Through exploration and conquest or royal marriage alliances and inheritance, the Spanish Empire expanded across vast areas in the Americas, the Indo-Pacific, Africa as well as the European continent (including holdings in the Italian Peninsula, the Low Countries and the Franche-Comté). The first circumnavigation of the world was carried out in 1519–1521. The so-called Age of Discovery featured explorations by sea and by land, the opening-up of new trade routes across oceans, conquests and the beginnings of European colonialism. Precious metals, spices, luxuries, and previously unknown plants brought to the metropole played a leading part in transforming the European understanding of the globe.[71] The cultural efflorescence witnessed during this period is now referred to as the Spanish Golden Age. The expansion of the empire caused immense upheaval in the Americas as the collapse of societies and empires and new diseases from Europe devastated American indigenous populations. The rise of humanism, the Counter-Reformation and new geographical discoveries and conquests raised issues that were addressed by the intellectual movement now known as the School of Salamanca, which developed the first modern theories of what are now known as international law and human rights. Juan Luis Vives was another prominent humanist during this period.
^ "La Fuerza del Mar". revista.consumer.es. Archived from the original on 26 August 2011. Retrieved 5 June 2011.
^ La Ley Orgánica 2/2006 Archived 25 May 2011 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 23 September 2009
"Algae Based Biofuels in Plain English: Why it Matters, How it Works. (algae algaebiofuels carbonsequestration valcent vertigro algaebasedbiofuels ethanol)"
The regime remained chiefly "neutral" from a nominal standpoint in the Second World War (it briefly switched its position to "non-belligerent"), although it was sympathetic to the Axis and provided the Nazi Wehrmacht with Spanish volunteers in the Eastern Front. The only legal party under Franco's dictatorship was the Falange Española Tradicionalista y de las JONS (FET y de las JONS), formed in 1937 upon the merging of the Fascist Falange Española de las JONS and the Carlist traditionalists and to which the rest of right-wing groups supporting the rebels also added. The name of "Movimiento Nacional", sometimes understood as a wider structure than the FET y de las JONS proper, largely imposed over the later's name in official documents along the 1950s.
^ "Contubernio de Múnich: 50 años". Archived from the original on 21 October 2014.
Burke, Ulick Ralph (1895). A History of Spain from the Earliest Times to the Death of Ferdinand the Catholic, Volume 1. London: Longmans, Green & Co. p. 12. hdl:2027/hvd.fl29jg.
Citrus fruits, vegetables, cereal grains, olive oil, and wine—Spain's traditional agricultural products—continued to be important in the 1980s. In 1983 they represented 12%, 12%, 8%, 6%, and 4%, respectively, of the country's agricultural production. Because of the changed diet of an increasingly affluent population, there was a notable increase in the consumption of livestock, poultry, and dairy products. Meat production for domestic consumption became the single most important agricultural activity, accounting for 30% of all farm-related production in 1983. Increased attention to livestock was the reason that Spain became a net importer of grains. Ideal growing conditions, combined with proximity to important north European markets, made citrus fruits Spain's leading export. Fresh vegetables and fruits produced through intensive irrigation farming also became important export commodities, as did sunflower seed oil that was produced to compete with the more expensive olive oils in oversupply throughout the Mediterranean countries of the European Community.
While varieties of football have been played in Spain as far back as Roman times, sport in Spain has been dominated by football since the early 20th century. Real Madrid CF and FC Barcelona are two of the most successful football clubs in the world. The country's national football team won the UEFA European Championship in 1964, 2008 and 2012 and the FIFA World Cup in 2010, and is the first team ever to win three back-to-back major international tournaments.[citation needed]
"Spain becomes solar power world leader". Europeanfutureenergyforum.com. 14 July 2010. Archived from the original on 24 November 2010. Retrieved 4 September 2010.
According to the official Spanish statistics (INE) there were 5.4 million foreign residents in Spain in 2020 (11.4%)[228] while all citizens born outside of Spain were 7.2 million in 2020, 15.23% of the total population.[3]
Catalonia, Galicia and the Basque Country, which identified themselves as nationalities, were granted self-government through a rapid process. Andalusia also identified itself as a nationality in its first Statute of Autonomy, even though it followed the longer process stipulated in the constitution for the rest of the country. Progressively, other communities in revisions to their Statutes of Autonomy have also taken that denomination in accordance with their historical and modern identities, such as the Valencian Community,[154] the Canary Islands,[155] the Balearic Islands,[156] and Aragon.[157]
"Spain disputes Portugal islands" Archived 8 September 2013 at the Wayback Machine The Portugal News. Retrieved 9 September 2013.
Ley 26/1992 Archived 26 November 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Documento BOE-A-1992-24855, Agencia Estatal Boletín Oficial del Estado
Jesús Luis Cunchillos [es] argued that the root of the term span is the Phoenician word spy, meaning "to forge metals". Therefore, i-spn-ya would mean "the land where metals are forged".[23] It may be a derivation of the Phoenician I-Shpania, meaning "island of rabbits", "land of rabbits" or "edge", a reference to Spain's location at the end of the Mediterranean; Roman coins struck in the region from the reign of Hadrian show a female figure with a rabbit at her feet,[24] and Strabo called it the "land of the rabbits".[25] The word in question (compare modern Hebrew Shafancode: heb promoted to code: he , שפןcode: heb promoted to code: he ) actually means "Hyrax", possibly due to Phoenicians confusing the two animals.[26]
^ Ortiz, Fiona (22 April 2013). "Spain's population falls as immigrants flee crisis". Reuters. Archived from the original on 2 September 2017. Retrieved 2 September 2017.
"Los musulmanes en España superan por primera vez los 2 millones de personas". El Heraldo. September 2020.
As a member of NATO since 1982, Spain has established itself as a participant in multilateral international security activities. Spain's EU membership represents an important part of its foreign policy. Even on many international issues beyond western Europe, Spain prefers to coordinate its efforts with its EU partners through the European political co-operation mechanisms.[vague]
"La cuestión de Gibraltar" (in Spanish). Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Spain. January 2008. Archived from the original on 29 May 2009. Retrieved 3 January 2010.
"Literatura hispanorromance primigenia : la glosa conoajutorio del Codex Aemilianensis 60"
"Land inequality and numeracy in Spain during the seventeenth and eighteenth century"
"572 millones de personas hablan español, cinco millones más que hace un año, y aumentarán a 754 millones a mediados de siglo"
^ "Spain posts record number of 82 million inbound tourists in 2017". 10 January 2018. Retrieved 10 February 2018.
^ The Kingfisher History Encyclopedia. 9 September 2004. p. 201. ISBN 978-0-7534-5784-9.
^ "El regreso de los judíos sefardíes a España". euronewses. 29 August 2014. Archived from the original on 8 September 2014.
Norman Naimark wrote that "some scholars consider the initial period of the Spanish conquest—from Columbus’s frst landing in the Bahamas until the middle of thesixteenth century—as marking the most egregious case of genocide in the history of mankind."[66]
Tremlett, Giles (9 May 2005). "Spain grants amnesty to 700,000 migrants". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on 29 August 2013. Retrieved 20 July 2009.
In March 2021, Spain became the sixth nation in the world to make active euthanasia legal.[117]
^ Lewis, Bernard (1984). The Jews of Islam. Princeton: Princeton University Press. p. 62. ISBN 978-0-691-00807-3. Dhimmi have fewer legal and social rights than Muslims, but more rights than other non-Muslims.
^ "Spain to Put 1 million Electric Cars on the Road". Triplepundit.com. 30 July 2008. Archived from the original on 23 November 2008. Retrieved 19 November 2008.
The Csa zone is associated to areas with hot summers. It is predominant in the Mediterranean and Southern Atlantic coast and inland throughout Andalusia, Extremadura and much, if not most, of the centre of the country. The Csa zone covers climatic zones with both warm and cool winters which are considered extremely different from each other at a local level, reason for which Köppen classification is often eschewed within Spain. Local climatic maps generally divide the Mediterranean zone (which covers most of the country) between warm-winter and cool-winter zones, rather than according to summer temperatures.
Spain is organisationally structured as a so-called Estado de las Autonomías ("State of Autonomies"); it is one of the most decentralised countries in Europe, along with Switzerland, Germany and Belgium;[130] for example, all autonomous communities have their own elected parliaments, governments, public administrations, budgets, and resources. Health and education systems among others are managed by the Spanish communities, and in addition, the Basque Country and Navarre also manage their own public finances based on foral provisions. In Catalonia, the Basque Country, Navarre and the Canary Islands, a full-fledged autonomous police corps replaces some of the State police functions (see Mossos d'Esquadra, Ertzaintza, Policía Foral/Foruzaingoa and Policía Canaria).
"Partnership for Progress and Prosperity: Britain and the Overseas Territories. Appendix 1: Profiles for Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands & Gibraltar"
In Spain there are 17.804 billion trees and an average of 284 million more grow each year.[122]
^ "Spain | Facts, Culture, History, & Points of Interest". Encyclopedia Britannica.
"La 'Edad de Plata' (1868-1936) y las generaciones de la Edad de Plata : cultura y filología"
^ Kantor, Máttis (24 September 2005). Codex Judaica: Chronological Index of Jewish History, Covering 5,764 Years of Biblical, Talmudic & Post-Talmudic History. Zichron Press. ISBN 9780967037837 – via Google Books.
Lara Galera, Antonio L. (2015). "El AVE Madrid-Barcelona, una obra de mérito" (PDF). Revista de Obras Públicas (3569): 57. ISSN 0034-8619.
^ "Los musulmanes en España superan por primera vez los 2 millones de personas". El Heraldo. September 2020.
De la LGE a la LOMCE: Así son las siete leyes educativas españolas de la democracia
^ #Linch, John (director), Fernández Castro, María Cruz (del segundo tomo), Historia de España, El País, volumen II, La península Ibérica en época prerromana, p. 40. Dossier. La etimología de España; ¿tierra de conejos?, ISBN 978-84-9815-764-2
Alandete, David (27 October 2017). "Análisis. Is Catalonia independent?". El País. Archived from the original on 28 October 2017.
Piñol, Pere Ríos, Àngels (27 October 2017). "El Parlament de Cataluña aprueba la resolución para declarar la independencia". El País (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 29 October 2017.
It is this last feature of "shared identity" between the more local level or autonomous community and the Spanish level which makes the identity question in Spain complex and far from univocal.
^ Rodríguez. Independence of Spanish America. Cambridge University Press. It met as one body, and its members represented the entire Spanish world
"La Moncloa. 19/11/2019. Transporte y Vivienda [España/España Hoy 2018-2019/Otras políticas]". www.lamoncloa.gob.es (in Spanish). Retrieved 1 February 2020.
La Spina, V (2018). "Earth and gypsum: From theory to practice in Spanish vernacular architecture".In Mileto, C.; Vegas López-Manzanares, F.; García-Soriano, L.; Cristini, V. (eds.). Vernacular and Earthen Architecture: Conservation and Sustainability. London: Taylor & Francis. pp. 153–154. ISBN 978-1-138-03546-1.
The arrival of Modernism in the academic arena produced much of the architecture of the 20th century. An influential style centred in Barcelona, known as modernisme, produced a number of important architects, of which Gaudí is one. The International style was led by groups like GATEPAC. Spain is currently experiencing a revolution in contemporary architecture and Spanish architects like Rafael Moneo, Santiago Calatrava, Ricardo Bofill as well as many others have gained worldwide renown.[citation needed]
OECD (2006). OECD Territorial Reviews Competitive Cities in the Global Economy. Table 1.1. OECD Publishing. ISBN 978-92-64-02708-4.
"Spain's Iberdrola signs investment accord with Gulf group Taqa". Forbes. 25 May 2008. Archived from the original on 7 June 2010.
Lauren A. Benton (1990). Invisible Factories: The Informal Economy and Industrial Development in Spain. SUNY Press.
Spain's capitalist mixed economy is the 14th largest worldwide and the 4th largest in the European Union, as well as the Eurozone's 4th largest.
"Spanish Inquisition left genetic legacy in Iberia". New Scientist. 4 December 2008. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014. Retrieved 18 January 2014.
"Rival nationalisms in a plurinational state: Spain, Catalonia and the Basque Country". Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017.
"A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 1 Ancient Hispania"
"SPAIN: No Turning Back from Path to Gender Equality". Ipsnews.net. 15 March 2007. Archived from the original on 19 April 2014. Retrieved 5 May 2014.
^ "King Orders army to crush coup". The Guardian. 23 February 1981. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
The legal situation concerning Gibraltar was settled in 1713 by the Treaty of Utrecht, in which Spain ceded the territory in perpetuity to the British Crown[132] stating that, should the British abandon this post, it would be offered to Spain first. Since the 1940s Spain has called for the return of Gibraltar. The overwhelming majority of Gibraltarians strongly oppose this, along with any proposal of shared sovereignty.[133] UN resolutions call on the United Kingdom and Spain to reach an agreement over the status of Gibraltar.[134][135]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Presidency of the Government (11 October 1997). "Real Decreto 1560/1997, de 10 de octubre, por el que se regula el Himno Nacional" (PDF). Boletín Oficial del Estado núm. 244 (in Spanish). Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 September 2015.
Bernaldo de Quirós Guidolti, Federico; Cabrera Valdés, Victoria (1994). "Cronología del arte paleolítico" (PDF). Complutum. 5: 265–276. ISSN 1131-6993. Retrieved 17 November 2012.
Spain 2015/2016 Archived 8 August 2016 at the Wayback Machine Amnesty International. Retrieved 22 June 2016.
^ Typical Aurignacian items were found in Cantabria (Morín, El Pendo, El Castillo), the Basque Country (Santimamiñe) and Catalonia. The radiocarbon datations give the following dates: 32,425 and 29,515 BP.[failed verification][
Reviving the Reconquista in Southeast Asia: Moros and the Making of the Philippines, 1565–1662 By: Ethan P. Hawkley
Cruz Artacho, Salvador (2003). "Caciquismo y mundo rural durante la Restauración".In Gutiérrez, Rosa Ana; Zurita, Rafael; Camurri, Renato (eds.). Elecciones y cultura política en España e Italia (1890–1923). Valencia: Universitat de València. p. 33. ISBN 84-370-5672-1.
^ Spain's Jobs Crisis Leaves Immigrants Out of Work Archived 10 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine, The Wall Street Journal, 24 January 2009
"Rajoy ahoy". The Economist. 21 November 2011. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
^ "Acuerdo entre el Reino de España y Nueva Zelanda sobre participación en determinadas elecciones de los nacionales de cada país residentes en el territorio del otro, hecho en Wellington el 23 de junio de 2009". Noticias Jurídicas.
"A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 13 The Spanish Empire"
Energy in Sweden, Facts and figures, The Swedish Energy Agency, (in Swedish: Energiläget i siffror), Table for figure 49. Source: IEA/OECD [1]. Archived 16 October 2013 at the Wayback Machine
^ "Avance del Padrón Municipal a 1 de enero de 2006. Datos provisionales" (PDF). Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 July 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008. and "Spain: Immigrants Welcome". Business Week. Archived from the original on 6 October 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008. and "Immigrants Fuel Europe's Civilization Clash". MSNBC. Archived from the original on 13 May 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008. and "Spanish youth clash with immigrant gangs". International Herald Tribune. Archived from the original on 3 June 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ "España, una nación de naciones" (PDF). University of Navarre. Archived (PDF) from the original on 25 May 2017.
Anirudh. "10 Most Famous Paintings by Diego Velazquez | Learnodo Newtonic". Retrieved 21 November 2020.
During this war, a new dynasty originating in France, the Bourbons, was installed. The Crowns of Castile and Aragon had been long united only by the Monarchy and the common institution of the Inquisition's Holy Office.[77] A number of reform policies (the so-called Bourbon Reforms) were pursued by the Monarchy with the overarching goal of centralized authority and administrative uniformity.[78] They included the abolishment of many of the old regional privileges and laws,[79] as well as the customs barrier between the Crowns of Aragon and Castile in 1717, followed by the introduction of new property taxes in the Aragonese kingdoms.[80]
"La eólica supera por primera vez la mitad de la producción eléctrica"
"Gallup International Religiosity Index" (PDF). The Washington Post. WIN-Gallup International. April 2015. Archived (PDF) from the original on 1 February 2016.
Spain has maintained its special relations with Hispanic America and the Philippines. Its policy emphasises the concept of an Ibero-American community, essentially the renewal of the concept of "Hispanidad" or "Hispanismo", as it is often referred to in English, which has sought to link the Iberian Peninsula with Hispanic America through language, commerce, history and culture. It is fundamentally "based on shared values and the recovery of democracy."[131]
^ Labanyi, Jo (2010). Spanish Literature. A Very Short Introduction. Oxford University Press. pp. 18–19. ISBN 978-0-19-920805-0.
^ Joseph Harrison, David Corkill (2004). "Spain: a modern European economy". Ashgate Publishing. p. 23. ISBN 0-7546-0145-5
The health care system of Spain (Spanish National Health System) is considered one of the best in the world, in 7th position in the ranking elaborated by the World Health Organization.[256] The health care is public, universal and free for any legal citizen of Spain.[257] The total health spending is 9.4% of the GDP, slightly above the average of 9.3% of the OECD.
The oceanic climate (Cfb), located in the northern quarter of the country, especially in the Atlantic region (Basque Country, Cantabria, Asturias, and partly Galicia and Castile–León). Additionally it is also found in northern Navarre, in most highlands areas along the Iberian System and in the Pyrenean valleys, where a humid subtropical variant (Cfa) also occurs. Winter and summer temperatures are influenced by the ocean, and have no seasonal drought.
The Archaeology of the Iberian Peninsula: From the Paleolithic to the Bronze Age
Codex Judaica: Chronological Index of Jewish History, Covering 5,764 Years of Biblical, Talmudic & Post-Talmudic History
The Berbers soon gave up attempting to settle the harsh lands in the north of the Meseta Central (Inner Plateau) handed to them by the Arab rulers.
"The Situation of Roma in Spain" (PDF). Open Society Institute. Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 June 2008. Retrieved 14 August 2008.
Spain has been described as a de facto plurinational state.[217][218] The identity of Spain rather accrues of an overlap of different territorial and ethnolinguistic identities than of a sole Spanish identity. In some cases some of the territorial identities may conflict with the dominant Spanish culture. Distinct traditional identities within Spain include the Basques, Catalans, Galicians, Andalusians and Valencians,[failed verification][219] although to some extent all of the 17 autonomous communities may claim a distinct local identity.
^ "The Need for Speed–High Speed Rail in Europe: Do You Speak Spanish? Europe on Track". Blog.raileurope.com. Archived from the original on 2 February 2011. Retrieved 1 November 2011.
Villalobos, Alvaro (6 May 2018). "Spain's Bilbao fights to lead European wind power sector". Phys.org (in Spanish). Retrieved 6 July 2018.
"Educación Primaria │Ministerio de Educación y Formación Profesional" (in Spanish). Retrieved 26 November 2020.
Costa, Joaquín. Oligarquía y caciquismo, Colectivismo agrario y otros escritos: (Antología).
Spain is a constitutional monarchy, with a hereditary monarch and a bicameral parliament, the Cortes Generales (English: Spanish Parliament, lit. 'General Courts').[129]
Three main climatic zones can be separated, according to geographical situation and orographic conditions:[119]
^ "Spain legalises gay marriage". The Guardian. 30 June 2005. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
"The lottery of life". The Economist. 21 November 2012. Archived from the original on 20 July 2014.
^ Norman Naimark wrote that "some scholars consider the initial period of the Spanish conquest—from Columbus’s frst landing in the Bahamas until the middle of thesixteenth century—as marking the most egregious case of genocide in the history of mankind."[66]
Ley 24/1992 Archived 26 November 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Documento BOE-A-1992-24853, Agencia Estatal Boletín Oficial del Estado
^ "Bank holidays in Spain". bank-holidays.com. Archived from the original on 18 September 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ Pérez-Artés, Mari Carmen; Baten, Joerg (2021). "Land inequality and numeracy in Spain during the seventeenth and eighteenth century" (PDF). Historia Agraria (83): 28. doi:10.26882/histagrar.083e08p. S2CID 233531248.
Recent Migration of Roma in Europe, A study by Mr. Claude Cahn and Professor Elspeth Guild
In 2010 Spain became the solar power world leader when it overtook the United States with a massive power station plant called La Florida, near Alvarado, Badajoz.[179][180] Spain is also Europe's main producer of wind energy.[181][182] In 2010 its wind turbines generated 42,976 GWh, which accounted for 16.4% of all electrical energy produced in Spain.[183][184][185] On 9 November 2010, wind energy reached an instantaneous historic peak covering 53% of mainland electricity demand[186] and generating an amount of energy that is equivalent to that of 14 nuclear reactors.[187] Other renewable energies used in Spain are hydroelectric, biomass and marine (2 power plants under construction).[188]
"El Parlament de Cataluña aprueba la resolución para declarar la independencia"
Spain is a highly developed country ranked 27th in the Human Development Index, a secular parliamentary democracy and a constitutional monarchy,[15] with King Felipe VI as head of state. It is a high-income country and an advanced economy,[16] with the world's sixteenth-largest economy by nominal GDP and the sixteenth-largest by PPP. Spain has the twelfth-highest life expectancy in the world.[17] It ranks particularly high in healthcare quality,[18] with its healthcare system considered to be one of the most efficient worldwide.[19] It is a world leader in organ transplants and organ donation.[20][21] Spain is a member of the United Nations, the European Union, the Eurozone, the Council of Europe (CoE), de facto member of the G20, the Organization of Ibero-American States (OEI), the Union for the Mediterranean, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), the World Trade Organization (WTO),and many other international organisations.
^ "World Mayor: The 2012 results". worldmayor.com. Archived from the original on 11 January 2013.
^ Montes Fernández, Francisco José (2011). "Recordando la historia del cine español" (PDF). Anuario Jurídico y Económico Escurialense. XLIV. ISSN 1133-3677.
Grantham, H. S.;et al. (2020). "Anthropogenic modification of forests means only 40% of remaining forests have high ecosystem integrity – Supplementary Material". Nature Communications. 11 (1): 5978. Bibcode:2020NatCo..11.5978G. doi:10.1038/s41467-020-19493-3. ISSN 2041-1723. PMC 7723057. PMID 33293507.
^ "Spain". UNESCO Culture Sector. Archived from the original on 26 September 2014. Retrieved 14 September 2014.
^ "Estimations" (JPG). Gfbv.it. Archived from the original on 5 April 2016. Retrieved 21 May 2016.
Spain is a multilingual state.[240] Spanish—featured in the 1978 Spanish Constitution as castellano ('Castilian')—has effectively been the official language of the entire country since 1931.[241] As allowed in the third article of the Constitution, the other 'Spanish languages' can also become official in their respective autonomous communities. The territoriality created by the form of co-officiality codified in the 1978 Constitution creates an asymmetry, in which Spanish speakers' rights apply to the entire territory whereas vis-à-vis the rest of co-official languages, their speakers' rights only apply in their territories.[242]
Within the EU, Spain had the 2nd highest immigration rate in percentage terms after Cyprus, but by a great margin, the highest in absolute numbers, up to 2008.[232] The number of immigrants in Spain had grown up from 500,000 people in 1996 to 5.2 million in 2008 out of a total population of 46 million.[233] In 2005 alone, a regularisation programme increased the legal immigrant population by 700,000 people.[234] There are a number of reasons for the high level of immigration, including Spain's cultural ties with Latin America, its geographical position, the porosity of its borders, the large size of its underground economy and the strength of the agricultural and construction sectors, which demand more low cost labour than can be offered by the national workforce.
A History of Portugal and the Portuguese Empire: Volume 1, Portugal: From Beginnings to 1807. Cambridge University Press. 2009. ISBN 978-1-107-71764-0.
Within the European territory, Spain has the largest number of plant species (7,600 vascular plants) of all European countries.[121]
^ "The Situation of Roma in Spain" (PDF). Open Society Institute. 2002. Archived from the original (PDF) on 1 December 2007. Retrieved 15 September 2010. The Spanish government estimates the number of Gitanos at a maximum of 650,000.
"Luz verde definitiva: la ley de eutanasia ya es una realidad en España tras superar su último trámite en el Congreso"
"Life expectancy at birth, total (years) - Spain". World Bank. Retrieved 5 November 2021.
During the 1980s the democratic restoration made possible a growing open society. New cultural movements based on freedom appeared, like La Movida Madrileña. In May 1982 Spain joined NATO, followed by a referendum after a strong social opposition. That year the Spanish Socialist Workers Party (PSOE) came to power, the first left-wing government in 43 years. In 1986 Spain joined the European Economic Community, which later became the European Union. The PSOE was replaced in government by the Partido Popular (PP) in 1996 after scandals around participation of the government of Felipe González in the Dirty war against ETA; at that point the PSOE had served almost 14 consecutive years in office.
Ministers (designated by the Prime Minister): Second government of Pedro Sánchez.
"Al-Qaeda 'claims Madrid bombings'". BBC. 14 March 2004. Archived from the original on 24 June 2006. Retrieved 13 August 2008. See also: "Madrid bombers get long sentences". BBC. 31 October 2007. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ Villalobos, Alvaro (6 May 2018). "Spain's Bilbao fights to lead European wind power sector". Phys.org (in Spanish). Retrieved 6 July 2018.
^ "Spain becomes the first European wind energy producer after overcoming Germany for the first time". Eolic Energy News. 31 December 2010. Archived from the original on 27 April 2011. Retrieved 30 April 2011.
^ "Población extranjera por sexo, país de nacionalidad y edad". Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Archived from the original on 25 March 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
"Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Población (españoles/extranjeros) por País de Nacimiento, sexo y año"
Spain's Jobs Crisis Leaves Immigrants Out of Work Archived 10 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine, The Wall Street Journal, 24 January 2009
According to residence permit data for 2011, more than 860,000 were Romanian, about 770,000 were Moroccan, approximately 390,000 were British, and 360,000 were Ecuadorian.[229] Other sizeable foreign communities are Colombian, Bolivian, German, Italian, Bulgarian, and Chinese. There are more than 200,000 migrants from Sub-Saharan Africa living in Spain, principally Senegaleses and Nigerians.[230] Since 2000, Spain has experienced high population growth as a result of immigration flows, despite a birth rate that is only half the replacement level. This sudden and ongoing inflow of immigrants, particularly those arriving illegally by sea, has caused noticeable social tension.[231]
A system of ancient and mediæval geography for the use of schools and colleges
^ "Rabbits, fish and mice, but no rock hyrax". Understanding Animal Research.
^ Sanz, Juan Carlos (22 January 2016). "Spain at last welcomes back the Sephardim". El País. Tel Aviv. Retrieved 26 May 2018.
Classen, Albrecht (31 August 2015). Handbook of Medieval Culture. Walter de Gruyter GmbH & Co KG. ISBN 9783110267303 – via Google Books.
a supreme court, under the supreme court of Spain, which heads the judiciary in the autonomous community.
Flynn, Dennis O.; Giráldez Source, Arturo (1995). "Born with a 'Silver Spoon': The Origin of World Trade in 1571". Journal of World History. 6 (2): 202. JSTOR 20078638.
Besides the Perejil Island, the Spanish-held territories claimed by other countries are two: Morocco claims the Spanish cities of Ceuta and Melilla and the plazas de soberanía islets off the northern coast of Africa. Portugal does not recognise Spain's sovereignty over the territory of Olivenza which was annexed by Spain in 1801 after the War of the Oranges. The Portuguese stance is that the territory is de iure Portuguese territory and de facto Spanish.[141]
The name of Spain (España) comes from Hispania, the name used by the Romans for the Iberian Peninsula and its provinces during the Roman Empire. The etymological origin of the term Hispania is uncertain, although the Phoenicians referred to the region as Spania, therefore the most widely accepted etymology is a Phoenician one.[22] There have been a number of accounts and hypotheses of its origin:
^ "Imperial Spain". University of Calgary. Archived from the original on 29 June 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
Payne, Stanley G. (1973). "A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 13 The Spanish Empire". The Library of Iberian Resources Online. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
The Kingdom of León was the strongest Christian kingdom for centuries. In 1188 the first modern parliamentary session[clarification needed] in Europe was held in León (Cortes of León).[47] The Kingdom of Castile, formed from Leonese territory, was its successor as strongest kingdom. The kings and the nobility fought for power and influence in this period. The example of the Roman emperors influenced the political objective of the Crown, while the nobles benefited from feudalism.
^ "Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Estadística del Padrón Continuo". ine.es. Instituto Nacional de Estadística.
Limón, Raúl (7 March 2016). "The world's most expensive ham is from Huelva and costs €4,100 a leg". El País. ISSN 1134-6582. Retrieved 31 October 2019.
Callaghan O.F Joseph. A History of Medieval Spain Cornell University Press 1983
^ "Nuevo Estatuto de Autonomía de Canarias". .gobiernodecanarias.org. Archived from the original on 20 January 2011. Retrieved 30 April 2011.
"Global Guru | analysis". The Global Guru. Archived from the original on 6 January 2011. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
"The successes and failures of Spain's fight against domestic abuse"
In the Basque Country, moderate Basque nationalism coexisted with a radical nationalist movement led by the armed organisation ETA until the latter's dissolution in May 2018.[96] The group was formed in 1959 during Franco's rule but had continued to wage its violent campaign even after the restoration of democracy and the return of a large measure of regional autonomy.
"Estimations" (JPG). Gfbv.it. Archived from the original on 5 April 2016. Retrieved 21 May 2016.
During the war, in 1810, a revolutionary body, the Cortes of Cádiz, was assembled to co-ordinate the effort against the Bonapartist regime and to prepare a constitution.[86] It met as one body, and its members represented the entire Spanish empire.[87] In 1812, a constitution for universal representation under a constitutional monarchy was declared, but after the fall of the Bonapartist regime, the Spanish king dismissed the Cortes Generales, set on ruling as an absolute monarch.
"Educación Secundaria Obligatoria (ESO)│Ministerio de Educación y Formación Profesional" (in Spanish). Retrieved 26 November 2020.
^ Tremlett, Giles (9 May 2005). "Spain grants amnesty to 700,000 migrants". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on 29 August 2013. Retrieved 20 July 2009.
^ Rincón, Reyes (25 November 2015). "The successes and failures of Spain's fight against domestic abuse". EL PAÍS. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017. Retrieved 9 May 2017.
There is the claim that "Hispania" derives from the Basque word Ezpannacode: eus promoted to code: eumeaning "edge" or "border", another reference to the fact that the Iberian Peninsula constitutes the southwest corner of the European continent.[27]
"Unidad de Policía de la Comunidad Autónoma de Andalucía" (in Spanish). Cartujo.org. Archived from the original on 7 November 2007. Retrieved 23 October 2007.
Julve, Rafa (9 March 2016). "Señores, se acabó la mili". El Periódico.
^ VAN ZANDEN, JAN LUITEN; BURINGH, ELTJO; BOSKER, MAARTEN (29 July 2011). "The rise and decline of European parliaments, 1188-17891". The Economic History Review. 65 (3): 835–861. doi:10.1111/j.1468-0289.2011.00612.x. ISSN 0013-0117. S2CID 154956049.
"La Formación Profesional actual en el sistema educativo – TodoFP│Ministerio de Educación y Formación Profesional"
^ Rinehart, Robert; Seeley, Jo Ann Browning (1998). "A Country Study: Spain – Bourbon Spain". Library of Congress Country Series. Archived from the original on 9 August 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ Bloom, Jonathan M. (2020). Architecture of the Islamic West. North Africa and the Iberian Peninsula. New Haven and London: Yale University Press. p. 88. ISBN 978-0-300-21870-1.
6Demographics											Toggle Demographics subsection																					6.1Urbanisation																											6.2Peoples																											6.3Minority groups																											6.4Immigration																											6.5Languages																											6.6Education																											6.7Health																											6.8Religion
^ a b c d "World Economic Outlook Database, October 2022". IMF.org. International Monetary Fund.
Though only about 17% of Spain's cultivated land was irrigated, it was estimated to be the source of between 40 and 45% of the gross value of crop production and of 50% of the value of agricultural exports. More than half of the irrigated area was planted in corn, fruit trees, and vegetables. Other agricultural products that benefited from irrigation included grapes, cotton, sugar beets, potatoes, legumes, olive trees, mangos, strawberries, tomatoes, and fodder grasses. Depending on the nature of the crop, it was possible to harvest two successive crops in the same year on about 10% of the country's irrigated land.
The Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC) is the leading public agency dedicated to scientific research in the country. It ranked as the 5th top governmental scientific institution worldwide (and 32nd overall) in the 2018 SCImago Institutions Rankings.[198] Spain was ranked 30th in the Global Innovation Index in 2021, down from 29th in 2019.[199][200][201][202]
"Speech by Mrs Nicole FONTAINE, President of the European Parliament on the occasion of the presentation of the Sakharov Prize 2000 to Basta ya!". Archived from the original on 2 October 2016.
^ Sandford, Alasdair (27 October 2017). "Catalonia: what direct rule from Madrid could mean". euronews. Archived from the original on 27 October 2017. Retrieved 27 October 2017.
^ Coluzzi, Paolo (2007). Minority Language Planning and Micronationalism in Italy: An Analysis of the Situation of Friulian, Cimbrian and Western Lombard with Reference to Spanish Minority Languages. Peter Lang. p. 103. ISBN 9783039110414.
^ "Spain's Indignados protest here to stay". BBC News. 15 May 2012. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
^ The term 'nationality' (Spanish: nacionalidad) was chosen carefully in order to avoid the more politically charged term 'nation'.
"How Spain became the world leader in organ transplants". www.thelocal.es. 15 September 2017. Retrieved 23 June 2019.
^ Jaime Alvar Ezquerra (2001). Diccionario de historia de España. Ediciones Akal. p. 209. ISBN 978-84-7090-366-3. Cortes of Cádiz (1812) was the first parliament of Spain with sovereign power
^ Casey, James (1999). Early Modern Spain: A Social History. Routledge. p. 83. ISBN 9780415138130.
With Franco's death in November 1975, Juan Carlos succeeded to the position of King of Spain and head of state in accordance with the Francoist law. With the approval of the new Spanish Constitution of 1978 and the restoration of democracy, the State devolved much authority to the regions and created an internal organisation based on autonomous communities. The Spanish 1977 Amnesty Law let people of Franco's regime continue inside institutions without consequences, even perpetrators of some crimes during transition to democracy like the Massacre of 3 March 1976 in Vitoria or 1977 Massacre of Atocha.
"Global Innovation Index 2021". World Intellectual Property Organization. United Nations. Retrieved 5 March 2022.
^ "Relatives of Spaniards who fled Franco granted citizenship". The Daily Telegraph. London. 28 December 2008. Archived from the original on 23 July 2013. Retrieved 18 January 2014.
Intermarriage between Visigoths and Hispano-Romans was prohibited, though in practice it could not be entirely prevented and was eventually legalised by Liuvigild.[36] The Spanish-Gothic scholars such as Braulio of Zaragoza and Isidore of Seville played an important role in keeping the classical Greek and Roman culture. Isidore was one of the most influential clerics and philosophers in the Middle Ages in Europe, and his theories were also vital to the conversion of the Visigothic Kingdom from an Arian domain to a Catholic one in the Councils of Toledo. Isidore created the first western encyclopedia which had a huge impact during the Middle Ages.[37]
The Spanish claim makes a distinction between the isthmus that connects the Rock to the Spanish mainland on the one hand, and the Rock and city of Gibraltar on the other. While the Rock and city were ceded by the Treaty of Utrecht, Spain asserts that the "occupation of the isthmus is illegal and against the principles of International Law".[136] The United Kingdom relies on de facto arguments of possession by prescription in relation to the isthmus,[137] as there has been "continuous possession [of the isthmus] over a long period".[138]
Beck, Bernard (24 September 2012). True Jew: Challenging the Stereotype. Algora Publishing. ISBN 9780875869032 – via Google Books.
"World Map of the Köppen-Geiger climate classification updated – (see p.3)"
2History											Toggle History subsection																					2.1Prehistory and pre-Roman peoples																											2.2Roman Hispania and the Visigothic Kingdom																											2.3Muslim era and Reconquista																											2.4Spanish Empire																								2.4.117th century																											2.4.218th century																														2.5Liberalism and nation state																											2.6Civil War and Francoist dictatorship																											2.7Restoration of democracy
Méndez-Barreira, Victor (7 August 2016). "Car Makers Pour Money into Spain". Wall Street Journal.
Payne, Stanley G. (1973). "A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 5 The Rise of Aragon-Catalonia". The Library of Iberian Resources Online. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
INE Archived 23 July 2013 at the Wayback Machine, 2011.
^ Alonso Villalobos, Carlos (1984). "Contribución al estudio de las invasiones mauritanas de la Bética en el siglo II" (PDF). Actas del II Congreso Andaluz deEstudios Clásicos. Vol. II. Sociedad Española de Estudios Clásicos.
After World War II Spain was politically and economically isolated, and was kept out of the United Nations. This changed in 1955, during the Cold War period, when it became strategically important for the US to establish a military presence on the Iberian Peninsula as a counter to any possible move by the Soviet Union into the Mediterranean basin. In the 1960s, Spain registered an unprecedented rate of economic growth which was propelled by industrialisation, a mass internal migration from rural areas to Madrid, Barcelona and the Basque Country and the creation of a mass tourism industry. Franco's rule was also characterised by authoritarianism, promotion of a unitary national identity, National Catholicism, and discriminatory language policies.
^ a b Rinehart, Robert; Seeley, Jo Ann Browning (1998). "A Country Study: Spain – The Golden Age". Library of Congress Country Series. Archived from the original on 9 August 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
Political corruption and repression weakened the democratic system of the constitutional monarchy of a two-parties system.[89] The July 1909 Tragic Week events and repression exemplified the social instability of the time.
Artists from Spain have been highly influential in the development of various European and American artistic movements. Due to historical, geographical and generational diversity, Spanish art has known a great number of influences. The Mediterranean heritage with Greco-Roman and some Moorish and influences in Spain, especially in Andalusia, is still evident today. European influences include Italy, Germany and France, especially during the Renaissance, Spanish Baroque and Neoclassical periods. There are many other autochthonous styles such as the Pre-Romanesque art and architecture, Herrerian architecture or the Isabelline Gothic.[citation needed]
"10 Most Famous Paintings by Diego Velazquez | Learnodo Newtonic"
^ "Catalonia independence: Rajoy dissolves Catalan parliament". BBC News. Barcelona, Madrid. 27 October 2017. Archived from the original on 28 October 2017. Retrieved 27 October 2017.
The Spanish road system is mainly centralised, with six highways connecting Madrid to the Basque Country, Catalonia, Valencia, West Andalusia, Extremadura and Galicia. Additionally, there are highways along the Atlantic (Ferrol to Vigo), Cantabrian (Oviedo to San Sebastián) and Mediterranean (Girona to Cádiz) coasts. Spain aims to put one million electric cars on the road by 2014 as part of the government's plan to save energy and boost energy efficiency.[190] The former Minister of Industry Miguel Sebastián said that "the electric vehicle is the future and the engine of an industrial revolution."[191]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Presidency of the Government (11 October 1997). "Real Decreto 1560/1997, de 10 de octubre, por el que se regula el Himno Nacional" (PDF). Boletín Oficial del Estado núm. 244 (in Spanish). Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 September 2015.
^ Reviving the Reconquista in Southeast Asia: Moros and the Making of the Philippines, 1565–1662 By: Ethan P. Hawkley
Phillips, William D.; Phillips, Carla Rahn (2010). A Concise History of Spain. Cambridge University Press. p. 175. ISBN 9780521845137.
4Politics											Toggle Politics subsection																					4.1Government																											4.2Foreign relations																											4.3Military																											4.4Human rights																											4.5Administrative divisions																								4.5.1Autonomous communities																											4.5.2Provinces and municipalities
Simultaneously, the Christian kingdoms also developed their own styles; developing a pre-Romanesque style when for a while isolated from contemporary mainstream European architectural influences during the earlier Middle Ages, they later integrated the Romanesque and Gothic streams. There was then an extraordinary flourishing of the Gothic style that resulted in numerous instances being built throughout the entire territory. The so-called Mudéjar style came to designate works by Muslims, Christians and Jews in lands conquered from Muslims.[301]
Muslim strongholds in the Guadalquivir Valley such as Córdoba (1236) and Seville (1248) fell to Castile in the 13th century. The County of Barcelona and the Kingdom of Aragon entered in a dynastic union and gained territory and power in the Mediterranean. In 1229 Majorca was conquered, so was Valencia in 1238. In the 13th and 14th centuries, the North-African Marinids established some enclaves around the Strait of Gibraltar.
^ Flynn, Dennis O.; Giráldez Source, Arturo (1995). "Born with a 'Silver Spoon': The Origin of World Trade in 1571". Journal of World History. 6 (2): 202. JSTOR 20078638.
Premio Planeta de Novela and Miguel de Cervantes Prize are the two main awards nowadays in Spanish literature.
^ "Rival nationalisms in a plurinational state: Spain, Catalonia and the Basque Country". Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017.
In October 2017 a Catalan independence referendum was held and the Catalan parliament voted to unilaterally declare independence from Spain to form a Catalan Republic[109][110] on the day the Spanish Senate was discussing approving direct rule over Catalonia as called for by the Spanish Prime Minister.[111][112] On the same day the Senate granted the power to impose direct rule and Rajoy dissolved the Catalan parliament and called a new election.[113] No country recognised Catalonia as a separate state.[114]
The Mediterranean climate, characterised by warm/hot and dry summers, is dominant in the peninsula. It has two varieties: Csa and Csb according to the Köppen climate classification.The Csa zone is associated to areas with hot summers. It is predominant in the Mediterranean and Southern Atlantic coast and inland throughout Andalusia, Extremadura and much, if not most, of the centre of the country. The Csa zone covers climatic zones with both warm and cool winters which are considered extremely different from each other at a local level, reason for which Köppen classification is often eschewed within Spain. Local climatic maps generally divide the Mediterranean zone (which covers most of the country) between warm-winter and cool-winter zones, rather than according to summer temperatures.The Csb zone has warm rather than hot summers, and extends to additional cool-winter areas not typically associated with a Mediterranean climate, such as much of central and northern-central of Spain (e.g. western Castile–León, northeastern Castilla-La Mancha and northern Madrid) and into much rainier areas (notably Galicia). Note areas with substantial summer rainfall such as Galicia are classed as oceanic.
Tremlett, Giles (11 July 2012). "Mariano Rajoy announces €65bn in austerity measures for Spain". The Guardian. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
The official language of the State is established in the Section 3 of the Constitution of Spain to be Castilian.[2] In some autonomous communities, Catalan/Valencian, Galician, Basque and Occitan (locally known as Aranese) are co-official languages. Aragonese and Asturian have some degree of government recognition at the regional level.
Méndez, Rafael (9 November 2009). "La eólica supera por primera vez la mitad de la producción eléctrica". El País (in Spanish). Ediciones El País. Archived from the original on 13 May 2011. Retrieved 8 August 2010.
Spain provides one of the highest degrees of liberty in the world for its LGBT community. Among the countries studied by Pew Research Center in 2013, Spain is rated first in acceptance of homosexuality, with 88% of those surveyed saying that homosexuality should be accepted.[151]
The Spanish Constitution of 1978, in its second article, generically recognises contemporary entities—'nationalities and regions'—[l] within the context of the Spanish nation.
^ The poets Martial, Quintilian and Lucan were also born in Hispania.
The royal line of Aragon became extinct with Martin the Humane, and the Compromise of Caspe gave the Crown to the House of Trastámara, already reigning in Castile.
The automotive industry is one of the largest employers in the country. In 2015 Spain was the 8th largest automobile producer country in the world and the 2nd largest car manufacturer in Europe after Germany.[174]
^ DiGregorio, Sarah (1 December 2009). "Spain Gain at Mercat Negre". The Village Voice. New York. Archived from the original on 8 December 2009. Retrieved 6 August 2010.
– in Europe (green & dark grey)– in the European Union (green)
^ "An election bombshell". The Economist. 18 March 2004. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
The .eu domain is also used, as it is shared with other European Union member states. Also, the .cat domain is used in Catalonia, .gal in Galicia and .eus in the Basque-Country autonomous regions.
Habsburg Spain was one of the leading world powers throughout the 16th century and most of the 17th century, a position reinforced by trade and wealth from colonial possessions and became the world's leading maritime power. It reached its apogee during the reigns of the first two Spanish Habsburgs—Charles V/I (1516–1556) and Philip II (1556–1598). This period saw the Italian Wars, the Schmalkaldic War, the Dutch Revolt, the War of the Portuguese Succession, clashes with the Ottomans, intervention in the French Wars of Religion and the Anglo-Spanish War.[70]
^ Añón Higón, Dolores; Díez-Minguela, Alfonso (2021). "Do universities matter for the location of foreign R&D?". Business Research Quarterly: 1; 5. doi:10.1177/23409444211042382. S2CID 239695136.
^ "The Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA): Spain" (PDF).
Rinehart, Robert; Seeley, Jo Ann Browning (1998). "A Country Study: Spain – Spain in Decline". Library of Congress Country Series. Archived from the original on 9 August 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
"Summit". worldpridemadrid2017.com (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 12 September 2017. Retrieved 12 September 2017.
^ "Global Innovation Index". INSEAD Knowledge. 28 October 2013. Archived from the original on 2 September 2021. Retrieved 2 September 2021.
"Asociación Empresarial Eólica – Spanish Wind Energy Association – Energía Eólica"
^ Garcia Cantalapiedra, David, and Ramon Pacheco Pardo, Contemporary Spanish Foreign Policy (Routledge, 2014). Pg. 126
Rincón, Reyes (25 November 2015). "The successes and failures of Spain's fight against domestic abuse". EL PAÍS. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017. Retrieved 9 May 2017.
"Spain to Put 1 million Electric Cars on the Road". Triplepundit.com. 30 July 2008. Archived from the original on 23 November 2008. Retrieved 19 November 2008.
"Estatut" (PDF) (in Spanish). Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 March 2009. Retrieved 20 July 2009.
3 Oceanic islands within the vicinity of Europe are usually grouped with the continent even though they are not situated on its continental shelf.
"Financial crisis reveals vulnerability of Spain's immigrants – Feature". The Earth Times. 18 November 2009.
"Youth unemployment rate in EU member states as of March 2018"
"The world's most expensive ham is from Huelva and costs €4,100 a leg"
In 2002, the Prestige oil spill occurred with big ecological consequences along Spain's Atlantic coastline. In 2003 José María Aznar supported US president George W. Bush in the Iraq War, and a strong movement against war rose in Spanish society. In March 2004 a local Islamist terrorist group inspired by Al-Qaeda carried out the largest terrorist attack in Western European history when they killed 191 people and wounded more than 1,800 others by bombing commuter trains in Madrid.[99] Though initial suspicions focused on the Basque terrorist group ETA, evidence of Islamist involvement soon emerged. Because of the proximity of the 2004 Spanish general election, the issue of responsibility quickly became a political controversy, with the main competing parties PP and PSOE exchanging accusations over the handling of the incident.[100] The PSOE won the election, led by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero.[101]
Spain is a Western country and one of the major Latin countries of Europe, and a cultural superpower.[270][271] Spanish culture is marked by strong historic ties to the Catholic Church, which played a pivotal role in the country's formation and subsequent identity.[272] Spanish art, architecture, cuisine, and music have been shaped by successive waves of foreign invaders, as well as by the country's Mediterranean climate and geography. The centuries-long colonial era globalised Spanish language and culture, with Spain also absorbing the cultural and commercial products of its diverse empire.
^ In Spain, some other languages enjoy co-official status in certain regions in accordance with the latter's Statutes of Autonomy. In each of these, Spain's conventional long name for international affairs in Spanish laws and the most used (Spanish: Reino de España, pronounced: [ˈrejno ð(e) esˈpaɲa]) is as follows:Catalan: Regne d'Espanya, IPA: [ˈreŋnə ðəsˈpaɲə]Basque: Espainiako Erresuma, IPA: [es̺paɲiako eres̺uma]Galician: Reino de España, IPA: [ˈrejnʊ ð(ɪ) esˈpaɲɐ]Occitan: Reiaume d'Espanha, IPA: [reˈjawme ðesˈpaɲɔ]
"Anthropogenic modification of forests means only 40% of remaining forests have high ecosystem integrity – Supplementary Material"
"Spain king: Juan Carlos signs his abdication". BBC News. 18 June 2014. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
The French occupation of Mainland Spain created an opportunity for overseas criollo elites who resented the privilege towards Peninsular elites and demanded retroversion of the sovereignty to the people. Starting in 1809 the American colonies began a series of revolutions and declared independence, leading to the Spanish American wars of independence that put an end to the metropole's grip over the Spanish Main. Attempts to re-assert control proved futile with opposition not only in the colonies but also in the Iberian peninsula and army revolts followed, led by liberal officers. By the end of 1826, the only American colonies Spain held were Cuba and Puerto Rico.
"Surface water and surface water change". Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Retrieved 11 October 2020.
Ortiz, Fiona (22 April 2013). "Spain's population falls as immigrants flee crisis". Reuters. Archived from the original on 2 September 2017. Retrieved 2 September 2017.
The construct pertaining a distinctive Spanish philosophical thought has been variously approached by academia, either by diachronically tracing its development throughout the centuries from the Roman conquest of Hispania on (with early representatives such as Seneca, Trajan, Lucan, or Martial); by pinpointing its origins to the late 19th century (associated to the Generation of 98); or simply by outright denying its existence.[287] The crux around the existence of a Spanish philosophy pitted the likes of Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo (chief architect of the myth around it)[288] against Antonio Pérez.[289] Foreign imports such as Krausism proved to be extremely influential in Spain in the 19th and early 20th centuries.[290]
"The Spanish Constitution". Lamoncloa.gob.es. Archived from the original on 25 March 2013. Retrieved 26 April 2013.
^ Hinojosa Montalvo, José (2000). "Los judíos en la España medieval: de la tolerancia a la expulsión" (PDF). Los marginados en el mundo medieval y moderno : Almería, 5 a 7 de noviembre de 1998. p. 28. ISBN 84-8108-206-6.
^ "Rajoy ahoy". The Economist. 21 November 2011. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
The Spanish constitution enshrines secularism in governance, as well as freedom of religion or belief for all, saying that no religion should have a "state character," while allowing for the state to "cooperate" with religious groups.
There are several major rivers in Spain such as the Tagus (Tajo), Ebro, Guadiana, Douro (Duero), Guadalquivir, Júcar, Segura, Turia and Minho (Miño). Alluvial plains are found along the coast, the largest of which is that of the Guadalquivir in Andalusia.
"Spain to Put 1 million Electric Cars on the Road"
^ a b Richardson, Paul (19 August 2007). "Spain's perfect paella". The Times. London. Archived from the original on 4 June 2010. Retrieved 6 August 2010.
In the late 19th century nationalist movements arose in the Philippines and Cuba. In 1895 and 1896 the Cuban War of Independence and the Philippine Revolution broke out and eventually the United States became involved. The Spanish–American War was fought in the spring of 1898 and resulted in Spain losing the last of its once vast colonial empire outside of North Africa. El Desastre (the Disaster), as the war became known in Spain, gave added impetus to the Generation of '98 who were analyzing the country.
^ "Global leader Spain carries out its 100,000th transplant". www.thelocal.es. 25 February 2016. Retrieved 23 June 2019.
^ "CIA – The World Factbook – 5pain". Cia.gov. Retrieved 30 April 2011.
Some early examples of vernacular Romance-based literature include short snippets of Mozarabic Romance (such as refrains) sprinkled in Arabic and Hebrew texts.[275] Other examples of early Iberian Romance include the Glosas Emilianenses written in Latin, Basque and Romance.[276]
Smillie, Susan (18 January 2010). "World's most expensive ham?". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 31 October 2019.
Another statistically significant factor is the large number of residents of EU origin typically retiring to Spain's Mediterranean coast. In fact, Spain was Europe's largest absorber of migrants from 2002 to 2007, with its immigrant population more than doubling as 2.5 million people arrived.[235] In 2008, prior to the onset of the economic crisis, the Financial Times reported that Spain was the most favoured destination for Western Europeans considering a move from their own country and seeking jobs elsewhere in the EU.[236]
^ The Berbers soon gave up attempting to settle the harsh lands in the north of the Meseta Central (Inner Plateau) handed to them by the Arab rulers.
"Health care in Spain: Beneficiairies". seg-social.es. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017. Retrieved 24 September 2017.
Montes Fernández, Francisco José (2011). "Recordando la historia del cine español" (PDF). Anuario Jurídico y Económico Escurialense. XLIV. ISSN 1133-3677.
In the field of classical music, Spain has produced a number of noted composers such as Isaac Albéniz, Manuel de Falla and Enrique Granados and singers and performers such as Plácido Domingo, José Carreras, Montserrat Caballé, Alicia de Larrocha, Alfredo Kraus, Pablo Casals, Ricardo Viñes, José Iturbi, Pablo de Sarasate, Jordi Savall and Teresa Berganza. In Spain there are over forty professional orchestras, including the Orquestra Simfònica de Barcelona, Orquesta Nacional de España and the Orquesta Sinfónica de Madrid. Major opera houses include the Teatro Real, the Gran Teatre del Liceu, Teatro Arriaga and the El Palau de les Arts Reina Sofía.
The vegetation of Spain is varied due to several factors including the diversity of the terrain, the climate and latitude. Spain includes different phytogeographic regions, each with its own floral characteristics resulting largely from the interaction of climate, topography, soil type and fire, and biotic factors. The country had a 2019 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 4.23/10, ranking it 130th globally out of 172 countries.[120]
^ Recalde Fernández, Montserrat (2016). "A contribución da inmigración ao multilingüismo do Estado español" (PDF).In Recalde Fernández, Montserrat; Silva Domínguez, Carme (eds.). Ser inmigrante en tempos de crise. Unha ollada multidisciplinar. Servizo de Publicacións e Intercambio Científico da Universidade de Compostela. p. 175. doi:10.15304/9788416533015. ISBN 9788416533015.
Centro de Investigaciones Sociológicas: Barómetro de Julio 2020, página 21.¿Cómo se define Ud. en materia religiosa: católico/a practicante, católico/a no practicante, creyente de otra religión, agnóstico/a, indiferente o no creyente, o ateo/a?
"DataBank - Population estimates and projections". The World Bank. 2023. Retrieved 6 January 2023.
Extending to 1,214 km (754 mi), the Portugal–Spain border is the longest uninterrupted border within the European Union.[118]
^ "Spain's Iberdrola signs investment accord with Gulf group Taqa". Forbes. 25 May 2008. Archived from the original on 7 June 2010.
"Q&A: Gibraltar's referendum". BBC News. 8 November 2002. Archived from the original on 14 March 2007. Retrieved 19 February 2010.
In Spain, some other languages enjoy co-official status in certain regions in accordance with the latter's Statutes of Autonomy. In each of these, Spain's conventional long name for international affairs in Spanish laws and the most used (Spanish: Reino de España, pronounced: [ˈrejno ð(e) esˈpaɲa]) is as follows:Catalan: Regne d'Espanya, IPA: [ˈreŋnə ðəsˈpaɲə]Basque: Espainiako Erresuma, IPA: [es̺paɲiako eres̺uma]Galician: Reino de España, IPA: [ˈrejnʊ ð(ɪ) esˈpaɲɐ]Occitan: Reiaume d'Espanha, IPA: [reˈjawme ðesˈpaɲɔ]
^ Abrabanel, Commentary on the First Prophets (Pirush Al Nevi'im Rishonim), end of II Kings, pp. 680–681, Jerusalem 1955 (Hebrew). See also Shelomo (also spelled Sholomo, Solomon or Salomón) ibn Verga, Shevet Yehudah, pp. 6b–7a, Lemberg 1846 (Hebrew)
"El AVE español, el más veloz del mundo y el segundo en puntualidad". El Mundo. Spain. 10 November 2010. Archived from the original on 9 November 2011. Retrieved 5 June 2011.
^ "14 reactores nucleares movidos por el viento". El País. 9 November 2010. Retrieved 5 June 2011.
"EU27 Member States granted citizenship to 696 000 persons in 2008 Archived 6 September 2014 at the Wayback Machine" (PDF). Eurostat. 6 July 2010.
"World Mayor: The 2012 results". worldmayor.com. Archived from the original on 11 January 2013.
World Health Organisation, World Health Staff, (2000), Haden, Angela; Campanini, Barbara, eds., The world health report 2000 – Health systems: improving performance (PDF), Geneva: World Health Organisation, ISBN 92-4-156198-X
The governments of all autonomous communities must be based on a division of powers and comprise
^ "Algae Based Biofuels in Plain English: Why it Matters, How it Works. (algae algaebiofuels carbonsequestration valcent vertigro algaebasedbiofuels ethanol)". Triplepundit.com. 30 July 2008. Archived from the original on 18 May 2013. Retrieved 19 November 2008.
"Los musulmanes en España superan por primera vez los 2 millones de personas"
In 2010, the Basque city of Bilbao was awarded with the Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize,[171] and its mayor at the time, Iñaki Azkuna, was awarded the World Mayor Prize in 2012.[172] The Basque capital city of Vitoria-Gasteiz received the European Green Capital Award in 2012.[173]
The armed forces of Spain are known as the Spanish Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas Españolas). Their commander-in-chief is the King of Spain, Felipe VI.[142]
^ "Spain king: Juan Carlos signs his abdication". BBC News. 18 June 2014. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
"Spain Is World's Leader in Solar Energy". NPR.org. NPR. 15 July 2010. Archived from the original on 19 September 2010. Retrieved 4 September 2010.
"Algae Based Biofuels in Plain English: Why it Matters, How it Works. (algae algaebiofuels carbonsequestration valcent vertigro algaebasedbiofuels ethanol)". Triplepundit.com. 30 July 2008. Archived from the original on 18 May 2013. Retrieved 19 November 2008.
^ Bailey, Dominic (14 March 2004). "Spain votes under a shadow". BBC. Archived from the original on 25 August 2004. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ Martínez Shaw, Carlos (2016). "El Despotismo Ilustrado en España: entre la continuidad y el cambio" (PDF). El Siglo de las Luces: III Centenario del Nacimiento de José de Hermosilla (1715-1776). p. 14. ISBN 978-84-608-8037-0.
^ "'First west Europe tooth' found". BBC. 30 June 2007. Archived from the original on 21 October 2009. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
Bloom, Jonathan M. (2020). Architecture of the Islamic West. North Africa and the Iberian Peninsula. New Haven and London: Yale University Press. p. 88. ISBN 978-0-300-21870-1.
Pages using collapsible list with both background and text-align in titlestyle
^ Méndez, Rafael (9 November 2009). "La eólica supera por primera vez la mitad de la producción eléctrica". El País (in Spanish). Ediciones El País. Archived from the original on 13 May 2011. Retrieved 8 August 2010.
^ Thomas, Hugh (2003). Rivers of gold: the rise of the Spanish Empire. London: George Weidenfeld & Nicolson. pp. passim. ISBN 978-0-297-64563-4.
"Estudio n.º 3390. Barómetro de enero de 2023. Pregunta 29 ¿Cómo se define Ud. en materia religiosa: católico/a practicante, católico/a no practicante, creyente de otra religión, agnóstico/a, indiferente o no creyente, o ateo/a? | PEW-GRF" (PDF).
^ "Youth unemployment rate in EU member states as of March 2018". Statista.
^ Ramallo, Fernando (2018). "Linguistic diversity in Spain".In Ayres-Bennett, Wendy; Carruthers, Janice (eds.). Manual of Romance Sociolinguistics. De Gruyter. p. 462. doi:10.1515/9783110365955-018. ISBN 9783110365955. S2CID 158999790.
Amorós Negre, Carla (2016), "The spread of Castilian/Spanish in Spain and the Americas: A relatively successful language standardisation experience", Sociolinguistica: Internationales Jahrbuch für Europäische Soziolinguistik=International Yearbook of European Sociolinguistics=Annuaire International de la Sociolinguistique Européenne, 1 (30): 26–28, ISSN 0933-1883
">> Spain in numbers". Invest in Spain. Archived from the original on 26 March 2013. Retrieved 13 March 2013.
"Catalonians vote for more autonomy". CNN. 18 June 2006. Archived from the original on 4 June 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008. See also: "Economic Survey: Spain 2005". Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Archived from the original on 17 April 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008. and "Country Briefings: Spain". The Economist. Archived from the original on 14 October 2012. Retrieved 9 August 2008. and "Swiss Experience With Decentralized Government" (PDF). The World Bank. Archived (PDF) from the original on 19 August 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
"Notes on Entering Deen Completely: Islam as its followers know it"
^ ">> Spain in numbers". Invest in Spain. Archived from the original on 26 March 2013. Retrieved 13 March 2013.
Lewis, Bernard (1984). The Jews of Islam. Princeton: Princeton University Press. p. 62. ISBN 978-0-691-00807-3. Dhimmi have fewer legal and social rights than Muslims, but more rights than other non-Muslims.
"Effect of the covid-19 pandemic in 2020 on life expectancy across populations in the USA and other high income countries: simulations of provisional mortality data"
Joaquín Sorolla is a well-known modern impressionist painter and there are many important Spanish painters belonging to the modernism art movement, including Pablo Picasso, Salvador Dalí, Juan Gris and Joan Miró.[citation needed]
^ "EU27 Member States granted citizenship to 696 000 persons in 2008 Archived 6 September 2014 at the Wayback Machine" (PDF). Eurostat. 6 July 2010.
In 1793, Spain went to war against the revolutionary new French Republic as a member of the first Coalition. The subsequent War of the Pyrenees polarised the country in a reaction against the gallicised elites and following defeat in the field, peace was made with France in 1795 at the Peace of Basel in which Spain lost control over two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola. In 1807, a secret treaty between Napoleon and the unpopular prime minister led to a new declaration of war against Britain and Portugal. French troops entered the country to invade Portugal but instead occupied Spain's major fortresses. The Spanish king abdicated and a puppet kingdom satellite to the French Empire was installed with Napoleon's brother Joseph Bonaparte as king.
Moa, Pío (2010). Nueva historia de España : de la II Guerra Púnica al siglo XXI (1. ed.). Madrid: Esfera de los Libros. ISBN 978-84-9734-952-9.
There are many festivals and festivities in Spain. Some of them are known worldwide, and millions of tourists from all over the world go to Spain annually to experience one of these festivals. One of the most famous is San Fermín, in Pamplona. While its most famous event is the encierro, or the running of the bulls, which happens at 8:00 am from 7 to 14 July, the seven days-long celebration involves many other traditional and folkloric events. The events were central to the plot of The Sun Also Rises, by Ernest Hemingway, which brought it to the general attention of English-speaking people. As the result, it has become one of the most internationally renowned fiestas in Spain, with over 1,000,000 people attending every year.
^ "Spain powers ahead with high-speed rail". railpro.co.uk. January 2010. Archived from the original on 21 July 2011. Retrieved 5 June 2011.
We are All Moors: Ending Centuries of Crusades Against Muslims and Other Minorities
"Resolution 2070: Question of Gibraltar" (PDF). United Nations. 16 December 1965. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 May 2011. Retrieved 19 February 2010.
Conversion to Islam proceeded at an increasing pace. The muladíes (Muslims of ethnic Iberian origin) are believed to have formed the majority of the population of Al-Andalus by the end of the 10th century.[41][42]
The Kingfisher History Encyclopedia. 9 September 2004. p. 201. ISBN 978-0-7534-5784-9.
Ley Orgánica 8/2013 Archived 12 February 2015 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 9 December 2013
In 1311, Catalan mercenaries won a victory at the Battle of Halmyros, seizing the Frankish Duchy of Athens.[25][50]
Archaeological research at Atapuerca indicates the Iberian Peninsula was populated by hominids 1.2 million years ago.[29] In Atapuerca fossils have been found of the earliest known hominins in Europe, Homo antecessor. Modern humans first arrived in Iberia, from the north on foot, about 35,000 years ago.[30][failed verification] The best known artefacts of these prehistoric human settlements are the famous paintings in the Altamira cave of Cantabria in northern Iberia, which were created from 35,600 to 13,500 BCE by Cro-Magnon.[31][32] Archaeological and genetic evidence suggests that the Iberian Peninsula acted as one of several major refugia from which northern Europe was repopulated following the end of the last ice age.
"An election bombshell". The Economist. 18 March 2004. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
"Catalan crisis: Spain PM Rajoy demands direct rule". BBC. 27 October 2017. Archived from the original on 29 October 2017. Retrieved 27 October 2017.
^ Pike, A. W. G.; Hoffmann, D. L.; Garcia-Diez, M.; Pettitt, P. B.; Alcolea, J.; De Balbin, R.; Gonzalez-Sainz, C.; de las Heras, C.; Lasheras, J. A.; Montes, R.; Zilhao, J. (2012). "U-Series Dating of Paleolithic Art in 11 Caves in Spain". Science. 336 (6087): 1409–1413. Bibcode:2012Sci...336.1409P. doi:10.1126/science.1219957. ISSN 0036-8075. PMID 22700921. S2CID 7807664.
^ Kamen, Henry (1999). The Spanish Inquisition: A Historical Revision. Yale University Press. pp. 29–31.
"Compare your country - PISA 2018". www2.compareyourcountry.org. Retrieved 29 September 2021.
Spain claims sovereignty over the Perejil Island, a small, uninhabited rocky islet located in the South shore of the Strait of Gibraltar. The island lies 250 metres (820 ft) just off the coast of Morocco, 8 kilometres (5.0 mi) from Ceuta and 13.5 kilometres (8.4 mi) from mainland Spain. Its sovereignty is disputed between Spain and Morocco. It was the subject of an armed incident between the two countries in 2002. The incident ended when both countries agreed to return to the status quo ante which existed prior to the Moroccan occupation of the island. The islet is now deserted and without any sign of sovereignty.
^ Spanish Civil War fighters look back[permanent dead link], BBC News, 23 February 2003
Spanish cinema has achieved major international success including Oscars for recent films such as Pan's Labyrinth and Volver.[296]
"The Black Death". Channel 4. Archived from the original on 9 July 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ Spain to increase immigration budget Archived 30 August 2008 at the Wayback Machine, 10 October 2007
^ Handbook of European History. Penguin Random House Grupo Editorial España. 1994. ISBN 90-04-09760-0.
^ "Spain disputes Portugal islands" Archived 8 September 2013 at the Wayback Machine The Portugal News. Retrieved 9 September 2013.
a government council, with executive and administrative functions headed by a president, elected by the Legislative Assembly and nominated by the King of Spain;
The poets Martial, Quintilian and Lucan were also born in Hispania.
Strom, Yale (24 September 1992). The Expulsion of the Jews: Five Hundred Years of Exodus. SP Books. p. 9. ISBN 9781561710812 – via Internet Archive.
^ "World Map of the Köppen-Geiger climate classification updated – (see p.3)" (PDF). Retrieved 30 April 2011.
^ a b "Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Población (españoles/extranjeros) por País de Nacimiento, sexo y año". ine.es. Instituto Nacional de Estadística.
"Economic report" (PDF). Bank of Spain. Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 July 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
Schaff, Philip (24 March 2015). "The Christian Church from the 1st to the 20th Century". Delmarva Publications, Inc. – via Google Books.
Spain's autonomous communities are the first level administrative divisions of the country. They were created after the current constitution came into effect (in 1978) in recognition of the right to self-government of the "nationalities and regions of Spain".[152] The autonomous communities were to comprise adjacent provinces with common historical, cultural, and economic traits. This territorial organisation, based on devolution, is known in Spain as the "State of Autonomies".
Coordinates: .mw-parser-output .geo-default,.mw-parser-output .geo-dms,.mw-parser-output .geo-dec{display:inline}.mw-parser-output .geo-nondefault,.mw-parser-output .geo-multi-punct{display:none}.mw-parser-output .longitude,.mw-parser-output .latitude{white-space:nowrap}40°N 4°W﻿ / ﻿40°N 4°W﻿ / 40; -4
20th-century authors were classified in loose literary generations such as the Generation of '98, the Generation of '27, Generation of '36 and the Generation of '50.
^ Rinehart, Robert; Seeley, Jo Ann Browning (1998). "A Country Study: Spain – Castile and Aragon". Library of Congress Country Series. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ Jaleel, Talib (11 July 2015). "Notes on Entering Deen Completely: Islam as its followers know it". EDC Foundation – via Google Books.
Payne, Stanley G. (1973). "A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 14 Spanish Society and Economics in the Imperial Age". The Library of Iberian Resources Online. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ Tremlett, Giles (11 July 2012). "Mariano Rajoy announces €65bn in austerity measures for Spain". The Guardian. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
^ Bernaldo de Quirós Guidolti, Federico; Cabrera Valdés, Victoria (1994). "Cronología del arte paleolítico" (PDF). Complutum. 5: 265–276. ISSN 1131-6993. Retrieved 17 November 2012.
^ "Diagnóstico social de la comunidad gitana en España" (PDF). Msc.es. Archived (PDF) from the original on 27 December 2016. Retrieved 21 May 2016.
^ Conversi, Daniele (2002). "The Smooth Transition: Spain's 1978 Constitution and the Nationalities Question" (PDF). National Identities, Vol 4, No. 3. Carfax Publishing, Inc. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 May 2008. Retrieved 28 January 2008.
Source: "Áreas urbanas +50", Ministry of Public Works and Transport (2013)[212]
Islamic and Christian Spain in the Early Middle Ages. Chapter 5: Ethnic Relations, Thomas F. Glick
Judaism was practically non-existent in Spain from the 1492 expulsion until the 19th century, when Jews were again permitted to enter the country. Currently there are around 62,000 Jews in Spain, or 0.14% of the total population. Most are arrivals in the past century, while some are descendants of earlier Spanish Jews. Approximately 80,000 Jews are thought to have lived in Spain prior to its expulsion.[268] However the Jewish Encyclopedia states the number over 800,000 to be too large and 235,000 as too small: 165,000 is given as expelled as possibly too small in favour of 200,000, and the numbers of converts after the 1391 pogroms as less. Other sources suggest 200,000 converts mostly after the pogroms of 1391 and upwards of 100,000 expelled. Descendants of these Sephardic Jews expelled in 1492 are given Spanish nationality if they request it.[269]
Whitehouse, Mark (6 November 2010). "Number of the Week: $10.2 Trillion in Global Borrowing". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on 20 September 2017.
Majid, Anouar (24 September 2009). We are All Moors: Ending Centuries of Crusades Against Muslims and Other Minorities. U of Minnesota Press. ISBN 9780816660797 – via Google Books.
Prime Minister (head of government) or "President of the Government" (Presidente del Gobierno): Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, elected 1 June 2018.
^ Lara Galera, Antonio L. (2015). "El AVE Madrid-Barcelona, una obra de mérito" (PDF). Revista de Obras Públicas (3569): 57. ISSN 0034-8619.
"Global Acceptance of Homosexuality". Pew Research Center. 4 June 2013. Archived from the original on 10 November 2014.
The basic institutional law of each autonomous community is the Statute of Autonomy. The Statutes of Autonomy establish the name of the community according to its historical and contemporary identity, the limits of its territories, the name and organisation of the institutions of government and the rights they enjoy according to the constitution.[153]
^ "Human Development Report 2021/2022" (PDF). United Nations Development Programme. 8 September 2022. Retrieved 8 September 2022.
^ "The Economist Intelligence Unit's quality-of-life index" (PDF). The Economist Intelligence Unit. p. 4. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2 August 2012. Retrieved 19 August 2010.
"Analysis of 8 years of Gender Violence Law in Spain | Gender violence and justice". justiciadegenero.com. 4 March 2015. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017. Retrieved 9 May 2017.
Añón Higón, Dolores; Díez-Minguela, Alfonso (2021). "Do universities matter for the location of foreign R&D?". Business Research Quarterly: 1; 5. doi:10.1177/23409444211042382. S2CID 239695136.
^ Angel Alañón & M. Gómez-Antonio, [Estimating the size of the shadow economy in Spain: a structural model with latent variables], Applies Economics, Vol 37, Issue 9, pp. 1011–1025 (2005).
^ a b Anthon, Charles (1850). A system of ancient and mediæval geography for the use of schools and colleges. New York: Harper & Brothers. p. 14.
Recent Migration of Roma in Europe, A study by Mr. Claude Cahn and Professor Elspeth Guild Archived 25 May 2017 at the Wayback Machine, pp. 87–88 (09.2010 figures)
^ Payne, Stanley G. (1973). "A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 13 The Spanish Empire". The Library of Iberian Resources Online. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ Roberto A. Ferdman, Spain's Black Market Economy Is Worth 20% of Its GDP: One million Spanish people have jobs in the underground economy Archived 11 September 2017 at the Wayback Machine, The Atlantic (16 July 2013)
Centro de Investigaciones Sociológicas (Centre for Sociological Research) (October 2019). "Macrobarómetro de octubre 2019, Banco de datos" (in Spanish). p. 160. Retrieved 17 December 2019. The question was "¿Cómo se define Ud. en materia religiosa: católico/a practicante, católico/a no practicante, creyente de otra religion, agnóstico/a, indiferente o no creyente, o ateo/a?", the weight used was "PESOCCAA" which reflects the population sizes of the Autonomous communities of Spain.
^ "The Situation of Roma in Spain" (PDF). Open Society Institute. Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 June 2008. Retrieved 14 August 2008.
In the 11th century, the Caliphate of Córdoba collapsed, fracturing into a series of petty kingdoms (Taifas),[46] often subject to the payment of a form of protection money (Parias) to the Northern Christian kingdoms, which otherwise undertook a southward territorial expansion. The capture of the strategic city of Toledo in 1085 marked a significant shift in the balance of power in favour of the Christian kingdoms.[citation needed] The arrival from North Africa of the Islamic ruling sects of the Almoravids and the Almohads achieved temporary unity upon the Muslim-ruled territory, with a stricter, less tolerant application of Islam, and partially reversed some Christian territorial gains.
In 2017, the average total fertility rate (TFR) across Spain was 1.33 children born per woman,[207] one of the lowest in the world, below the replacement rate of 2.1, it remains considerably below the high of 5.11 children born per woman in 1865.[208] Spain subsequently has one of the oldest populations in the world, with the average age of 43.1 years.[209]
Minority Language Planning and Micronationalism in Italy: An Analysis of the Situation of Friulian, Cimbrian and Western Lombard with Reference to Spanish Minority Languages
"Spain posts record number of 82 million inbound tourists in 2017"
DiGregorio, Sarah (1 December 2009). "Spain Gain at Mercat Negre". The Village Voice. New York. Archived from the original on 8 December 2009. Retrieved 6 August 2010.
^ "Gallup International Religiosity Index" (PDF). The Washington Post. WIN-Gallup International. April 2015. Archived (PDF) from the original on 1 February 2016.
^ Limón, Raúl (7 March 2016). "The world's most expensive ham is from Huelva and costs €4,100 a leg". El País. ISSN 1134-6582. Retrieved 31 October 2019.
"Catalan crisis: Regional MPs debate Spain takeover bid". BBC. 26 October 2017. Archived from the original on 26 October 2017. Retrieved 27 October 2017.
"El Despotismo Ilustrado en España: entre la continuidad y el cambio"
^ Medina García, Eusebio (2006). «Orígenes históricos y ambigüedad de la frontera hispano-lusa (La Raya)» Archived 25 May 2017 at the Wayback Machine. Revista de Estudios Extremeños. Tomo LXII (II Mayo-Agosto). ISSN 0210-2854, pp. 713–723.
"Avance del Padrón Municipal a 1 de enero de 2006. Datos provisionales"
As of 2021, the festivals of San Sebastián and Málaga are ranked among the top cultural initiatives in the country.[298]
Paloma Aguilar, Carsten Humlebæk, "Collective Memory and National Identity in the Spanish Democracy: The Legacies of Francoism and the Civil War", History & Memory, 1 April 2002, pag. 121–164
"Speech by Mrs Nicole FONTAINE, President of the European Parliament on the occasion of the presentation of the Sakharov Prize 2000 to Basta ya!"
"Mapping heterogeneity in a research system: The emergence of a 'hybrid' organizational field between science and industry"
In 2008, the government instituted a "Plan of Voluntary Return" which encouraged unemployed immigrants from outside the EU to return to their home countries and receive several incentives, including the right to keep their unemployment benefits and transfer whatever they contributed to the Spanish Social Security.[237] The programme had little effect; during its first two months, just 1,400 immigrants took up the offer.[238] What the programme failed to do, the sharp and prolonged economic crisis has done from 2010 to 2011 in that tens of thousands of immigrants have left the country due to lack of jobs. In 2011 alone, more than half a million people left Spain.[239] For the first time in decades the net migration rate was expected to be negative, and nine out of 10 emigrants were foreigners.[239]
"Acuerdo entre el Reino de España y Nueva Zelanda sobre participación en determinadas elecciones de los nacionales de cada país residentes en el territorio del otro, hecho en Wellington el 23 de junio de 2009". Noticias Jurídicas.
^ Salicrú i Lluch, Roser (2020). "Chapter 4 Granada and Its International Contacts". The Nasrid Kingdom of Granada between East and West. Brill. pp. 124–125. doi:10.1163/9789004443594_006. ISBN 9789004443594. S2CID 243153050.
^ "El AVE español, el más veloz del mundo y el segundo en puntualidad". El Mundo. Spain. 10 November 2010. Archived from the original on 9 November 2011. Retrieved 5 June 2011.
Islamic and Christian Spain in the Early Middle Ages. Chapter 5: Ethnic Relations
Spanish music is often considered abroad to be synonymous with flamenco, a West Andalusian musical genre, which, contrary to popular belief, is not widespread outside that region. Various regional styles of folk music abound in Aragon, Catalonia, Valencia, Castile, the Basque Country, Galicia, Cantabria and Asturias. Pop, rock, hip hop and heavy metal are also popular.
^ Payne, Stanley G. (1973). "A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 5 The Rise of Aragon-Catalonia". The Library of Iberian Resources Online. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
Air and Space Force (Ejército del Aire y del Espacio)
By the mid-1990s the economy had commenced the growth that had been disrupted by the global recession of the early 1990s. The strong economic growth helped the government to reduce the government debt as a percentage of GDP and Spain's high unemployment rate began to steadily decline. With the government budget in balance and inflation under control Spain was admitted into the Eurozone in 1999.
Spain to increase immigration budget Archived 30 August 2008 at the Wayback Machine, 10 October 2007
"Beyond Bullfights and Sangria: Five Centuries of Spanish History through Its Music, Art, and Literature - UC San Diego Extension". Archived from the original on 25 November 2016. Retrieved 27 November 2016.
"Spain posts record number of 82 million inbound tourists in 2017". 10 January 2018. Retrieved 10 February 2018.
In January 2020, the COVID-19 virus was confirmed to have spread to Spain, where it had caused as of June 2021 more than 80,000 deaths, causing life expectancy to drop by more than 1 year.[116]
"Human Development Report 2021/2022" (PDF). United Nations Development Programme. 8 September 2022. Retrieved 8 September 2022.
After the return of democracy following the death of Franco in 1975, Spain's foreign policy priorities were to break out of the diplomatic isolation of the Franco years and expand diplomatic relations, enter the European Community, and define security relations with the West.
Recalde Fernández, Montserrat (2016). "A contribución da inmigración ao multilingüismo do Estado español" (PDF).In Recalde Fernández, Montserrat; Silva Domínguez, Carme (eds.). Ser inmigrante en tempos de crise. Unha ollada multidisciplinar. Servizo de Publicacións e Intercambio Científico da Universidade de Compostela. p. 175. doi:10.15304/9788416533015. ISBN 9788416533015.
During the Enlightenment we find names such as Leandro Fernández de Moratín, Benito Jerónimo Feijóo, Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos or Leandro Fernández de Moratín.
Thousands of music fans also travel to Spain each year for internationally recognised summer music festivals Sónar which often features the top up and coming pop and techno acts, and Benicàssim which tends to feature alternative rock and dance acts.[302] Both festivals mark Spain as an international music presence and reflect the tastes of young people in the country.[citation needed]Vitoria-Gasteiz jazz festival is one of the main ones in its genre.
The Napoleonic War left Spain economically ruined, deeply divided and politically unstable. In the 1830s and 1840s, Carlism (a reactionary legitimist movement supportive of an alternative Bourbon branch), fought against the government forces supportive of Queen Isabella II's dynastic rights in the Carlist Wars. Government forces prevailed, but the conflict between progressives and moderates ended in a weak early constitutional period. The 1868 Glorious Revolution was followed by the 1868–1874 progressive Sexenio Democrático (including the short-lived First Spanish Republic), which yielded to a stable monarchic period, the Restoration (1875–1931), a rigid bipartisan regime underpinned by the turnismo (the prearranged rotation of government control between liberals and conservatives) and the form of political representation at the countryside (based on clientelism) known as caciquismo [es].[88]
"Youth unemployment rate in EU member states as of March 2018". Statista.
^ The .eu domain is also used, as it is shared with other European Union member states. Also, the .cat domain is used in Catalonia, .gal in Galicia and .eus in the Basque-Country autonomous regions.
^ World Health Organisation, World Health Staff, (2000), Haden, Angela; Campanini, Barbara, eds., The world health report 2000 – Health systems: improving performance (PDF), Geneva: World Health Organisation, ISBN 92-4-156198-X
There are 47 public airports in Spain. The busiest one is the airport of Madrid (Barajas), with 50 million passengers in 2011, being the world's 15th busiest airport, as well as the European Union's fourth busiest. The airport of Barcelona (El Prat) is also important, with 35 million passengers in 2011, being the world's 31st-busiest airport. Other main airports are located in Majorca (23 million passengers), Málaga (13 million passengers), Las Palmas (Gran Canaria) (11 million passengers), Alicante (10 million passengers) and smaller, with the number of passengers between 4 and 10 million, for example Tenerife (two airports), Valencia, Seville, Bilbao, Ibiza, Lanzarote, Fuerteventura. Also, more than 30 airports with the number of passengers below 4 million.
^ Anirudh. "10 Most Famous Paintings by Diego Velazquez | Learnodo Newtonic". Retrieved 21 November 2020.
^ Minder, Raphael (June 2018). "Spain's Prime Minister, Mariano Rajoy, Is Ousted in No-Confidence Vote". The New York Times. Retrieved 18 June 2018.
Pfanner, Eric (11 July 2002). "Economy reaps benefits of entry to the 'club': Spain's euro bonanza". International Herald Tribune. Archived from the original on 1 May 2011. Retrieved 9 August 2008. See also: "Spain's economy / Plain sailing no longer". The Economist. 3 May 2007. Archived from the original on 13 June 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ "Global Innovation Index 2019". www.wipo.int. Retrieved 2 September 2021.
Spain's 16th-century maritime supremacy was demonstrated by the victory over the Ottoman Empire at the Battle of Lepanto in 1571 and over Portugal at the Battle of Ponta Delgada in 1582, and then after the setback of the Spanish Armada in 1588, in a series of victories against England in the Anglo-Spanish War of 1585–1604. However, during the middle decades of the 17th century Spain's maritime power went into a long decline with mounting defeats against the Dutch Republic (Battle of the Downs) and then England in the Anglo-Spanish War of 1654–1660; that by the 1660s it was struggling grimly to defend its overseas possessions from pirates and privateers.
The La Canadiense strike in 1919 led to the first law limiting the working day to eight hours.[90]
^ Rinehart, Robert; Seeley, Jo Ann Browning (1998). "A Country Study: Spain – Spain in Decline". Library of Congress Country Series. Archived from the original on 9 August 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ "Prize Laureates". leekuanyewworldcityprize.com.sg. Archived from the original on 28 February 2012.
Townson, N. (2007). Spain Transformed: The Franco Dictatorship, 1959-1975. Routledge. p. 7. ISBN 9780230592643.
Coluzzi, Paolo (2007). Minority Language Planning and Micronationalism in Italy: An Analysis of the Situation of Friulian, Cimbrian and Western Lombard with Reference to Spanish Minority Languages. Peter Lang. p. 103. ISBN 9783039110414.
^ "Global Guru | analysis". The Global Guru. Archived from the original on 6 January 2011. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ Cruz Artacho, Salvador (2003). "Caciquismo y mundo rural durante la Restauración".In Gutiérrez, Rosa Ana; Zurita, Rafael; Camurri, Renato (eds.). Elecciones y cultura política en España e Italia (1890–1923). Valencia: Universitat de València. p. 33. ISBN 84-370-5672-1.
^ "El Festival de San Sebastián y el de Málaga, entre las diez iniciativas culturales más importantes de España en 2021". Audiovisual451. 9 February 2022.
^ "The Seventeenth-Century Decline". The Library of Iberian resources online. Archived from the original on 21 September 2013. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ "Speech by Mrs Nicole FONTAINE, President of the European Parliament on the occasion of the presentation of the Sakharov Prize 2000 to Basta ya!". Archived from the original on 2 October 2016.
"Spain". UNESCO Culture Sector. Archived from the original on 26 September 2014. Retrieved 14 September 2014.
^ "Estatuto de Autonomía de Aragón". Narros.congreso.es. Archived from the original on 11 December 2009. Retrieved 20 July 2009.
^ Ley 25/1992 Archived 27 December 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Documento BOE-A-1992-24854, Agencia Estatal Boletín Oficial del Estado
^ Biodiversidad, Fundación (18 February 2014). "The Foundation". Fundación Biodiversidad. Retrieved 24 September 2022.
"Music Festivals, UK Festivals and London Festivals". Spoonfed.co.uk. Archived from the original on 28 October 2011. Retrieved 1 November 2011.
Jaime Alvar Ezquerra (2001). Diccionario de historia de España. Ediciones Akal. p. 209. ISBN 978-84-7090-366-3. Cortes of Cádiz (1812) was the first parliament of Spain with sovereign power
Nonetheless, recent amendments to existing Statutes of Autonomy or the promulgation of new Statutes altogether, have reduced the asymmetry between the powers originally granted to the nationalities and the rest of the regions.
"Bachillerato│Ministerio de Educación y Formación Profesional". Retrieved 26 November 2020.
The latifundia (sing., latifundium), large estates controlled by the aristocracy, were superimposed on the existing Iberian landholding system.
"Spain's Indignados protest here to stay". BBC News. 15 May 2012. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
Martínez Shaw, Carlos (2016). "El Despotismo Ilustrado en España: entre la continuidad y el cambio" (PDF). El Siglo de las Luces: III Centenario del Nacimiento de José de Hermosilla (1715-1776). p. 14. ISBN 978-84-608-8037-0.
Max Roser (2014), "Total Fertility Rate around the world over the last centuries", Our World in Data, Gapminder Foundation
1 Spans the conventional boundary between Europe and another continent.
Under Islamic law, Christians and Jews were given the subordinate status of dhimmi. This status permitted Christians and Jews to practice their religions as People of the Book but they were required to pay a special tax and had legal and social rights inferior to those of Muslims.[39][40]
^ a b Payne, Stanley G. (1973). "A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 1 Ancient Hispania". The Library of Iberian Resources Online. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
"Bank holidays in Spain". bank-holidays.com. Archived from the original on 18 September 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ "The Spanish Constitution". Lamoncloa.gob.es. Archived from the original on 25 March 2013. Retrieved 26 April 2013.
^ Energy in Sweden, Facts and figures, The Swedish Energy Agency, (in Swedish: Energiläget i siffror), Table for figure 49. Source: IEA/OECD [1]. Archived 16 October 2013 at the Wayback Machine
^ "Tratado de Utretch – Gibraltar (Spanish)". mgar.net. Archived from the original on 10 May 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
Thomas, Hugh (2003). Rivers of gold: the rise of the Spanish Empire. London: George Weidenfeld & Nicolson. pp. passim. ISBN 978-0-297-64563-4.
"El AVE español, el más veloz del mundo y el segundo en puntualidad"
The Spanish Empire: A Historical Encyclopedia [2 volumes]: A Historical Encyclopedia. ABC-CLIO. 2016. p. 221. ISBN 978-1-61069-422-3.
^ "El jefe del Estado Mayor del Ejército de Tierra y 11 tenientes generales aspiran a JEMAD". La Vanguardia. 6 November 2016.
^ "Asociación Empresarial Eólica – Spanish Wind Energy Association – Energía Eólica". Aeeolica.
"The Situation of Roma in Spain" (PDF). Open Society Institute. 2002. Archived from the original (PDF) on 1 December 2007. Retrieved 15 September 2010. The Spanish government estimates the number of Gitanos at a maximum of 650,000.
Hinojosa Montalvo, José (2000). "Los judíos en la España medieval: de la tolerancia a la expulsión" (PDF). Los marginados en el mundo medieval y moderno : Almería, 5 a 7 de noviembre de 1998. p. 28. ISBN 84-8108-206-6.
"Asociación Empresarial Eólica – Spanish Wind Energy Association – Energía Eólica". Aeeolica.
Rinehart, Robert; Seeley, Jo Ann Browning (1998). "A Country Study: Spain – Bourbon Spain". Library of Congress Country Series. Archived from the original on 9 August 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
Spain has the most extensive high-speed rail network in Europe, and the second-most extensive in the world after China.[192][193] As of 2019, Spain has a total of over 3,400 km (2,112.66 mi) of high-speed tracks[194] linking Málaga, Seville, Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia and Valladolid, with the trains operated at commercial speeds up to 310 km/h (190 mph).[195] On average, the Spanish high-speed train is the fastest one in the world, followed by the Japanese bullet train and the French TGV.[196] Regarding punctuality, it is second in the world (98.5% on-time arrival) after the Japanese Shinkansen (99%).[197] Should the aims of the ambitious AVE programme (Spanish high speed trains) be met, by 2020 Spain will have 7,000 km (4,300 mi) of high-speed trains linking almost all provincial cities to Madrid in less than three hours and Barcelona within four hours.
^ Ley 24/1992 Archived 26 November 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Documento BOE-A-1992-24853, Agencia Estatal Boletín Oficial del Estado
The largest groups inhabiting the Iberian Peninsula before the Roman conquest were the Iberians and the Celts. The Iberians inhabited the Mediterranean side of the peninsula, from the northeast to the southeast. The Celts inhabited much of the interior and Atlantic side of the peninsula, from the northwest to the southwest. Basques occupied the western area of the Pyrenees mountain range and adjacent areas, the Phoenician-influenced Tartessians culture flourished in the southwest and the Lusitanians and Vettones occupied areas in the central west. Several cities were founded along the coast by Phoenicians, and trading outposts and colonies were established by Greeks in the East. Eventually, Phoenician-Carthaginians expanded inland towards the meseta; however, due to the bellicose inland tribes, the Carthaginians got settled in the coasts of the Iberian Peninsula.
"Human Development Report 2007/2008" (PDF). Hdr.undp.org. p. 330. Archived from the original (PDF) on 29 April 2011. Retrieved 18 January 2014.
^ Peter Gold (2005). Gibraltar: British or Spanish?. Routledge. p. 4. ISBN 978-0-415-34795-2.
"CIA – The World Factbook – 5pain". Cia.gov. Retrieved 30 April 2011.
Kantor, Máttis (24 September 2005). Codex Judaica: Chronological Index of Jewish History, Covering 5,764 Years of Biblical, Talmudic & Post-Talmudic History. Zichron Press. ISBN 9780967037837 – via Google Books.
"The Need for Speed–High Speed Rail in Europe: Do You Speak Spanish? Europe on Track"
Governments around the World: From Democracies to Theocracies: From Democracies to Theocracies
«Orígenes históricos y ambigüedad de la frontera hispano-lusa (La Raya)»
^ "La cuestión de Gibraltar" (in Spanish). Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Spain. January 2008. Archived from the original on 29 May 2009. Retrieved 3 January 2010.
"The Spanish Constitution" (PDF). Agencia Estatal Boletín Oficial del Estado. 1978. Retrieved 10 June 2022.
^ Alandete, David (27 October 2017). "Análisis. Is Catalonia independent?". El País. Archived from the original on 28 October 2017.
^ "Health care in Spain: Beneficiairies". seg-social.es. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017. Retrieved 24 September 2017.
Carr, Raymond, ed. Spain: a history. Oxford University Press, USA, 2000.
Spanish cuisine consists of a great variety of dishes which stem from differences in geography, culture and climate. It is heavily influenced by seafood available from the waters that surround the country, and reflects the country's deep Mediterranean roots. Spain's extensive history with many cultural influences has led to a unique cuisine. In particular, three main divisions are easily identified:
Anti-Jewish Riots in the Crown of Aragon and the Royal Response, 1391–1392. Cambridge University Press. 2016. p. 19. ISBN 978-1-107-16451-2.
Ramallo, Fernando (2018). "Linguistic diversity in Spain".In Ayres-Bennett, Wendy; Carruthers, Janice (eds.). Manual of Romance Sociolinguistics. De Gruyter. p. 462. doi:10.1515/9783110365955-018. ISBN 9783110365955. S2CID 158999790.
Finally, along with the 17 autonomous communities, two autonomous cities are also part of the State of Autonomies and are first-order territorial divisions: Ceuta and Melilla. These are two exclaves located in the northern African coast.
Mediterranean Spain – all such coastal regions, from Catalonia to Andalusia – heavy use of seafood, such as pescaíto frito (fried fish); several cold soups like gazpacho; and many rice-based dishes like paella from Valencia[304] and arròs negre (black rice) from Catalonia.[307]
Spanish is natively spoken by 74%, Catalan by 17%, Galician by 7% and Basque by 2% of the Spanish population.[245]
^ Grantham, H. S.;et al. (2020). "Anthropogenic modification of forests means only 40% of remaining forests have high ecosystem integrity – Supplementary Material". Nature Communications. 11 (1): 5978. Bibcode:2020NatCo..11.5978G. doi:10.1038/s41467-020-19493-3. ISSN 2041-1723. PMC 7723057. PMID 33293507.
After a period of Crown-supported dictatorship from 1923 to 1931, the first elections since 1923, largely understood as a plebiscite on Monarchy, took place: the 12 April 1931 municipal elections. These gave a resounding victory to the Republican-Socialist candidacies in large cities and provincial capitals, with a majority of monarchist councilors in rural areas. The king left the country and the proclamation of the Republic on 14 April ensued, with the formation of a provisional government.
^ "Catalan crisis: Spain PM Rajoy demands direct rule". BBC. 27 October 2017. Archived from the original on 29 October 2017. Retrieved 27 October 2017.
^ "Big in America?". The Economist. Business. Madrid. 8 April 2009. Archived from the original on 12 April 2009. Retrieved 14 May 2009.
"World Urban Areas: Population & Density" (PDF). Demographia. Archived (PDF) from the original on 5 August 2011. Retrieved 10 August 2008.
Articles incorporating a citation from the 1913 Catholic Encyclopedia with Wikisource reference
"14 reactores nucleares movidos por el viento". El País. 9 November 2010. Retrieved 5 June 2011.
"Rabbits, fish and mice, but no rock hyrax". Understanding Animal Research.
Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Spain" . Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
"Spain becomes the first European wind energy producer after overcoming Germany for the first time"
Athanagild, having risen against King Agila, called in the Byzantines and, in payment for the support they gave him, ceded to them the maritime places of the southeast (554 CE). Liuvigild restored the political unity of the peninsula, subduing the Suebians, but the religious divisions of the country, reaching even the royal family, brought on a civil war. St. Hermengild, the king's son, putting himself at the head of the Catholics, was defeated and taken prisoner, and suffered martyrdom for rejecting communion with the Arians. Reccared, son of Liuvigild and brother of St. Hermengild, added religious unity to the political unity achieved by his father, accepting the Catholic faith in the Third Council of Toledo (589 CE). The religious unity established by this council was the basis of that fusion of Goths with Hispano-Romans which produced the Spanish nation. Sisebut and Suintila completed the expulsion of the Byzantines from Spain.[25]
From the mid 13th century, literature and philosophy started to flourish again in the Christian peninsular kingdoms, based on Roman and Gothic traditions. An important philosopher from this time is Ramon Llull. Abraham Cresques was a prominent Jewish cartographer. Roman law and its institutions were the model for the legislators. The king Alfonso X of Castile focused on strengthening this Roman and Gothic past, and also on linking the Iberian Christian kingdoms with the rest of medieval European Christendom. Alfonso worked for being elected emperor of the Holy Roman Empire and published the Siete Partidas code. The Toledo School of Translators is the name that commonly describes the group of scholars who worked together in the city of Toledo during the 12th and 13th centuries, to translate many of the philosophical and scientific works from Classical Arabic, Ancient Greek, and Ancient Hebrew.
^ A History of Portugal and the Portuguese Empire: Volume 1, Portugal: From Beginnings to 1807. Cambridge University Press. 2009. ISBN 978-1-107-71764-0.
^ "La Moncloa. 19/11/2019. Transporte y Vivienda [España/España Hoy 2018-2019/Otras políticas]". www.lamoncloa.gob.es (in Spanish). Retrieved 1 February 2020.
On 23 February 1981, rebel elements among the security forces seized the Cortes in an attempt to impose a military-backed government. King Juan Carlos took personal command of the military and successfully ordered the coup plotters, via national television, to surrender.[97]
^ Azaola, José Miguel de (23 August 1996). "Nacionalidades históricas". El País. Archived from the original on 28 April 2016. Retrieved 9 May 2016.
Labanyi, Jo (2010). Spanish Literature. A Very Short Introduction. Oxford University Press. pp. 18–19. ISBN 978-0-19-920805-0.
Spain's geographic location, popular coastlines, diverse landscapes, historical legacy, vibrant culture, and excellent infrastructure has made the country's international tourist industry among the largest in the world. In the last five decades, international tourism in Spain has grown to become the second largest in the world in terms of spending, worth approximately 40 billion Euros or about 5% of GDP in 2006.[177][178]
^ Fred M. Shelley (2015). Governments around the World: From Democracies to Theocracies: From Democracies to Theocracies. ABC-CLIO. p. 197. ISBN 978-1-4408-3813-2.
^ "Resolution 2231: Question of Gibraltar" (PDF). United Nations. 20 December 1966. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 May 2011. Retrieved 19 February 2010.
^ "La Formación Profesional actual en el sistema educativo – TodoFP│Ministerio de Educación y Formación Profesional" (in Spanish). Retrieved 26 November 2020.
Payne, Stanley G. (1973). "A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 2 Al-Andalus". The Library of Iberian Resources Online. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
From 711 to 718, as part of the expansion of the Umayyad Caliphate, which had conquered North Africa from the Byzantine Empire, nearly all of the Iberian Peninsula was conquered by Muslim armies from across the Strait of Gibraltar, resulting in the collapse of the Visigothic Kingdom. Only a small area in the mountainous north of the peninsula stood out of the territory seized during the initial invasion. The Kingdom of Asturias-León consolidated upon this pocket of territory. Other Christian kingdoms such as Navarre and Aragon in the mountainous north eventually surged upon the consolidation of counties of the Carolingian Marca Hispanica.[38] For several centuries, the fluctuating frontier between the Muslim and Christian controlled areas of the peninsula was along the Ebro and Douro valleys.
The Germanic Suebi and Vandals, together with the Sarmatian Alans entered the peninsula after 409, henceforth weakening the Western Roman Empire's jurisdiction over Hispania. These tribes had crossed the Rhine in early 407 and ravaged Gaul. The Suebi established a kingdom in north-western Iberia whereas the Vandals established themselves in the south of the peninsula by 420 before crossing over to North Africa in 429. As the western empire disintegrated, the social and economic base became greatly simplified: but even in modified form, the successor regimes maintained many of the institutions and laws of the late empire, including Christianity and assimilation to the evolving Roman culture.
In 1962, a group of politicians involved in the opposition to Franco's regime inside the country and in exile met in the congress of the European Movement in Munich, where they made a resolution in favour of democracy.[93][94][95]
By 2016, the automotive industry was generating 8.7 percent of Spain's gross domestic product, employing about nine percent of the manufacturing industry.[174] By 2008 the automobile industry was the 2nd most exported industry[175] while in 2015 about 80% of the total production was for export.[174]
There were two Schools of special flair and talent: the Seville School, to which Juan Martínez Montañés belonged, whose most celebrated works are the Crucifix in the Cathedral of Seville, another in Vergara, and a Saint John; and the Granada School, to which Alonso Cano belonged, to whom an Immaculate Conception and a Virgin of Rosary, are attributed.[citation needed]
Rodríguez. Independence of Spanish America. Cambridge University Press. It met as one body, and its members represented the entire Spanish world
^ Piñol, Pere Ríos, Àngels (27 October 2017). "El Parlament de Cataluña aprueba la resolución para declarar la independencia". El País (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 29 October 2017.
Garcia Cantalapiedra, David, and Ramon Pacheco Pardo, Contemporary Spanish Foreign Policy (Routledge, 2014). Pg. 126
Rinehart, Robert; Seeley, Jo Ann Browning (1998). "A Country Study: Spain – Castile and Aragon". Library of Congress Country Series. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
Antonova, N.V.; Myagkov, G.P; Nikolaeva, O.A (2019). "Genesis problem of philosophical thought in spanish historiography" (PDF). Utopía y Praxis Latinoamericana. Universidad del Zulia. 24 (5): 66–67.
a legislative assembly whose members must be elected by universal suffrage according to the system of proportional representation and in which all areas that integrate the territory are fairly represented;
^ "Spain Is World's Leader in Solar Energy". NPR.org. NPR. 15 July 2010. Archived from the original on 19 September 2010. Retrieved 4 September 2010.
The Byzantines established an occidental province, Spania, in the south, with the intention of reviving Roman rule throughout Iberia. Eventually, however, Hispania was reunited under Visigothic rule. These Visigoths, or Western Goths, after sacking Rome under the leadership of Alaric (410 CE), turned towards the Iberian Peninsula, with Athaulf as their leader, and occupied the northeastern portion. Wallia extended his rule over most of the peninsula, confining the Suebians to Galicia. Theodoric I took part, with the Romans and Franks, in the Battle of the Catalaunian Plains, where Attila was routed. Euric (466 CE), who put an end to the last remnants of Roman power in the peninsula, may be considered the first monarch of Spain, though the Suebians still maintained their independence in Galicia. Euric was also the first king to give written laws to the Visigoths. In the following reigns the Catholic kings of France assumed the role of protectors of the Hispano-Roman Catholics against the Arianism of the Visigoths, and in the wars which ensued Alaric II and Amalaric died.
The Protestant Reformation dragged the kingdom ever more deeply into the mire of religiously charged wars. The result was a country forced into ever-expanding military efforts across Europe and in the Mediterranean.[74] By the middle decades of a war- and plague-ridden 17th-century Europe, the Spanish Habsburgs had enmeshed the country in continent-wide religious-political conflicts. These conflicts drained it of resources and undermined the economy generally. Spain managed to hold on to most of the scattered Habsburg empire, and help the imperial forces of the Holy Roman Empire reverse a large part of the advances made by Protestant forces, but it was finally forced to recognise the separation of Portugal and the United Provinces (Dutch Republic), and eventually suffered some serious military reverses to France in the latter stages of the immensely destructive, Europe-wide Thirty Years' War.[75] In the latter half of the 17th century, Spain went into a gradual decline, during which it surrendered several small territories to France and England; however, it maintained and enlarged its vast overseas empire, which remained intact until the beginning of the 19th century.
Spain's Black Market Economy Is Worth 20% of Its GDP: One million Spanish people have jobs in the underground economy
The current provincial division structure is based—with minor changes—on the 1833 territorial division by Javier de Burgos, and in all, the Spanish territory is divided into 50 provinces. The communities of Asturias, Cantabria, La Rioja, the Balearic Islands, Madrid, Murcia and Navarre are the only communities that comprise a single province, which is coextensive with the community itself. In these cases, the administrative institutions of the province are replaced by the governmental institutions of the community.
^ Anti-Jewish Riots in the Crown of Aragon and the Royal Response, 1391–1392. Cambridge University Press. 2016. p. 19. ISBN 978-1-107-16451-2.
UK Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (1999). "Partnership for Progress and Prosperity: Britain and the Overseas Territories. Appendix 1: Profiles for Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands & Gibraltar" (PDF). Partnership for Progress and Prosperity: Britain and the Overseas Territories. Archived from the original (PDF) on 13 December 2005. Retrieved 19 December 2005.
The fauna presents a wide diversity that is due in large part to the geographical position of the Iberian peninsula between the Atlantic and the Mediterranean and between Africa and Eurasia, and the great diversity of habitats and biotopes, the result of a considerable variety of climates and well differentiated regions.
^ "These Are the Economies With the Most (and Least) Efficient Health Care". Bloomberg.com. 19 September 2018. Retrieved 19 April 2020.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
^ Spain 2015/2016 Archived 8 August 2016 at the Wayback Machine Amnesty International. Retrieved 22 June 2016.
"OECD report for 2006" (PDF). OECD. Archived (PDF) from the original on 19 August 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ "Population Figures". Instituto Nacional de Estadística (National Statistics Institute). Archived from the original on 24 May 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
"A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 14 Spanish Society and Economics in the Imperial Age"
A study made by the Union of Islamic Communities of Spain demonstrated that there were more than 2,100,000 inhabitants of Muslim background living in Spain as of 2019[update], accounting for 4–5% of the total population of Spain. The vast majority was composed of immigrants and descendants originating from the Maghreb (especially Morocco) and other African countries. More than 879,000 (42%) of them had Spanish nationality.[267]
^ Scheen, Rolf (1996). "Viking raids on the spanish peninsula". Militaria. Revista de Cultura Militar (8): 67–73.
"World Economic Outlook Database, October 2022". IMF.org. International Monetary Fund.
^ Thais Guerrero Padrón; María Isabel Ribes Moreno (20 November 2020). Social Security Law in Spain. Wolters Kluwer. p. 165. ISBN 978-94-035-2611-9.
^ "Global Acceptance of Homosexuality". Pew Research Center. 4 June 2013. Archived from the original on 10 November 2014.
The constitutional history of Spain dates back to the constitution of 1812. In June 1976, Spain's new King Juan Carlos dismissed Carlos Arias Navarro and appointed the reformer Adolfo Suárez as Prime Minister.[123][124] The resulting general election in 1977 convened the Constituent Cortes (the Spanish Parliament, in its capacity as a constitutional assembly) for the purpose of drafting and approving the constitution of 1978.[125] After a national referendum on 6 December 1978, 88% of voters approved of the new constitution – a culmination of the Spanish transition to democracy.
Roman Catholicism, which has a long history in Spain, remains the dominant religion. Although it no longer has official status by law, in all public schools in Spain students have to choose either a religion or ethics class. Catholicism is the religion most commonly taught, although the teaching of Islam,[258] Judaism,[259] and evangelical Christianity[260] is also recognised in law. According to a 2020 study by the Spanish Centre for Sociological Research, about 61% of Spaniards self-identify as Catholics, 3% other faiths, and about 35% identify with no religion.[261] Most Spaniards do not participate regularly in religious services. A 2019 study shows that of the Spaniards who identify themselves as religious, 62% hardly ever or never go to church, 16% go to church some times a year, 7% some time per month and 13% every Sunday or multiple times per week.[262] Recent polls and surveys suggest that around 30% of the Spanish population is irreligious.[262][263][264]
"Anuario estadístico de España 2008. 1ª parte: entorno físico y medio ambiente"
"Diagnóstico social de la comunidad gitana en España" (PDF). Msc.es. Archived (PDF) from the original on 27 December 2016. Retrieved 21 May 2016.
^ "Bachillerato│Ministerio de Educación y Formación Profesional". Retrieved 26 November 2020.
In 2005 the Economist Intelligence Unit's quality of life survey placed Spain among the top 10 in the world.[169] In 2013 the same survey (now called the "Where-to-be-born index"), ranked Spain 28th in the world.[170]
Borraz, Marta (18 March 2021). "Luz verde definitiva: la ley de eutanasia ya es una realidad en España tras superar su último trámite en el Congreso". ElDiario.es (in Spanish). Retrieved 19 March 2021.
Yuste, Javier (13 December 2019). "Viaje por la cara B del cine español". El Cultural – via El Español.
"Contribución al estudio de las invasiones mauritanas de la Bética en el siglo II"
In a broader definition encompassing the period from 1868 or 1874 to 1936, the so-called Silver Age of Spanish Culture ensued.[282][283]
^ "Financial crisis reveals vulnerability of Spain's immigrants – Feature". The Earth Times. 18 November 2009.
"Global Innovation Index". INSEAD Knowledge. 28 October 2013. Archived from the original on 2 September 2021. Retrieved 2 September 2021.
EU27 Member States granted citizenship to 696 000 persons in 2008
^ "The lottery of life". The Economist. 21 November 2012. Archived from the original on 20 July 2014.
Azaola, José Miguel de (23 August 1996). "Nacionalidades históricas". El País. Archived from the original on 28 April 2016. Retrieved 9 May 2016.
Gies, David T. (2004). The Cambridge History of Spanish Literature. Cambridge University Press. pp. 73–74. ISBN 0-521-80618-6.
"King Orders army to crush coup". The Guardian. 23 February 1981. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
^ Pfanner, Eric (11 July 2002). "Economy reaps benefits of entry to the 'club': Spain's euro bonanza". International Herald Tribune. Archived from the original on 1 May 2011. Retrieved 9 August 2008. See also: "Spain's economy / Plain sailing no longer". The Economist. 3 May 2007. Archived from the original on 13 June 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ "The Black Death". Channel 4. Archived from the original on 9 July 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
^ Phillips, William D.; Phillips, Carla Rahn (2010). A Concise History of Spain. Cambridge University Press. p. 175. ISBN 9780521845137.
Although the period around the turn of the century was one of increasing prosperity, the 20th century brought little social peace; Spain played a minor part in the scramble for Africa, with the colonisation of Western Sahara, Spanish Morocco and Spanish Guinea. It remained neutral during World War I. The heavy losses suffered by the colonial troops in conflicts in northern Morocco against Riffians forces brought discredit to the government and undermined the monarchy.
Industrialisation, the development of railways and incipient capitalism developed in several areas of the country, particularly in Barcelona, as well as Labour movement and socialist and anarchist ideas. The 1888 Barcelona Universal Exposition and the 1870 Barcelona Labour Congress are good examples of this. In 1879, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party was founded. A trade union linked to this party, Unión General de Trabajadores, was founded in 1888. In the anarcho-sindicalist trend of the labour movement in Spain, Confederación Nacional del Trabajo was founded in 1910 and Federación Anarquista Ibérica in 1927.
Typical Aurignacian items were found in Cantabria (Morín, El Pendo, El Castillo), the Basque Country (Santimamiñe) and Catalonia. The radiocarbon datations give the following dates: 32,425 and 29,515 BP.[failed verification][
^ González Subías, José Luis (2007). "La extensión del Romanticismo en España". Cuadernos de Ilustración y Romanticismo: Revista del Grupo de Estudios del siglo XVIII. Editorial UCA (15): 226; 228–229. ISSN 2173-0687.
The Expulsion of the Jews: Five Hundred Years of Exodus
^ "Human Development Report 2007/2008" (PDF). Hdr.undp.org. p. 330. Archived from the original (PDF) on 29 April 2011. Retrieved 18 January 2014.
^ "Spain – Intangible Cultural Heritage". UNESCO Culture Sector. Archived from the original on 14 September 2014. Retrieved 14 September 2014.
Basketball, tennis, cycling, handball, futsal, motorcycling and, lately, Formula One also can boast of Spanish champions. Today, Spain is a major world sports powerhouse, especially since the 1992 Summer Olympics and Paralympics that were hosted in Barcelona, which stimulated a great deal of interest in sports in the country. The tourism industry has led to an improvement in sports infrastructure, especially for water sports, golf and skiing. In their respective regions, the traditional games of Basque pelota and Valencian pilota both are popular.[citation needed]
Native Spaniards make up 88% of the total population of Spain. After the birth rate plunged in the 1980s and Spain's population growth rate dropped, the population again trended upward initially upon the return of many Spaniards who had emigrated to other European countries during the 1970s, and more recently, fuelled by large numbers of immigrants who make up 12% of the population. The immigrants originate mainly in Latin America (39%), North Africa (16%), Eastern Europe (15%), and Sub-Saharan Africa (4%).[210]
^ Islamic and Christian Spain in the Early Middle Ages. Chapter 5: Ethnic Relations, Thomas F. Glick
"The Smooth Transition: Spain's 1978 Constitution and the Nationalities Question"
"Avance del Padrón Municipal a 1 de enero de 2006. Datos provisionales" (PDF). Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 July 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008. and "Spain: Immigrants Welcome". Business Week. Archived from the original on 6 October 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008. and "Immigrants Fuel Europe's Civilization Clash". MSNBC. Archived from the original on 13 May 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008. and "Spanish youth clash with immigrant gangs". International Herald Tribune. Archived from the original on 3 June 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
"Prize Laureates". leekuanyewworldcityprize.com.sg. Archived from the original on 28 February 2012.
The centre-right government of former prime minister José María Aznar worked successfully to gain admission to the group of countries launching the euro in 1999. Unemployment stood at 17.1% in June 2017,[160] below Spain's early 1990s unemployment rate of at over 20%. The youth unemployment rate (35% in March 2018) is extremely high compared to EU standards.[161] Perennial weak points of Spain's economy include a large informal economy,[162][163][164] and an education system which OECD reports place among the poorest for developed countries, along with the United States.[165]
Historically, Sephardic Jews and Moriscos are the main minority groups originating in Spain and with a contribution to Spanish culture.[226] The Spanish government is offering Spanish nationality to Sephardic Jews.[227]
In the early 2000s, the proportion of Spain's foreign born population increased rapidly during its economic boom but then declined due to the financial crisis.[102] In 2005, the Spanish government legalised same sex marriage, becoming the third country worldwide to do so.[103] Decentralisation was supported with much resistance of Constitutional Court and conservative opposition, so did gender politics like quotas or the law against gender violence. Government talks with ETA happened, and the group announced its permanent cease of violence in 2010.[104]
^ H. Patrick Glenn (2007). Legal Traditions of the World. Oxford University Press. pp. 218–219. Dhimma provides rights of residence in return for taxes.
^ "Spanish Inquisition left genetic legacy in Iberia". New Scientist. 4 December 2008. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014. Retrieved 18 January 2014.
^ Julve, Rafa (9 March 2016). "Señores, se acabó la mili". El Periódico.
"Analysis of 8 years of Gender Violence Law in Spain | Gender violence and justice"
Villena, Miguel Ángel (9 June 2012). "El contubernio que preparó la democracia". EL PAÍS. Archived from the original on 5 April 2013.
^ "Spain has developed Europe's largest high-speed rail network | Olive Press Newspaper". Theolivepress.es. 17 November 2010. Archived from the original on 10 December 2011. Retrieved 1 November 2011.
On the west, Spain is bordered by Portugal; on the south, it is bordered by Gibraltar (a British overseas territory) and Morocco, through its exclaves in North Africa (Ceuta and Melilla, and the peninsula of de Vélez de la Gomera). On the northeast, along the Pyrenees mountain range, it is bordered by France and Andorra. Along the Pyrenees in Girona, a small exclave town called Llívia is surrounded by France.
Hispania may derive from the poetic use of the term Hesperia, reflecting the Greek perception of Italy as a "western land" or "land of the setting sun" (Hesperiacode: ell promoted to code: el , Ἑσπερίαcode: ell promoted to code: elin Greek) and Spain, being still further west, as Hesperia ultimacode: ell promoted to code: el .[27]
^ De la LGE a la LOMCE: Así son las siete leyes educativas españolas de la democracia Archived 12 February 2015 at the Wayback Machine. teinteresa.es
"Tratado de Utretch – Gibraltar (Spanish)". mgar.net. Archived from the original on 10 May 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
"World Factbook EUROPE : SPAIN", The World Factbook, 12 July 2018
The arrival of the gitanos (Spanish for "gypsies"), a Romani people, began in the 16th century; estimates of the Spanish Roma population range from 750,000 to over one million.[221][222][223][224][225] There are also the mercheros (also called quinquis), a formerly nomadic minority group. Their origin is unclear.
^ Casado Velarde, Manuel (2011). "Spain, a plurilingual state: Spanish and other official languages".In Stickel, Gerhard (ed.). National, regional and minority languages in Europe. Frankfurt: Peter Lang. p. 129. ISBN 978-3-631-60365-9.
Deputy prime ministers (designated by the Prime Minister): Currently Nadia Calviño Santamaría (1st), Yolanda Díaz Pérez (2nd), Teresa Ribera Rodríguez (3rd).
"El jefe del Estado Mayor del Ejército de Tierra y 11 tenientes generales aspiran a JEMAD". La Vanguardia. 6 November 2016.
2 Considered European for cultural, political and historical reasons but is geographically in Western Asia.
"These Are the Economies With the Most (and Least) Efficient Health Care". Bloomberg.com. 19 September 2018. Retrieved 19 April 2020.
"Spain legalises gay marriage". The Guardian. 30 June 2005. Retrieved 19 March 2020.
"Acuerdo entre el Reino de España y Nueva Zelanda sobre participación en determinadas elecciones de los nacionales de cada país residentes en el territorio del otro, hecho en Wellington el 23 de junio de 2009"
A series of Viking incursions raided the coasts of the Iberian Peninsula in the 9th and 10th centuries.[43] The first recorded Viking raid on Iberia took place in 844; it ended in failure with many Vikings killed by the Galicians' ballistas; and seventy of the Vikings' longships captured on the beach and burned by the troops of King Ramiro I of Asturias.[44]
The Renaissance scholar Antonio de Nebrija proposed that the word Hispania evolved from the Iberian word Hispalis, meaning "city of the western world".
^ Marcolongo, Andrea (2017). La lengua de los dioses: Nueve razones para amar el griego (in Greek). Penguin Random House Grupo Editorial España. ISBN 978-84-306-1887-3.
Gates, David (2001). The Spanish Ulcer: A History of the Peninsular War. Da Capo Press. ISBN 978-0-306-81083-1.
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 07:38 (UTC).
"World Map of the Köppen-Geiger climate classification updated – (see p.3)" (PDF). Retrieved 30 April 2011.
Sanz, Juan Carlos (22 January 2016). "Spain at last welcomes back the Sephardim". El País. Tel Aviv. Retrieved 26 May 2018.
The 13th century also witnessed the Crown of Aragon, centred in Spain's north east, expand its reach across islands in the Mediterranean, to Sicily and Naples.[48] Around this time the universities of Palencia (1212/1263) and Salamanca (1218/1254) were established. The Black Death of 1348 and 1349 devastated Spain.[49]
Spain has a number of descendants of populations from former colonies, especially Latin America and North Africa. Smaller numbers of immigrants from several Sub-Saharan countries have recently been settling in Spain. There are also sizeable numbers of Asian immigrants, most of whom are of Middle Eastern, South Asian and Chinese origin. The single largest group of immigrants are European; represented by large numbers of Romanians, Britons, Germans, French and others.[220]
The term 'nationality' (Spanish: nacionalidad) was chosen carefully in order to avoid the more politically charged term 'nation'.
The Prime Minister, deputy prime ministers and the rest of ministers convene at the Council of Ministers.
^ a b Naimark, Norman (2016). Genocide: A World History. Oxford University Press. p. 35. ISBN 978-0-19-976526-3.
"Spain, main reference for world's Hispanic heritage". ABC.es. Madrid. 3 July 2014. Retrieved 8 June 2016.
In 2008, Spain granted citizenship to 84,170 persons, mostly to people from Ecuador, Colombia and Morocco.[211] Many foreign residents in Spain also come from other Western and Central European countries. These are mostly British, French, German, Dutch, and Norwegian. They reside primarily on the Mediterranean coast and the Balearic islands, where many are retired or remote workers.
Anatomically modern humans first arrived in the Iberian Peninsula around 42,000 years ago.[12] The ancient Iberian and Celtic tribes, along with other local pre-Roman peoples, dwelled the territory maintaining contacts with foreign Mediterranean cultures. The Roman conquest and colonization of the peninsula (Hispania) ensued, bringing the Romanization of the population. Receding of Western Roman imperial authority ushered in the migration into Iberia of tribes from Central and Northern Europe with the Visigoths as the dominant power in the peninsula by the fifth century. In the early eighth century, most of the peninsula was conquered by the Umayyad Caliphate, and during early Islamic rule, Al-Andalus became a dominant peninsular power centered in Córdoba. Several Christian kingdoms emerged in Northern Iberia, chief among them León, Castile, Aragon, Portugal, and Navarre made an intermittent southward military expansion, known as Reconquista, repelling the Islamic rule in Iberia, which culminated with the Christian seizure of the Emirate of Granada in 1492. Jews and Muslims were forced to choose between conversion to Catholicism or expulsion, and eventually the converts were expelled through different royal decrees.
Other notable Andalusian Baroque sculptors were Pedro de Mena, Pedro Roldán and his daughter Luisa Roldán, Juan de Mesa and Pedro Duque Cornejo. In the 20th century the most important Spanish sculptors were Julio González, Pablo Gargallo, Eduardo Chillida, and Pablo Serrano.
Anthon, Charles (1850). A system of ancient and mediæval geography for the use of schools and colleges. New York: Harper & Brothers. p. 14.
Abad, Francisco (2007). "La 'Edad de Plata' (1868-1936) y las generaciones de la Edad de Plata : cultura y filología" (PDF). Epos. Revista de Filología (23): 244–245.
"Population in Europe in 2005" (PDF). Eurostat. Archived from the original (PDF) on 19 August 2008. Retrieved 13 August 2008.
Rinehart, Robert; Seeley, Jo Ann Browning (1998). "A Country Study: Spain. Chapter 1 – Hispania". Library of Congress Country Series. Archived from the original on 22 September 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
Spain (Spanish: España, [esˈpaɲa] (listen)), or the Kingdom of Spain (Reino de España),[f] is a country primarily located in southwestern Europe with parts of territory in the Atlantic Ocean and across the Mediterranean Sea.[11][g] The largest part of Spain is situated on the Iberian Peninsula; its territory also includes the Canary Islands in the Atlantic Ocean, the Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean Sea, and the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla in Africa. The country's mainland is bordered to the south by Gibraltar; to the south and east by the Mediterranean Sea; to the north by France, Andorra and the Bay of Biscay; and to the west by Portugal and the Atlantic Ocean. With an area of 505,990 km2 (195,360 sq mi), Spain is the second-largest country in the European Union (EU) and, with a population exceeding 47.4 million, the fourth-most populous EU member state. Spain's capital and largest city is Madrid; other major urban areas include Barcelona, Valencia, Seville, Zaragoza, Málaga, Murcia, Palma de Mallorca, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, and Bilbao.
The Spanish Constitution of 1978 "protect all Spaniards and all the peoples of Spain in the exercise of human rights, their cultures and traditions, languages and institutions".[147]
^ United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World Urbanization Prospects (2009 revision) Archived 25 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine, (United Nations, 2010), Table A.12. Data for 2007.
VAN ZANDEN, JAN LUITEN; BURINGH, ELTJO; BOSKER, MAARTEN (29 July 2011). "The rise and decline of European parliaments, 1188-17891". The Economic History Review. 65 (3): 835–861. doi:10.1111/j.1468-0289.2011.00612.x. ISSN 0013-0117. S2CID 154956049.
^ AFP (6 May 2018). "Spain's Bilbao fights to lead European wind power sector". The Local (in Spanish). Retrieved 6 July 2018.
^ "Gini coefficient of equivalised disposable income – EU-SILC survey". ec.europa.eu. Eurostat. Retrieved 7 August 2022.
^ The Spanish Empire: A Historical Encyclopedia [2 volumes]: A Historical Encyclopedia. ABC-CLIO. 2016. p. 221. ISBN 978-1-61069-422-3.
Spain's fast-living king turns 70 Archived 6 January 2010 at the Wayback Machine BBC News Friday, 4 January 2008 Extracted 18 June 2009
"A good bet?". The Economist. Business. Madrid. 30 April 2009. Archived from the original on 4 May 2009. Retrieved 14 May 2009.
Castile and Leon is the Spanish leader in rural tourism linked to its environmental and architectural heritage.
Another dispute surrounds the Savage Islands, which Spain acknowledges to be part of Portugal. However, Spain claims that they are rocks rather than islands, and therefore Spain does not accept the Portuguese Exclusive Economic Zone (200 nautical miles) generated by the islands, while acknowledging the Selvagens as possessing territorial waters (12 nautical miles). On 5 July 2013, Spain sent a letter to the UN expressing these views.[139][140]
^ a b c Payne, Stanley G. (1973). "A History of Spain and Portugal; Ch. 2 Al-Andalus". The Library of Iberian Resources Online. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
^ "Summit". worldpridemadrid2017.com (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 12 September 2017. Retrieved 12 September 2017.
"Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Población (españoles/extranjeros) por País de Nacimiento, sexo y año". ine.es. Instituto Nacional de Estadística.
Casey, James (1999). Early Modern Spain: A Social History. Routledge. p. 83. ISBN 9780415138130.
^ "OECD report for 2006" (PDF). OECD. Archived (PDF) from the original on 19 August 2008. Retrieved 9 August 2008.
There are 11 major islands in Spain, all of them having their own governing bodies (Cabildos insulares in the Canaries, Consells insulars in Baleares). These islands are specifically mentioned by the Spanish Constitution, when fixing its Senatorial representation (Ibiza and Formentera are grouped, as they together form the Pityusic islands, part of the Balearic archipelago). These islands include Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Lanzarote, Fuerteventura, La Palma, La Gomera and El Hierro in the Canarian archipelago and Mallorca, Ibiza, Menorca and Formentera in the Balearic archipelago.
"Total Fertility Rate around the world over the last centuries"
Higher education institutions (administered at the regional, NUTS2 level) perform about a 60% of the basic research in the country.[203] Likewise, the contribution of the private sector to R&D expenditures is much lower than in other EU and OECD countries.[204]
^ OECD (2006). OECD Territorial Reviews Competitive Cities in the Global Economy. Table 1.1. OECD Publishing. ISBN 978-92-64-02708-4.
"Spain has developed Europe's largest high-speed rail network | Olive Press Newspaper". Theolivepress.es. 17 November 2010. Archived from the original on 10 December 2011. Retrieved 1 November 2011.
3Geography											Toggle Geography subsection																					3.1Islands																											3.2Mountains and rivers																											3.3Climate																											3.4Fauna and flora
The lion and crown denote a royal regiment, conferred by King George III in 1802. The globe was chosen by King George IV to reflect their successes around the world. The laurels honour their gallantry at the Capture of Belle Île in 1761.
Plain brass cap badge of RM other ranks. This version is also worn by Royal Marines Cadets of the rank of Colour Sergeant or below.
^ OC SBS (November–December 2003). "The New SBS Cap Badge". The Globe & Laurel – The journal of the Royal Marines. Richmond, Surrey: Simpson Drewett & Co Ltd. ISSN 0017-1204.
2Navies											Toggle Navies subsection																					2.1United Kingdom																								2.1.1Royal Navy																											2.1.2Royal Marines																														2.2United States																								2.2.1Navy and Coast Guard																											2.2.2Marine Corps
Scottish glengarry: Between the left eye and the left ear
Cap badges in the Royal Navy differ between ranks but have some common features: junior rates (Able Seaman to Leading Seaman) do not wear cap badges, wearing the peakless sailor's cap in number one dress. When wearing a beret, junior ratings will wear a fouled anchor within a gold ring as a beret badge.
Cap badge of a Royal Navy warrant officer on a peaked cap.
Soldiers of the Gloucestershire Regiment and subsequently the Royal Gloucestershire, Berkshire and Wiltshire Regiment wore a cap badge on both the front and the rear of their headdress, a tradition maintained by soldiers in The Rifles when in service dress. The back badge is unique in the British Army and was awarded to the 28th Regiment of Foot for their actions at the Battle of Alexandria in 1801.
The British Armed Forces utilise a variety of metal and cloth cap badges on their headdress, generally on caps and berets. They are also worn on Sikh turbans.
Badges of rank and other badges of the Royal Marines Band Service
"Col Richard Pickup – Obituary". The Daily Telegraph. 11 May 2009. Archived from the original on 25 May 2010. Retrieved 9 April 2010.
Different badge designs are also worn on the headgear of police community support officers.
Scottish tam o'shanter: Between the left eye and the left ear
For U.S. Air Force service caps, a large, silver eagle device is worn on the service caps. For enlisted men, a smaller version of the officer's insignia is worn, but enclosed in a ring. The use of the same device is because the U.S. Air Force was once part of the U.S. Army.
Petty Officers wear a silver fouled anchor within a gold circle, with St Edward's Crown above the ring as their cap badge. That of Chief Petty Officers is the same, but with a small laurel wreath around the gold ring. That of warrant officers (both Class I and Class II) has a larger wreath around the anchor, but omits the ring.
Brass and silver cap badges of Royal Marines junior officers.
Regimental cap badges are usually cast as one single piece but in a number of cases they may be cast in different pieces.For instance, the badge of the now amalgamated, The Highlanders (Seaforth, Gordons and Camerons) was cast in two separate pieces: the Queen's Crown and the thistle forming one piece, and the stag's head and scroll with regimental motto forming a second piece (see the first picture above).
^ Badges of rank and other badges of the Royal Marines Band Service
Side cap: Between the left eye and the left ear
The Royal Corps of Signals also have a two-part badge. The top being a brass crown and the bottom consisting of a silver flying body of Mercury (the winged messenger of the gods –'Jimmy') above a brass world and the motto certa cito ('swift and sure').
In the Royal Marines, cap badges are worn on peaked caps and berets. Those of commissioned officers below the rank of colonel are split in two, the crown and lion atop, but separated from, the globe and laurels. They are brass and silver. Those of other ranks are of the same design but not split in two. They are plain brass.
In the United Kingdom, cadets of the Community Cadet Forces, Combined Cadet Force and Volunteer Cadet Corps generally wear cap badges of the armed forces they are affiliated to. Cadets of the Air Training Corps wear a badge with a unique design.
Cap badge of the Royal 22nd Regiment of the Canadian Army.
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police, as well as provincial and municipal police forces, utilize forage caps and metal cap badges.
Royal Marines Badges of Rank and Insignia. BR 3 Chapter 40. Royal Navy.
^ "Col Richard Pickup – Obituary". The Daily Telegraph. 11 May 2009. Archived from the original on 25 May 2010. Retrieved 9 April 2010.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Queen's Royal Lancers Gift Shop". Archived from the original on 2008-09-05. Retrieved 2009-01-03. QRL Motto (Cap badge of The Queen's Royal Lancers).
Plastic cap badges were introduced during the Second World War, when metals became strategic materials.Nowadays many cap badges in the British Army are made of a material called "stay-brite" (anodised aluminium, anodising is an electro-plating process resulting in lightweight shiny badge), this is used because it is cheap, flexible and does not require as much maintenance as brass badges.
1.1British armed forces																								1.1.1British Army																								1.1.1.1Cap badge variations																											1.1.1.2Wearing conventions																														1.1.2Royal Air Force
For a period leading up to Remembrance Day artificial poppies are worn by many people in the United Kingdom and Canada to commemorate those killed in war. On forage caps the paper petals are fitted under the left hand chin strap button.
Cap badge of United Nations peacekeeping forces on a blue beret.
The cap badge is positioned differently depending on the form of headdress:
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 February 2015. Retrieved 6 June 2015.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
In the United States Army, a distinctive unit insignia (DUI) is worn on the flash of a beret. For service caps, a gilt eagle device is worn. This is the Great Seal of the United States. In the late nineteenth century, this device on a blue circle was listed as the equivalent of the roundel that appeared on headgear of many European armies.
Beret of the Multinational Force and Observers with a metal and enamel badge.
Cap badges are a modern form of heraldry and their design generally incorporates highly symbolic devices.Some badges that contain images of lions or other cats are sometimes informally referred to as cat badges.
Feather bonnet: Slightly off the left ear towards the left eye
There are exceptions such as the Welsh Guards, where all ranks wear a cloth cap badge. Officers wearing a more elaborate version to that of soldiers, made using gold thread and has a more three-dimensional design. The only exception to this is recruits in training who have to wear the brass (or more often "stay-brite") leek, often referred to as the "NAAFI fork", until they have passed out of training and reached their battalion will they receive their cloth leek[citation needed].All ranks of the Special Air Service wear an embroidered cap badge and all ranks of The Rifles and Royal Regiment of Fusiliers wear the same metal badge.
Cap badges used by navies (and merchant mariners) around the world tend to follow the pattern in use by the Royal Navy: an anchor, or occasionally a cockade, surrounded by golden leaf-shaped embroidery, and often topped by a crown or another symbol. They may be worn on peaked caps or berets. For petty officers the leaves may be absent or replaced by a ring of golden cable.
"Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 February 2015. Retrieved 6 June 2015.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
Cap badge of a flag officer on a Royal Canadian Navy peaked cap
A cap badge, also known as head badge or hat badge, is a badge worn on uniform headgear and distinguishes the wearer's nationality and/or organisation. The wearing of cap badges is a convention commonly found among military and police forces, as well as uniformed civilian groups such as the Boy Scouts, civil defence organisations, ambulance services (e.g. the St. John Ambulance Brigade), customs services, fire services etc.
The laurel wreath around that of commissioned officers is larger still.
^ Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Uniforms § Regimental Badges" . Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 27 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 586.
Where the majority of British police forces have silver-coloured cap badges, those of the City of London Police are brass. They are in the form of each force's crest and include the name of that force.
Senior non-commissioned officers such as sergeants, colour sergeants and warrant officers: a more elaborate design compared with those worn by other ranks but usually not as elaborate as those worn by officers.
In the Royal Marines Band Service, the Portsmouth band and CTCRM band have different cap badges from the rest of the Corps.[4][5] The SBS also has its own cap badge.[6][7]
Home Service Helmet or Wolseley Helmet: above the centre between the wearer's eyebrows.
Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Uniforms § Regimental Badges" . Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 27 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 586.
Blue wedge cap of the Royal Canadian Air Force, with a cap badge.
A regiment or battalion may maintain variations of the same cap badge for different ranks.These variations are usually in the badges' material, size and stylization.Variations in cap badges are normally made for:
Some regiments maintain a blackened or subdued version of their cap badges as shiny brass cap badges may attract the enemy's attention on the battlefield. However, since the practice of British soldiers operating in theatre with regimental headdress (i.e. peaked cap, beret) has all but died out, the wearing of these has become much less common in recent years.
Fusilier cap or Busby: Slightly off the left ear towards the left eye
Blackened or subdued versions of both variants, those of officers and other ranks, are worn on berets, with combat uniforms.
1Instances in military forces											Toggle Instances in military forces subsection																					1.1British armed forces																								1.1.1British Army																								1.1.1.1Cap badge variations																											1.1.1.2Wearing conventions																														1.1.2Royal Air Force																														1.2Canadian Armed Forces																											1.3United States																								1.3.1U.S. Army																											1.3.2U.S. Air Force
^ Royal Marines Badges of Rank and Insignia. BR 3 Chapter 40. Royal Navy.
Cloth version of the cap badge of RAF other ranks. This version is worn on caps.
Officers: usually three-dimensional in design with more expensive materials such as silver, enamel and gilt.Most officers' beret badges are embroidered rather than metal or "stay-brite".
Peaked cap with badge of a chief petty officer 1st class of the RCN.
The main exceptions to the Royal Navy pattern are the United States Navy and the United States Coast Guard, which once followed this pattern, but changed after the American Civil War to their current designs. The Navy has crossed anchors behind the eagle and shield for commissioned officers, while the Coast Guard uses a single large anchor held in the eagle's claws on its commissioned officers' caps. Chief petty officers and above in both the Navy and the Coast Guard have a larger version of their collar insignia as their cap badge for the combination cover and a miniature version worn on the garrison cap; petty officer first class and below in both services wear a full-sized rank insignia on the garrison cap. Junior enlisted costguardsmen wear a combination cap badge featuring a gold disc in front of two silver crossed anchors, while junior enlisted sailors do not wear the combination cap. Midshipmen at the US Naval Academy and Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (NROTC) wear a single, upright fouled anchor on combination and garrison caps, while cadets at the US Coast Guard Academy wear a single fouled anchor surmounted by a five-pointed star, with one point facing down.
Cap badges in the Royal Air Force differ in design between those of commissioned officers and other ranks. In addition to caps and berets, they are also worn on forage caps.
Cap badge of a junior rating, worn on a beret.
Cap badge of an RCAF general officer, on a beret.
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
For officers, a large eagle device is worn. For enlisted men, a small version of the officer's insignia centered on a disk is worn on the front. Warrant officers wear a gold eagle device centered on the cap.For garrison caps, generally the rank insignia is worn, but recent regulations call for the wear of the DUI.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Queen's Royal Lancers Gift Shop". Archived from the original on 2008-09-05. Retrieved 2009-01-03. QRL Motto (Cap badge of The Queen's Royal Lancers).
Badges are worn on berets of international military and peacekeeping forces.
Cap badges are worn by a variety of other organisations:
In the British Army (as well as other Commonwealth armies) each regiment and corps has its own cap badge.The cap badge of the Queen's Royal Lancers is called a motto by those within the regiment,[1] that of the Royal Horse Artillery is known as a cypher and that of the Coldstream Guards, Scots Guards and Irish Guards is known as a cap star.That of the Grenadier Guards is known as the grenade fired proper.
Jungle hat (as worn by the Brigade of Gurkhas in Number 2 dress): Centre front or between left eye and left ear.
The Canadian Armed Forces utilize a variety of metal and cloth cap badges on their headdress, and many follow British traditions for additions such as cloth behind and blackened metal badges for rifle regiments.Distinct cap badges identify members' personnel branch or, in the case of infantry and armoured soldiers, regimental affiliation. Some units further differentiate non-commissioned members from officers by cap badge material (for example, artillery officers wear gold-wire embroidered cloth instead of brass, Lord Strathcona's Horse officers wear silver rather than brass).
This page was last edited on 10 March 2023, at 20:12 (UTC).
Additional items that reflect a regiment's historical accomplishments, such as backing cloth and hackles, may be worn behind the cap badge.In Scottish regiments, for instance, it is a tradition for soldiers to wear their cap badges on a small square piece of their regimental tartans. Officer cadets may wear a small white backing behind their badges.Members of arms such as the Adjutant General's Corps and Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineersserving on attachment to other units often wear that regiment's beret or headdress but with their own Corps cap badge.
Service dress cap: above the centre point between the wearer's eyebrows
United States marines wear the Eagle, Globe, and Anchor as their cap device: gilt and silver for officers and gold for enlisted on blue dress uniforms, and subdued for all ranks on service and utility uniforms. Marine-option midshipmen at the US Naval Academy wear the same cap device as other midshipmen, while NROTC midshipmen wear the enlisted-dress Eagle, Globe, and Anchor on all their uniforms instead of an anchor.
OC SBS (November–December 2003). "The New SBS Cap Badge". The Globe & Laurel – The journal of the Royal Marines. Richmond, Surrey: Simpson Drewett & Co Ltd. ISSN 0017-1204.
The concept of regimental badges appears to have originated with the British Army. The Encyclopædia Britannica's 1911 Edition notes that although branch badges for infantry, cavalry and so on were common to other armies of the time, only the British Army wore distinctive regimental devices.[2]
^ "The Princess of Wales' Royal Regiment (Queen's and Royal Hampshires) 1992 - Today". queensroyalsurreys.org.uk. Retrieved 13 January 2020.
"The Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment". Ministry of Defence. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
The Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment (or PWRR, also known as 'The Tigers') is the senior English line infantry regiment of the British Army, second in the line infantry order of precedence to the Royal Regiment of Scotland and part of the Queen's Division.
"No. 63562". The London Gazette (Supplement). 21 December 2021. p. 23205.
"Pincess of Wales's Royal Regiment". Ministry of Defence. Retrieved 23 August 2022.
The Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment was formed on 9 September 1992 by the amalgamation of the Queen's Regiment and the Royal Hampshire Regiment and holds the earliest battle honour in the British Army (Tangier 1662–80).[4] Through its ancestry via the Queen's Royal Regiment (West Surrey) (2nd Regiment of Foot), the PWRR is the most senior English line infantry regiment. The current regiment was named in honour of Diana, Princess of Wales.[5]
77th (East Middlesex) (Duke of Cambridge's Own) Regiment of Foot
4th Battalion — Army Reserve serving with 7th Light Mechanised Brigade Combat Team, paired with 1st Battalion Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment when in UK[22][23]
France - Le 35e Régiment d'Infanterie - Bond of Friendship
Regimental Colour: Tangier 1662–80, Namur 1695, Gibraltar 1704–5, Blenheim, Ramillies, Oudenarde, Malplaquet, Dettingen, Minden, Louisburg, Guadeloupe 1759, Quebec 1759, Belleisle, Tournay, Barrosa, Martinique 1762, Seringapatam, Maida, Corunna, Talavera, Albuhera, Almaraz, Vittoria, Peninsula, Punniar, Moodkee, Sobraon, Inkerman, Sevastopol, Lucknow, Taku Forts, Pekin 1860, New Zealand, Afghanistan 1879–80, Nile 1884–85, Burma 1885–87, Relief of Ladysmith, Paardeberg, South Africa 1899–1902, Korea 1950-51
^ "Regiments to change bases in major Army restructure". BelfastTelegraph.co.uk. 15 November 2016. Retrieved 16 December 2016.
^ "No. 63562". The London Gazette (Supplement). 21 December 2021. p. 23205.
^ "No. 57587". The London Gazette (Supplement). 18 March 2005. pp. 3369–3370.
Mills, Dan (2007). Sniper One: The Blistering True Story of a British Battle Group Under Siege. Penguin. ISBN 978-0-7181-4994-9.
Military units and formations of the United Kingdom in the War in Afghanistan (2001–2021)
Bunyan, Nigel (22 March 2007). "Big day for 5ft Army medic who won MC". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 16 October 2007. Retrieved 22 March 2007.
1st Battalion — Light Infantry based in Woolwich, London on a two-year rotation[20]
^ "Information on the Army 2020 refine exercise" (PDF). Gov.uk. 10 March 2017. Retrieved 20 June 2017.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Regimental Mottos and Nicknames". Army Tigers. 30 January 2019. Retrieved 4 October 2020.
Message by the Colonel of the Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment regarding Remembrance Day for 2021 and upcoming Regimental Changes. Regimental Headquarters, Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment.London, United Kingdom.Retrieved 16 November 2021.
"No. 57587". The London Gazette (Supplement). 18 March 2005. pp. 3369–3370.
Canada - 1st Battalion, Royal New Brunswick Regiment (Carleton and York)
Pakistan - 12th, 14th, 15th, and 17th Battalions, The Punjab Regiment
The regiment recruits its soldiers from London, Kent, Surrey, Sussex, Hampshire, the Isle of Wight, and the Channel Islands.[19]
Medals and awards awarded to the regiment's 1st Battalion for their service during operations in Iraq in 2004 included a Victoria Cross, two Distinguished Service Orders, two Conspicuous Gallantry Crosses, one Member of the Order of the British Empire for gallantry, ten Military Crosses, and seventeen Mentions in Despatches.[8]
"No. 52834". The London Gazette (Supplement). 13 February 1992. p. 2582.
The Queen's & Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment Regimental Museum is in Dover Castle.[24]
This page was last edited on 8 March 2023, at 17:55 (UTC).
"Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment proudly holds 57 Victoria Crosses - and they're moving to Rutland"
^ "The two Colours of the PWRR | Army Tigers". www.armytigers.com. 30 January 2019.
Pages containing London Gazette template with parameter supp set to y
The Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment (Queen's and Royal Hampshires)
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Regimental Mottos and Nicknames". Army Tigers. 30 January 2019. Retrieved 4 October 2020.
"Meeting The Princess of Wales' Royal Regiment in Cyprus". Sussex Life. 15 December 2014. Retrieved 8 January 2015.
"Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment sees Afghan Police progress". Ministry of Defence. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
^ a b The old 2nd Battalion, PWRR (now 2nd Battalion, Ranger Regiment) is affiliated with the regiment, maintaining the traditions and lineage, but does not fall under the structure of the PWRR anymore.
^ "Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment sees Afghan Police progress". Ministry of Defence. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
^ "British soldier killed in Basra shooting". The Telegraph. 12 February 2009. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
"The two Colours of the PWRR | Army Tigers". www.armytigers.com. 30 January 2019.
^ "3 PWRR". Ministry of Defence. Retrieved 30 April 2016.
^ "Transforming the British Army: An Update" (PDF). Ministry of Defence. p. 9. Retrieved 30 April 2016.
^ "Queen's & PWRR Regiment Museum". 1st Battalion the Queen’s Regiment. Retrieved 5 June 2018.
The Naval Crown superscribed "1st June 1794" – from the Queen's Royal Regiment (West Surrey)
The old 2nd Battalion, PWRR (now 2nd Battalion, Ranger Regiment) is affiliated with the regiment, maintaining the traditions and lineage, but does not fall under the structure of the PWRR anymore.
The London Gazette, Page 3300-3301 (1 July 1881). "Childers Reform". No. 24992. Government of the United Kingdom. Retrieved 27 October 2016.
^ a b "No. 52834". The London Gazette (Supplement). 13 February 1992. p. 2582.
British Army Locations from 1945 British Army Locations from 1945
"No. 52834". The London Gazette (Supplement). 13 February 1992. p. 2581.
^ "No. 52834". The London Gazette (Supplement). 13 February 1992. p. 2581.
Canada - 49th (Sault Ste Marie) Field Regiment, Royal Canadian Artillery
"British soldier killed in Basra shooting". The Telegraph. 12 February 2009. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
The regiment's 2nd Battalion were based in Shackleton Barracks, Northern Ireland, the last resident battalion deployed in this role under Operation Banner. After two years at Alexander Barracks in Dhekelia in Cyprus, they moved to Woolwich Garrison, London, to take up a public duties role in August 2010, a role they performed for three years.[14] 2nd Battalion deployed to Cyprus again in 2014.[15] It remains one of the infantry units rotating between the UK and British Forces Cyprus.[16] In August 2017, the battalion returned to the UK, based at Kendrew Barracks in Cottesmore, where they reconfigured two companies into a Light Mechanised Infantry force.[17]
The regiment's 2nd battalion re-subordinated to the Ranger Regiment on 1 December 2021.[18]
"The Princess of Wales' Royal Regiment (Queen's and Royal Hampshires) 1992 - Today". queensroyalsurreys.org.uk. Retrieved 13 January 2020.
^ Message by the Colonel of the Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment regarding Remembrance Day for 2021 and upcoming Regimental Changes. Regimental Headquarters, Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment.London, United Kingdom.Retrieved 16 November 2021.
The 1st Battalion served a seven-month tour of Iraq in 2004 with a second tour following in 2006, and finally a tour in 2009 where the battalion was split between Afghanistan and Iraq (last combat operation in Iraq).Many of the operations carried out by the battalion during the first tour were named after stations on the London Underground.[8] Elements of 1 PWRR helped train the Iraqi National Army and oversaw the withdrawal of UK Forces from Basra.[9] 1st Battalion was deployed to Afghanistan again in August 2011 to form the nucleus of the Police Mentoring Advisory Group (PMAG) with individual companies detached to other battlegroups around Helmand province.[10] The 1st Battalion under Army 2020 will move from Paderborn, Germany to be stationed at Bulford Camp.[11][12][13]
The Regimental Colour is particularly distinctive. The Colour is yellow and there is a unique combination of five badges displayed; the cap badge, the Naval Crown, the Tiger, the Sphinx and the cypher of Catherine of Braganza all linked to Regimental history:[28]
"Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment proudly holds 57 Victoria Crosses - and they're moving to Rutland". Leicester Mercury. 25 July 2017. Retrieved 19 October 2017.
The Sphinx superscribed "Egypt 1801" – from the Queen's Royal Regiment (West Surrey) & Queen's Own Royal West Kent Regiment
"Queen's & PWRR Regiment Museum". 1st Battalion the Queen’s Regiment. Retrieved 5 June 2018.
3rd Battalion — Army Reserve Light Infantry serving with 20th Armoured Brigade, paired with 1st Battalion Royal Anglian Regiment[21]
Whilst attached to the 1st Battalion, Michelle Norris of the Royal Army Medical Corps became the first woman to be awarded the Military Cross following her actions on 11 June 2006.[26]
"Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment". www.army.mod.uk. Retrieved 20 December 2018.
"Transforming the British Army: An Update" (PDF). Ministry of Defence. p. 9. Retrieved 30 April 2016.
Scott, Mike (2017). The Tigers at War: 25 Years in Front Line Modern Conflict. Helion and Company (Warwick). ISBN 9781912174249.
Royal Navy - 40 Commando Royal Marines - Bond of friendship
^ "Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment retraces its history". BBC. 28 April 2012. Retrieved 30 April 2016.
^ a b The London Gazette, Page 3300-3301 (1 July 1881). "Childers Reform". No. 24992. Government of the United Kingdom. Retrieved 27 October 2016.
"Transforming the British Army: An Update" (PDF). Ministry of Defence. p. 7. Retrieved 30 April 2016.
^ "2 PWRR soldiers step down from ceremonial duties". Ministry of Defence. 11 February 2013. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
^ "Regular Army basing" (PDF). Ministry of Defence. Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 August 2016. Retrieved 30 April 2016.
The forebear Regiments of the Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment were awarded over 550 Battle Honours including "Tangier 1662-80", the oldest on any Colour,[27] the following are emblazoned on the colours:
Riley, Jonathon; Goulden, Alasdair. (2022). The Longest Stag: The Queen's Regiment in Northern Ireland 1967 - 1992. The Queen's Regimental association, 2022. ISBN 978-1-3999-2591-4. (see Chapter 13 The Tigers In Northern Ireland)
The regimental headquarters (RHQ) is at the Tower of London, whilst the regiment itself comprises three battalions:[a]
^ "Meeting The Princess of Wales' Royal Regiment in Cyprus". Sussex Life. 15 December 2014. Retrieved 8 January 2015.
"Information on the Army 2020 refine exercise" (PDF). Gov.uk. 10 March 2017. Retrieved 20 June 2017.
The cypher of Queen Catherine "1661", (wife of Charles II), intertwined/reversed letter "C" at the base of the laurel wreath from The Queen's Royal Regiment (West Surrey), in memory of the raising of the Regiment in 1661 when sent to garrison Tangier, part of Catherine of Braganza's dowry
^ a b Mills, Dan (2007). Sniper One: The Blistering True Story of a British Battle Group Under Siege. Penguin. ISBN 978-0-7181-4994-9.
"Regiments to change bases in major Army restructure". BelfastTelegraph.co.uk. 15 November 2016. Retrieved 16 December 2016.
Upon its creation, the Princess of Wales[6] and the Queen of Denmark[7] were Allied Colonels-in-Chief of the PWRR. When the Princess divorced the Prince of Wales, she resigned as Colonel-in-chief and the Queen of Denmark has remained its Colonel-in-Chief since.[7]
The Royal Tiger superscribed "India" – from the Royal Hampshire Regiment
^ Bunyan, Nigel (22 March 2007). "Big day for 5ft Army medic who won MC". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 16 October 2007. Retrieved 22 March 2007.
Queen's Colour:Mons, Retreat from Mons, Aisne 1914, Ypres 1914 '15 '17 '18, Hill 60, Festubert 1915, Somme 1916 '18, Albert 1916 '18, Arras 1917 '18, Cambrai 1917 '18, Hindenburg Line, Italy 1917–18, Doiran 1917–18, Landing at Helles, Gaza, Jerusalem, Palestine 1917–18, Kut al Amara 1915 '17, Mesopotamia 1915–18, North West Frontier India 1915 1916–17, Dunkirk 1940, Normandy Landing, Caen, Rhine, North-West Europe 1944-45, Abyssinia 1941, El Alamein, Tebourba Gap, Hunt's Gap, Longstop Hill, North Africa 1940–43, Sicily 1943, Salerno, Anzio, Cassino, Gothic Line, Italy 1943–45, Malta 1940–42, Malaya 1941–42, Hong Kong, Defence of Kohima, Burma 1943–45
^ "Transforming the British Army: An Update" (PDF). Ministry of Defence. p. 7. Retrieved 30 April 2016.
^ "Basing plan" (PDF). p. 3. Retrieved 30 April 2016.
"The Princess of Wales' Royal Regiment (Queen's and Royal Hampshires) 1992 - Today"
Private Johnson Beharry of the 1st Battalion, PWRR was awarded the Victoria Cross for his actions during his unit's deployment to Amarah, near Basra.[25]
^ "Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment". www.army.mod.uk. Retrieved 20 December 2018.
"Regular Army basing" (PDF). Ministry of Defence. Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 August 2016. Retrieved 30 April 2016.
Sniper One: The Blistering True Story of a British Battle Group Under Siege
"Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment retraces its history". BBC. 28 April 2012. Retrieved 30 April 2016.
"2 PWRR soldiers step down from ceremonial duties". Ministry of Defence. 11 February 2013. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
^ "The Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment". Ministry of Defence. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
^ "Pincess of Wales's Royal Regiment". Ministry of Defence. Retrieved 23 August 2022.
^ "Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment proudly holds 57 Victoria Crosses - and they're moving to Rutland". Leicester Mercury. 25 July 2017. Retrieved 19 October 2017.
^ a b "T-80U". Deagel. Archived from the original on 2008-08-20. Retrieved 2008-08-19.
"ČŃĻŪŅĄĶČß ŅĄĶŹĄ Ņ-90". www.sinopa.ee. Archived from the original on 2015-09-24. Retrieved 2014-12-05.
Why South Korea Hates (and Loves) Its Russian Tanks Archived 2018-04-16 at the Wayback Machine. The National Interest. 15 April 2018.
When South Korea first acquired the T-80 in the late 1990s, it was the most advanced tank on the Korean Peninsula, superior to the domestic K1 88-Tank in having a larger 125 mm gun to the K1's 105 mm. However, as time went on, the K1 was upgraded into the K1A1 and the more advanced K2 Black Panther entered service, while the T-80 changed little since its delivery due to the foreign nature of the design and lack of will to add domestic upgrades. While the South Korean tanks use domestically manufactured ammunition, T-80 shells and most parts must be imported, increasing maintenance costs as the cost of ordering replacement parts kept rising steadily. Although the turbine engine is lighter with better acceleration, it uses more fuel and is less reliable. The interior has been criticized as cramped and gunnery was underperforming via less advanced sights and slower reload speed.[50]
Under the Soviet Union, the T-80 was never exported; it was exported only after the collapse of the Soviet Union, when the T-80 was henceforth produced in Russia.[citation needed]
«Новогодняя карусель» Archived 2018-11-28 at the Wayback Machine (Второе издание 09.12.2011).
"Russian arms sales to Yemen grow". Yemen Times. Archived from the original on 2011-09-27.
T-80UD Bereza (1987): Ukrainian diesel version with 1,000 hp 6TD engine and remote-controlled antiaircraft machine gun.
T-80BV (1985): T-80BV ( model 1985) is a T-80B upgraded with Kontakt-1 ERA on turret and hull. Smoke discharges are re-positioned to make a room on the turret for ERA. There is a new gun 2A46M-1 with 9K112 Kobra system capable of firing improved 9M112M Kobra ATGM through gun barrel.
Object 478BK (1995): Further Ukrainian development of T-80UD with 1,200 hp diesel and new welded turret.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Kolekcja Czołgi Świata, p. 13.
"ЦАМТО / Новости / Минобороны России и Ростех подписали на «Армии-2020» соглашения на сумму более 300 млрд. рублей"
^ a b c d e Pike, John. "T-80UD". Global Security. Archived from the original on 2008-08-01.
^ The Military Balance 2022. International Institute for Strategic Studies. 14 February 2021. pp. 192–95. ISBN 978-0-36746639-8 – via Routledge.
^ "The military will receive a hundred new T-80 tanks the other day - presidential adviser". Unian. 18 June 2015. Retrieved 2023-01-27.
"The military will receive a hundred new T-80 tanks the other day - presidential adviser"
In August 1991, communists and allied military commanders tried to overthrow Mikhail Gorbachev and regain control over the unstable Soviet Union. T-80UD tanks of the 4th Guards Kantemirovskaya Tank Division drove onto the streets of Moscow but the Soviet coup attempt failed when the tank crews refused to attack the audience or the parliament.[32][33]
The Russian Army had 3,044 T-80s and variants in active service and 1,456 in reserve as of 2008[update].[30][31][34] There are at least 460 T-80UD in service with 2nd Guards Tamanskaya Motor Rifle Division and 4th Guards Kantemirowsk Motor Rifle Division.[35] A T-80BV is on display in Kubinka Tank Museum and a T-80U is on display at an open-air museum in Saratov. The T-80Us have recently been seen at arms expos in Russia such as VTTV.
^ "Republic of Bulgaria Military Statistics (As of November 14, 2013)". Archived from the original on 2016-03-03. Retrieved 2016-03-19 – via MediaFire.
^ "ЦАМТО / Новости / Минобороны России и Ростех подписали на «Армии-2020» соглашения на сумму более 300 млрд. рублей". armstrade.org.
"Attack on Europe: Documenting Russian Equipment Losses During the 2022 Russian Invasion of Ukraine"
T-80UE: Export version similar to T-80UK version, with Shtora-1 APS and other improvements, no orders received.
Newdick, Thomas (24 November 2021). "Russian T-80 Tank With Improvised Anti-Drone Armor Reportedly Appears In Crimea". The Drive. Archived from the original on 2022-02-24. Retrieved 2022-03-11.
^ "ЦАМТО / Главное / На форуме «Армия-2022» подписаны 7 и вручены 29 госконтрактов с 26 предприятиями ОПК".
The T-80 is similar in layout to the T-64; the driver's compartment is on the centre line at the front, the two-man turret is in the centre with the gunner on the left and the commander on the right, and the engine is rear mounted.[3] Overall, its shape is also very similar to the T-64.
Pike, John. "Republic of Korea Army Equipment". Global Security. Archived from the original on 2014-10-09. Retrieved 2014-11-15.
The Ukrainian T-84 main battle tank is based on the T-80UD. Ukraine was only able to afford a negligible number of T-84s for its own use, but did market the tank for export. The T-84 Oplot (first delivered in 2001) introduced turret-bustle ammunition storage; and to offer more sales to international market, the T-84-120 Yatagan has been offered for export featuring a very large turret bustle and NATO-compatible 120 mm gun.[29]
Initially, the T-80 was confused with the Soviet T-72 by some Western analysts. They are the products of different design bureaus; the T-80 is from the SKB-2 design bureau of the Kirov Factory (LKZ) in Leningrad while the T-72 is from the Uralvagonzavod factory in Nizhny Tagil. They are similar in superficial appearance, but the T-80 is based on the earlier T-64, while incorporating features from the T-72, which was a complementary design.[23] The T-64 in turn was an earlier high-technology main battle tank, designed by the Morozov Design Bureau (KMDB) in Kharkiv to replace the T-54, T-55 and T-62 MBTs, used before in the Soviet Union.
"ЦАМТО / "Омсктрансмаш" отправил в войска первую в этом году партию танков Т-80БВМ". Arms trade. 29 July 2021.
Mikhail Zakharchuk, 'Uroki Chechenskogo krizisa' (Lessons of the Chechen crisis), Armeyskiy sbornik, April 1995, 46.
Russian tank production faltered in the years before and after the breakup of the Soviet Union. At the two remaining Russian tank plants, state orders all but ceased. Omsk, then the only Russian producer of the T-80, received orders for just five T-80Us in 1992. Around the same time, the Russian Ministry of Defense decided it would commit to eventually producing one tank type only. Though both Nizhni-Tagil's T-90 and Omsk's T-80U had their merits, the T-80 was notorious for its high fuel use and poor engine reliability. Also, Russian T-80BVs suffered appalling losses in their first combat use during the First Chechen War. T-90s, which were not deployed to Chechnya, were spared media criticism despite the similarly poor performance of the T-72 (the T-90's not-so-different ancestor) in the same conflict. In January 1996, Colonel General Aleksandr Galkin, chief of Main Armour Directorate of the Russian Ministry of Defense, said the Russian Armed Forces would phase out T-80 production in favor of the T-90 (Galkin reversed his position later that year, claiming the T-80U was a superior tank). Production of the T-80 at Omsk persisted until 2001, mainly for the export market.[6]
Prospects Of Application Of Two-Stroke Turbo-Piston Opposed-Piston Diesel Engine Of TD Family In Armored Vehicles (PDF) (Report). Kharkov Engine Design Bureau. Archived from the original on 2020-08-08.{{cite report}}:CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)
The T-80U(M) of the 1990s introduced the TO1-PO2 Agava gunner's thermal imaging sight and 9M119M Refleks-M guided missile, and later an improved 2A46M-4 version of the 125 mm gun and 1G46M gunner's sight was used.
Pike, John. "Belarus". Global Security. Archived from the original on 2017-02-16. Retrieved 2014-11-15.
^ "Modern Explosive Reactive Armours". Fofanov.armor.kiev.ua. Archived from the original on 2013-09-27. Retrieved 2013-09-22.
^ "Танк Т-80 модернизируют "Реликтом" и "Сосной-У"". 14 July 2016. Archived from the original on 2016-11-15. Retrieved 2016-11-14.
"Cold War Armor After Chechnya: An Assessment of the Russian T-80"
"Военные досрочно получили партию "реактивных" танков Т-80". военное.рф (in Russian). 30 September 2022. Retrieved 2023-02-07.
Ukrainian exports of the T-80UD have been moderately successful. In 1993 and 1995, Ukraine demonstrated the tank to Pakistan, which was looking for a new main battle tank. The tank was tested in Pakistan and in August 1996 Pakistan decided to buy 320 T-80UD tanks from Ukraine for $650 million in two variants: a standard Object 478B and export Object 478BE.[51][52][53][54] The tanks were all supposed to be delivered in 1997. After the first batch of 15 vehicles had been shipped in February 1997, Russia protested that it held the rights to the tank and that Ukraine couldn't export it.[51][52] Nearly 70% of T-80UD components were produced outside of Ukraine (mainly in Russia). Under the guise of keeping good relations with India, one of its most important military customers, Russia withheld 2A46-2 125 mm smoothbore guns, cast turrets and other technology, which forced Ukraine to make its tank industry independent.[54] It developed domestic components, including a welded turret, which was in use on the new Ukrainian T-84. Ukraine was able to ship 20 more T-80UD tanks to Pakistan between February and May 1997.[51][52] These 35 tanks were from Ukrainian Army stocks of 52 T-80UDs; they were built in the Malyshev plant several years before but were not delivered to their original destination. Their abilities were below the standard agreed by both Ukraine and Pakistan.[52] The contract was completed by shipping another 285 Ukrainian T-80UD MBTs between 1997 and early 2002. These had the welded turret and other manufacturing features of the T-84.[51][52]
Turkey – T-80U took part in the tender for Turkey, but lost against the Leopard 2A4.[51]
Zaloga, Steven J. (2018). "The Chechen War". T-90 Standard Tank. Osprey Publishing. pp. 16–17. ISBN 978-1-4728-1822-5.
^ Zaloga 2009, p. 24: Author Mentions that Russian sources claim Kontakt-5 and the new turret armour provided an unprecedented amount of protection for the T-80U, equivalent to 780mm against APFSDS and 1,320mm against HEAT in the turret front..
^ "Russian arms sales to Yemen grow". Yemen Times. Archived from the original on 2011-09-27.
Background: History of the tank, Tank classification, Tanks in the Cold War
^ "ČŃĻŪŅĄĶČß ŅĄĶŹĄ Ņ-90". www.sinopa.ee. Archived from the original on 2015-09-24. Retrieved 2014-12-05.
^ Axe, David. "Ukrainian Paratroopers Prefer Their Speedy T-80BV Tanks". Forbes.com. Retrieved 2023-01-27.
^ Dejong, Bruce (January 1995). "T-80U Main Battle Tank". Red Thrust Star. US Army. Archived from the original on 2008-02-04.
In 1995, the number of T-80 tanks increased to around 5,000 but was reduced in 1998 to 3,500.
Au-yeong, S.K. (10 August 2015). "The T-80 Is Russia's Most Overrated Tank". War is boring. Archived from the original on 2016-09-07.
^ Pike, John. "Ukraine". Global Security. Archived from the original on 2017-07-07. Retrieved 2014-11-15.
Axe, David. "Ukrainian Paratroopers Prefer Their Speedy T-80BV Tanks". Forbes.com. Retrieved 2023-01-27.
The main gun is fed by the Korzina automatic loader. This holds up to 28 rounds of two-part ammunition in a carousel located under the turret floor.[60] Further ammunition is stored in the turret. The ammunition comprises the projectile (APFSDS, HEAT, or HE-Frag), and the propellant charge, or the two-part missile.[60] The autoloader is an effective, reliable, combat tested system that has been in use since the mid-1960s. The propellant charge is held inside a semi-combustible cartridge case made of a highly flammable material, which is consumed in the breech during firing, except for a small metal baseplate.[60]
Pike, John. "T-80UD". Global Security. Archived from the original on 2008-08-01.
^ "Конфликт в Йемене стал третьей войной для "летающего танка" Т-80БВ". RG. 20 December 2017. Archived from the original on 2017-12-28. Retrieved 2017-12-28.
Zaloga, 2009 & 28-43. sfn error: no target: CITEREFZaloga200928-43 (help)
Yemen: Bought 31 T-80Us from Russia in 2000.[86] Bought 66 T-80BVs from Belarus.[87]
^ Zaloga, 2009 & 28-43. sfn error: no target: CITEREFZaloga200928-43 (help)
Nash, Mark (21 May 2020). "FV200 Turbine Test Vehicle". Tank Encyclopedia. Retrieved 2023-01-15.
Ukraine: 345 T-80UD's were in service in 1995, 273 in 2000, and 271 in 2005.[81] The type was eventually retired but thenafter Russia's invasion of Ukraine in 2014, plans were made to refurbish up to 100 for Ukraine's Airborne forces.[82] By 2022, most Ukrainian airborne brigades had independent companies of T-80BV tanks attached.[83] During the Russian invasion of 2022, photos confirm Ukraine has lost at least 39 T-80BVs captured or destroyed. However, by late January 2023 photos show Ukraine had captured at least 81 T-80BVs, 33 T-80BVMs, 43 T-80Us, 7 T-80UE-1s, and two command tanks from Russian forces.[84]
Command tanks with more radio equipment have K added to their designation for komandirskiy ("command"), for example, T-80BK is the command version of the T-80B. Versions with reactive armour have V added, for vzryvnoy ("explosive"), for example T-80BV. Lower cost versions with no missile ability have a figure 1 added, as T-80B1.
"Russia's upgraded T-80BV tank to feature capability of firing depleted uranium shells". Archived from the original on 2018-12-22. Retrieved 2018-12-22.
The tracks are slightly wider and longer than on the T-64 giving lower ground pressure.[59]
T-80UM (1995):Russian version, with new Buran thermal imaging sight in place of the Luna IR.[65]
T-80B and T-80BV were never used in Afghanistan in the 1980s to keep the tank's characteristics a secret, but they were first used during the First Chechen War. This first real combat experience for T-80 was unsuccessful, as the tanks were used to capture cities, a task for which they were not very well suited due to the low depression and elevation of the 2A46-M1 gun on all Russian MBTs.
"The military will receive a hundred new T-80 tanks the other day - presidential adviser". Unian. 18 June 2015. Retrieved 2023-01-27.
^ Grau, Lester W. (January 1997). "Russian-Manufactured Armored Vehicle Vulnerability in Urban Combat: The Chechnya Experience". Red Thrust Star. US Army. Archived from the original on 2009-07-09.
"Russia's upgraded T-80BV tank to feature capability of firing depleted uranium shells"
Zaloga 2009, p. 24: Author Mentions that Russian sources claim Kontakt-5 and the new turret armour provided an unprecedented amount of protection for the T-80U, equivalent to 780mm against APFSDS and 1,320mm against HEAT in the turret front..
The Military Balance 2022. International Institute for Strategic Studies. 14 February 2021. pp. 192–95. ISBN 978-0-36746639-8 – via Routledge.
T-80B – Hull 440–450 mm vs APFSDS 500–575 mm vs HEAT, Turret 500 mm vs APFSDS 650 mm vs HEAT[7]
^ Why South Korea Hates (and Loves) Its Russian Tanks Archived 2018-04-16 at the Wayback Machine. The National Interest. 15 April 2018.
^ a b "Nowa Technika Wojskowa". New Military Technique (in Polish). No. 7/09. ISSN 1230-1655.[full citation needed]
^ "Основной танк Т-80 - Вооружение России и других стран Мира". worldweapon.ru. Archived from the original on 2014-12-08. Retrieved 2014-12-05.
"Fprado.com". www.fprado.com. Archived from the original on 2006-07-09. Retrieved 2006-06-26.
"Attack on Europe: Documenting Russian Equipment Losses During the 2022 Russian Invasion of Ukraine".
"Attack On Europe: Documenting Russian Equipment Losses During The 2022 Russian Invasion Of Ukraine"
The glacis is of laminate armour and the turret is armoured steel, with cavities in the turret cheeks containing either a ceramic filling or non-explosive reactive armour elements.[3]
"What to know about the role Javelin antitank missiles could play in Ukraine's fight against Russia"
South Korea: 33 T-80Us were delivered to South Korea from 1995 to 1997, as a part of payment for the debt incurred during the Soviet era. Two T-80UKs were acquired from Russia in 2005. Unlike the other downgraded export version, South Korea received the batch built for then Soviet's domestic use.[51][56][79] Moscow was seeking the possibility of their return in 2016.[80]
^ "T-80UD". Deagel. Archived from the original on 2016-03-03. Retrieved 2008-08-20.
"Танк Т-80 модернизируют "Реликтом" и "Сосной-У"". 14 July 2016. Archived from the original on 2016-11-15. Retrieved 2016-11-14.
The project to build the first Soviet turbine powered tank began in 1949. Its designer was A. Ch. Starostienko, who worked at the Leningrad Kirov Plant (LKZ). The tank was never built because available turbine engines were of very poor quality. In 1955, two prototype 1,000 hp (746 kW) turbine engines were built at the same plant under the guidance of G. A. Ogloblin. Two years later a team led by Josef Kotin constructed two prototypes of the Object 278 tank. Both were hybrids of the IS-7 and the T-10 heavy tanks, powered by the GTD-1 turbine engine, weighing 53.5 tonnes and armed with an M65 130 mm tank gun. The turbine engine allowed the tank to reach a maximum speed of 57.3 km/h (35.6 mph), however with only 1,950 liters of fuel on board, their range was limited to only 300 km (190 mi). The two tanks were considered experimental vehicles and work on them eventually ceased. In 1963, the Morozov Design Bureau designed the T-64 and T-64T tanks. They used GTD-3TL turbine engines which generated 700 hp (522 kW). The tank was tested until 1965. At the same time, at Uralvagonzavod, a design team under the guidance of L. N. Kartsev created the Object 167T tank. In 1964, in its report to First Secretary Nikita Khrushchev, the team reported that the design was not worth pursuing partly due to its high fuel use.[15][16]
"ЦАМТО / Новости / Минобороны России и Ростех подписали на «Армии-2020» соглашения на сумму более 300 млрд. рублей". armstrade.org.
T-80BV also introduced a new 5 part armor array on the hull unlike the old 3 part T-80B. T-80B's were upgraded with applique armor 30mm high hardness steel plate to increase it's protection to the same level.
"Основной боевой танк Т-80". dokwar.ru. Archived from the original on 2014-12-06. Retrieved 2014-12-05.
Bulgaria: 4 T-80s were bought during the late 1980s for evaluation but were rejected due to having no relative improvement over the T-72. The indigenous upgrade of Bulgarian T-72M to T-72M2 were a result of the technical information learned from evaluating the T-80s.[92]
"Reporting country: Ukraine". United Nations Register of Conventional Arms. 24 May 2004. Archived from the original on 2011-07-28.
Mitzer, Stijn; Oliemans, Joost (21 November 2022). "Attack On Europe: Documenting Russian Equipment Losses During The 2022 Russian Invasion Of Ukraine". Orxy Spioenkop. Retrieved 2023-01-27.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Last Battle T-80BV in Yemen". soldat. Retrieved 2022-05-06.
Cyprus is the first foreign country to officially obtain T-80 tanks. Russia sold 27 T-80U and 14 T-80UK for $174 million to Cyprus in 1996. The tanks arrived in two batches. The first shipment consisted of 27 T-80U MBTs arriving in 1996, while the second batch of 14 T-80UK MBTs arrived in 1997. This significantly improved the abilities of Cypriot army armoured forces; their most potent tank until then was the AMX-30B2. New tanks gave the Cypriot National Guard the edge in a possible confrontation with the Turkish Army in Northern Cyprus.[51][55][56] In October 2009 Cyprus ordered another batch of 41 used T-80Us and T-80UKs from Russia for €115 million. Deliveries were completed in the first half of 2011.[57]
T-80UE-1: Not to be confused with the attempted export version T-80UE, this version is made by mating T-80UD turret with T-80BV hull (with some improvements to bring the hull to T-80U level, as Kontakt-5 ERA for example).
South Korea was given 33 T-80U and 2 T-80UK tanks to pay Russian debts incurred during the days of the Soviet Union. The tanks came in three batches; the first consisted of six T-80Us in 1996, followed by 27 T-80Us in 1997, and finally two T-80UKs in 2005.
^ Gatopoulos, Alex. "The weapons being sent to Ukraine and why they may not be enough". www.aljazeera.com.
From a distance, the T-64, T-72 and T-80 look alike. Despite the similarities, the T-80 is 90 cm longer than the T-64, and the T-80 and T-72 are mechanically very different. The T-72 is mechanically simpler, easier to manufacture, and easier to service in the field. As such, the T-72 was intended to be a tank mass-produced to equip the bulk of the Soviet motor rifle units, and for sale to export partners and Eastern-bloc satellite states.
"Основной танк Т-80 - Вооружение России и других стран Мира". worldweapon.ru. Archived from the original on 2014-12-08. Retrieved 2014-12-05.
^ "Военные досрочно получили партию "реактивных" танков Т-80". военное.рф (in Russian). 30 September 2022. Retrieved 2023-02-07.
^ Soviet Tank Programs (PDF) (Report). Archived (PDF) from the original on 2015-09-24. Retrieved 2014-11-12.
6Operators											Toggle Operators subsection																					6.1Current operators																											6.2Disputed operators																											6.3Former operators																											6.4Failed bids
T-80 (1976): Initial model, with 1,000 hp gas turbine engine, coincidence rangefinder, and no missile capability. This model does not have fittings for explosive reactive armour. The turret is from the T-64A, and thus retains the use of the old coincidence rangefinder. Characteristics of this type are the V shaped water deflector on the front glacis, coincidence rangefinder in front of the commander's cupola, and Luna searchlight mounted in the same position as a T-64. Around 250 were produced, as the tank's armour was essentially obsolete when introduced.[citation needed] Turret vs APFSDS – 380 mm, hull vs APFSDS – 500 mm (without reactive armour).[62] This was, in effect, a pre-production model. It reportedly was fitted with an early version of the Shtora APS.
"Russia to buy back T-80 tanks and BMP-3 IFVs from South Korea". Echelon Defense. 6 September 2016. Archived from the original on 2016-10-18. Retrieved 2016-10-16.
Zaloga, Steven (2009). T-80 Standard Tank. Great Britain: Osprey Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84603-244-8.
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 15:42 (UTC).
T-80U (1987): Further development with a better turret, Kontakt-5 explosive reactive armour, Shtora-1 APS, improved gunnner's sight. There is the same gun 2A46M-1 as on T-80BV but with a new 9K120 Svir system which allows firing 9M119 Svir ATGM. In 1990, a new 1,250 hp engine was installed.Overall protection with Kontakt-5 against APFSDS or HEAT is 780/1,320 mm RHAe.[64] 9K119M with antitank guided missile 9M119M installed since 1990.
Virtual tour inside the T-80BV Archived 2015-10-17 at the Wayback Machine
^ «Новогодняя карусель» Archived 2018-11-28 at the Wayback Machine (Второе издание 09.12.2011).
Baryatinskiy, Mikhail (2007). Main Battle Tank T-80. Hersham, UK: Ian Allan. ISBN 978-0-7110-3238-5.
^ a b c "SIPRI Arms Transfers Database". Archived from the original on 2009-08-05. Retrieved 2014-11-15.
^ Prospects Of Application Of Two-Stroke Turbo-Piston Opposed-Piston Diesel Engine Of TD Family In Armored Vehicles (PDF) (Report). Kharkov Engine Design Bureau. Archived from the original on 2020-08-08.{{cite report}}:CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)
^ Nash, Mark (21 May 2020). "FV200 Turbine Test Vehicle". Tank Encyclopedia. Retrieved 2023-01-15.
Grau, Lester W. (January 1997). "Russian-Manufactured Armored Vehicle Vulnerability in Urban Combat: The Chechnya Experience". Red Thrust Star. US Army. Archived from the original on 2009-07-09.
"Russian Tanks Massing Near Ukraine Sport Mods Against Drones, Javelin Missiles"
"SIPRI Arms Transfers Database". Archived from the original on 2009-08-05. Retrieved 2014-11-15.
People's Republic of China – Some pieces of information claim that Russia has signed a contract with the People's Republic of China to sell 200 T-80U tanks in 1993. But only 50 T-80Us were purchased for unknown reasons.[88][75][89][90] These T-80Us are only used for testing and evaluation purposes as reference samples for the development of their domestic tanks.[91] However, there is no official information that can prove this situation from China.[88][75][89]
Malaysia – T-80UD took part in the tender for the Malaysian Army, but lost against the PT-91M Pendekar.
"T-80U". Deagel. Archived from the original on 2008-08-20. Retrieved 2008-08-19.
"Republic of Bulgaria Military Statistics (As of November 14, 2013)"
Dejong, Bruce (January 1995). "T-80U Main Battle Tank". Red Thrust Star. US Army. Archived from the original on 2008-02-04.
"Умер создатель "летающего танка"". Lenta. 6 February 2008. Archived from the original on 2008-02-29. Retrieved 2008-02-28.
T-80BVD (2002): KMDB's upgrade standard for Ukrainian T-80BVs. Changes include the 6TD diesel engine, remote-controlled commander's machine gun, and better optics. None were produced
"Основной танк Т-80 - Вооружение России и других стран Мира"
During the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, Russian forces used T-80 tanks alongside T-72s and T-90s.[citation needed] Some were outfitted with improvised steel grilles on top of turrets, pejoratively called "cope cages" as a meme in online communities.[45] These are erroneously thought to have been fit to counter top-attack munitions such as the FGM-148 Javelin and loitering munitions; the cage add-on was in fact equipped after concerns regarding urban fighting and experiences acquired during the Chechen conflict, in which several Russian tanks were lost due to shoulder-mounted anti-tank weapon fire from buildings.[46][47]
^ "Russia to buy back T-80 tanks and BMP-3 IFVs from South Korea". Echelon Defense. 6 September 2016. Archived from the original on 2016-10-18. Retrieved 2016-10-16.
^ a b "Fprado.com". www.fprado.com. Archived from the original on 2006-07-09. Retrieved 2006-06-26.
T-80UK: Commander version equipped with Shtora-1 APS, thermal imaging night sight TO1-PO2T (detection range, target classification range = 6,400; 4,600 meters at night), new atmospheric parameter sensor, R-163U and R-163K radio stations, TNA-4 navigation system, HE shell remote detonation system, AB-1-P28 autonomous power plant. Adopted by the army in the 1990s.
T-80BVM (2017): Features "Relikt" ERA, Irtysh fire control, Sosna-U gunner's sight (as on T-90A), an improved 125mm gun 2A46M-5, 9K119M Refleks-M missile system, upgraded gas turbine engine and upgrades of various other systems. The tank also has a new autoloader capable of firing the depleted uranium 3BM59 APFSDS shell and the tungsten 3BM60.[68][69][70] The Russian armed forces have received all the modernized T-80BVM tanks under the contract with the Rostec corporation, signed in 2017, Rostec said on 12 December 2019.[citation needed] A new contract for 50 tanks was signed in August 2020 and a new one in August 2022.[71][72] As of September 2022[update] deliveries were underway.[73]
In November 1974, Minister of Defence Andrei Grechko, denied approval to put the Object 219 into production due to the tank's high fuel use and lack of advantages in armament and armour over other tanks then in production. Grechko died in April 1976, and Dmitry Ustinov, an enthusiastic supporter of the Object 219, was appointed in his place. The Object 219-2 was accepted for production as the T-80 in August 1976.[20][21]
"Конфликт в Йемене стал третьей войной для "летающего танка" Т-80БВ". RG. 20 December 2017. Archived from the original on 2017-12-28. Retrieved 2017-12-28.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "T-80" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
"Russia to buy back T-80 tanks and BMP-3 IFVs from South Korea"
The T-80 is a main battle tank (MBT)[11] that was designed and manufactured in the former Soviet Union and manufactured in Russia. The T-80 is based on the T-64, while incorporating features from the later T-72. The chief designer of the T-80 was Soviet engineer Nikolay Popov.[12] When it entered service in 1976, it was the second MBT in the world to be equipped with a gas turbine engine, after the Swedish Stridsvagn 103, and the first production tank to use it as a main propulsion engine (the first tank to use a gas turbine as a main engine was the prototype British Conqueror FV200 Turbine Test Vehicle[13]). The T-80U was last produced in 2001 in a factory in Omsk, Russia.
In 1960, Khrushchev ended all heavy tank programs. LKZ, concerned with the poor reliability of the 5TD diesel engine of the T-64, was freed to focus on gas turbine tank engine development. In 1967, the S. P. Izotov bureau at the Klimov Research-Production Association was assigned to this project. Rather than re-purpose an existing helicopter engine, Izotov built the GTD-1000T from scratch.[17]
Soviet Union: 1,900 T-80s in service in 1985, 4,000 in 1990,[30] and 4,839 during the breakup of the USSR.[31] All were passed on to successor states (including Russia).
T-80UM-1 "Bars" (1997): Russian prototype with new Arena active protection system; bricks all around the turret visible on the outer side are Arena APS projectile casings, while Kontakt-5 ERA bricks lay behind them on the front part of the turret.
In 1985, there were 1,900 T-80 MBTs overall.[30] According to data published in Russia, 2,256 T-80s (up to the T-80BV model, as T-80Us were never deployed in Europe) were stationed with the Group of Soviet Forces in Germany (GSFG) in East Germany between 1986 and 1987. In 1991, when the Soviet Union was breaking up, the Soviet Army operated 4,839 T-80 MBTs of several different models.[31]
Hansard Debates for 3 Feb 1994 Archived 10 September 2017 at the Wayback Machine UK House of Commons
"Nowa Technika Wojskowa". New Military Technique (in Polish). No. 7/09. ISSN 1230-1655.[full citation needed]
^ "Reporting country: Ukraine". United Nations Register of Conventional Arms. 24 May 2004. Archived from the original on 2011-07-28.
^ Hansard Debates for 3 Feb 1994 Archived 10 September 2017 at the Wayback Machine UK House of Commons
^ Mitzer, Stijn; Oliemans, Joost (21 November 2022). "Attack On Europe: Documenting Russian Equipment Losses During The 2022 Russian Invasion Of Ukraine". Orxy Spioenkop. Retrieved 2023-01-27.
"Разоблачение мифа: Т-80 не страшны пески Узбекистана". vestnik-rm.ru. Retrieved 2022-06-08.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m
"ЦАМТО / Впервые танки Т-80БВМ поступили на вооружение мотострелкового соединения ВВО"
Pike, John. "Russian Army Equipment". Global Security. Archived from the original on 2012-06-26. Retrieved 2014-11-15.
In 1966, the LKZ built the experimental Object 288 “rocket tank,” powered by two aerial GTD-350 turbine engines with a combined power of 691 hp (515 kW). Trials indicated that twin propulsion was no better than the turbine engine which had been in development since 1968 at LKZ and Omsktransmash.[18]
Pakistan: 320 T-80UDs (Object 478BE) were ordered in 1996 from Ukraine and delivered between 1997 and 1999.[28]
Prospects Of Application Of Two-Stroke Turbo-Piston Opposed-Piston Diesel Engine Of TD Family In Armored Vehicles
Soviet Tank Programs (PDF) (Report). Archived (PDF) from the original on 2015-09-24. Retrieved 2014-11-12.
^ "Разоблачение мифа: Т-80 не страшны пески Узбекистана". vestnik-rm.ru. Retrieved 2022-06-08.
^ Mikhail Zakharchuk, 'Uroki Chechenskogo krizisa' (Lessons of the Chechen crisis), Armeyskiy sbornik, April 1995, 46.
Белогруд, В. (2008), Yandex Танки в боях за Грозный [Tanks in the battle of Grozny] (in Russian), vol. 2, pp. 48–50
^ a b Kolekcja Czołgi Świata, Issue 8, p 13
^ В. Белогруд. Танки в боях за Грозный. Часть 2. Фронтовая иллюстрация, № 1, 2008, стр.59
"T-80BW". Kolekcja Czołgi Świata [Collection of Tanks of the World] (in Polish). No. 8. Poland: Oxford Educational. 2007. OCLC 1036358448.
^ a b В. Белогруд. Танки в боях за Грозный. Часть 1. Фронтовая иллюстрация, № 9, 2007, стр. 21-25, 35-37
The tank from LKZ equipped with this turbine engine was designed by Nikolay Popov. It was constructed in 1969 and designated Object 219 SP1.[19] It was essentially the T-64T powered by a GTD-1000T multi-fuel gas turbine engine producing up to 1,000 hp (746 kW). During the trials it became clear that the increased weight and dynamic characteristics required a complete redesign of the vehicle's suspension. The second prototype, designated Object 219 SP2, received bigger drive sprockets and return rollers. The number of road wheels was increased from five to six. The construction of the turret was altered to use the same compartment, 125 mm 2A46 tank gun, autoloader and placement of ammunition as the T-64A. Some other equipment was borrowed from the T-64A. The LKZ plant built a series of prototypes based on Object 219 SP2.[18]
In 1992, the United Kingdom bought a number of T-80U MBTs for defence research and development. They were not bought officially but through a specially created trading company, which was supposed to deliver them to Morocco. The price of $5 million offered for each tank ensured a lack of suspicion on the part of the Russians. Britain evaluated the tanks on its proving grounds and transferred one to the US where the Americans evaluated it on the Aberdeen Proving Ground. In January 1994, British Minister of State for Defence Procurement Jonathan Aitken confirmed in parliamentary debates that a Russian T-80U tank was imported for "defence research and development purposes".[48][49]
Roblin, Sebastien. "Russian Tanks Massing Near Ukraine Sport Mods Against Drones, Javelin Missiles". Forbes. Archived from the original on 2022-03-11. Retrieved 2022-03-11.
The inexperienced crews had little knowledge of the layout of the city, while the tanks were attacked by rocket-propelled grenade teams hidden in cellars and on top of high buildings. The anti-tank fire was directed at the least armoured parts of the vehicles.[41]
Pike, John. "Ukraine". Global Security. Archived from the original on 2017-07-07. Retrieved 2014-11-15.
^ "The Russian Defense Ministry will buy the latest T-90M tanks — Rambler News Service". Wordnews. 24 August 2017. Archived from the original on 2017-08-26. Retrieved 2017-08-26.
The original T-80 design uses a 1,000 hp monobloc gas turbine engine instead of a 750-hp diesel engine of the T-64;[19] later variants of the T-80 reverted to diesel engine usage. The gearbox is different, with five forward and one reverse gear, instead of seven forward and one reverse. Suspension reverts from pneumatic to torsion bar, with six forged steel-aluminium rubber-tyred road wheels on each side, with the tracks driven by rear sprockets.[59]
^ Au-yeong, S.K. (10 August 2015). "The T-80 Is Russia's Most Overrated Tank". War is boring. Archived from the original on 2016-09-07.
^ a b c "JED The Military Equipment Directory". Archived from the original on 2007-12-14.
^ "ЦАМТО / "Омсктрансмаш" отправил в войска первую в этом году партию танков Т-80БВМ". Arms trade. 29 July 2021.
"ЦАМТО / Впервые танки Т-80БВМ поступили на вооружение мотострелкового соединения ВВО". Arms trade. 7 April 2021.
"中国曾引进苏联T80坦克测试 我军88坦克直击毫发无损". 新浪军事 (in Chinese (China)). 24 January 2019. Retrieved 2020-12-28.
Find sources: "T-80" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
The T-80 performed so poorly in the First Chechen War that General-Lieutenant Aleksandr Galkin, the head of the Armour Directorate, convinced the Minister of Defence after the conflict to never again procure tanks with gas turbine engines[42] (Galkin reversed his position in 1996, claiming that the T-80U was superior to the T-90).[6] After that, T-80 MBTs were never again used to capture cities, and, instead, they supported infantry squads from a safe distance. Defenders of the T-80 explain that the T-72 performed just as badly in urban fighting in Grozny as the T-80 and that there were two mitigating factors: after the breakup of the Soviet Union: poor funding meant no training for new Russian tank crews, and the tank force entering the city had no infantry support.[35]
Several tank-to-tank battles were recorded. During the fighting in late December 1994 – early January 1995, Russian T-80 tanks destroyed at least six rebel tanks. On the other side, one T-80 was disabled by the hit of one 125 mm shell,[38] Another T-80 received three or four hits of tank shells but remained in service.[39][40] In August 1996, a T-80 destroyed one rebel tank.[38]
In the buildup of forces before the assault on Grozny, T-80s had been transferred from depots to units with little experience with the tank. When no auxiliary power unit is equipped, the T-80's gas turbine engines use almost as much fuel idling as when they are running. Most tank crews inadvertently exhausted their fuel this way on the day of the assault.[37][21]
В. Белогруд. Танки в боях за Грозный. Часть 2. Фронтовая иллюстрация, № 1, 2008, стр.59
"Основной танк Т-80" [Main Tank T-80] (in Russian). Archived from the original on 2014-12-13. Retrieved 2014-12-06.
Apart from Cyprus and the People's Republic of China,[51] Russia has tried to export T-80 MBTs to Turkey and Greece, who were looking for new tanks. These two attempts have failed.[51] Sweden regarded the T-80 an alternative for its mechanized brigades in the early 1990s should the Leclerc be adopted for her armoured brigades, but since the new upgraded Leopard 2 (Strv 122) was chosen, Leopard 2A4s (Strv 121) equipped the mechanized brigades as to simplify logistics.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m Foss 2005, p. 93-94.
The US government obtained one T-80U from the United Kingdom. It was evaluated at Eglin Air Force Base. In 2003, Ukraine transferred four T-80UD MBTs to the US.[58]
^ Pike, John. "Republic of Korea Army Equipment". Global Security. Archived from the original on 2014-10-09. Retrieved 2014-11-15.
Before the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the T-80 was not used in the way in which it was intended (large-scale conventional war in Europe). Until 2022, it was deployed during the political and economic changes in Russia in the 1990s.
Russia did not deploy T-80 tanks in later conflicts such as the 1999 Second Chechen War, the 2008 Russo-Georgian War,[43] or the 2014 Russo-Ukrainian War.[44]
^ "中国曾引进苏联T80坦克测试 我军88坦克直击毫发无损". 新浪军事 (in Chinese (China)). 24 January 2019. Retrieved 2020-12-28.
^ "Russia's upgraded T-80BV tank to feature capability of firing depleted uranium shells". Archived from the original on 2018-12-22. Retrieved 2018-12-22.
^ "Основной боевой танк Т-80". dokwar.ru. Archived from the original on 2014-12-06. Retrieved 2014-12-05.
The T-80 design improved on several aspects of the earlier T-64 design, introducing a gas turbine engine in the original model,[a] and incorporating suspension components of the T-72. This gave the tank a high power-to-weight ratio and made it easily the most mobile tank in service, albeit with acute range problems, as the turbine used fuel rapidly, even at engine idle. (Morozov's subsequent parallel development of the T-80UD replaced the gas turbine with a commercial turbo-diesel, to decrease fuel use and maintenance needs.) In comparison to its anticipated opponent, the American M1 Abrams has a larger, 1,500 hp (1,120 kW), gas turbine, but weighs 61 tons compared to the T-80s 42.6 tons, so it has a worse hp/t ratio of 24.5 compared to 27.1 and is less manoeuvrable than the T-80 (with GT). The T-80 can fire the same 9K112 Kobra (AT-8 Songster) anti-tank guided missile through the main gun as the T-64.
"Russian-Manufactured Armored Vehicle Vulnerability in Urban Combat: The Chechnya Experience"
^ "ЦАМТО / Впервые танки Т-80БВМ поступили на вооружение мотострелкового соединения ВВО". Arms trade. 7 April 2021.
3.4Exports																								3.4.1United Kingdom																											3.4.2South Korea																											3.4.3Pakistan																											3.4.4Cyprus																											3.4.5United States																											3.4.6Failed export attempts
"Modern Explosive Reactive Armours". Fofanov.armor.kiev.ua. Archived from the original on 2013-09-27. Retrieved 2013-09-22.
^ a b "Global Security T-80". Archived from the original on 2014-10-07. Retrieved 2008-04-06.
Object 219A: Early T-80U (Object 219AS) variant. It has the T-80U's turret, but not the Kontakt-5 ERA. Instead, it uses the old Kontakt-1/3 system; some 219As did not have ERA at all. Often misnamed T-80A.
The Kontakt-5 is integrated into the design of the turret, hull, and Brod-M deep wading equipment. Like all of the previous T-80 models, the T-80U has full length rubber side skirts protecting the sides with those above the first three road wheels being armoured and are provided with lifting handles. It can fire the 9M119 Refleks (AT-11 Sniper) guided missile and the long-rod penetrator (HVAPFSDS) 3BM46. The remotely controlled commander's machine gun was replaced by a more flexible pintle-mounted one. A special camouflage paint distorts the tank's appearance in the visible and IR wavebands. The T-80U's 1A46 fire control system includes a laser range finder, a ballistics computer, and a more advanced 1G46 gunner's main sights, which greatly increases the T-80Us firepower over previous models. These new systems, together with the 125 mm D-81TM "Rapira-3" smooth bore gun, ensure that the T-80U can hit targets at a range of up to 5 kilometers (ATGMs and HV/APFSDS). An experienced crew at the international exhibition was able to successfully strike 52 targets without a miss at a distance of 5 km using guided rockets.[26]
The T-80U main battle tank (1985, "U" for uluchsheniye, meaning "improvement") was designed by SKB-2 in Leningrad (hull) and the Morozov Bureau (turret and armament). It is a further development of the T-80A and is powered by the 1,250 hp (919 kW) GTD-1250 gas turbine. It is a step ahead of the GTD-1000T and GTD-1000TF engines that were installed on the previous tanks of the T-80 line. This gas turbine can use jet fuels, diesel, and low-octane gasoline, and has good dynamic stability, service life, and reliability. The GTD-1250 has a built-in automatic system of dust deposit removal. It retains the T-80s high fuel use, which the Russian army found unacceptable during the Chechen conflicts. It is equipped with the 2A46 fire control system and a new turret. The T-80U is protected by a second generation of explosive reactive armour called Kontakt-5, which can reduce the penetration of armour-piercing fin-stabilized discarding sabot (APFSDS) rounds, such as the M829A1 "Silver Bullet", by 38%, and of high-explosive anti-tank (HEAT) rounds.[24] Kontakt-5 had been developed as a response to the threat of modern APFSDS spurred by testing that found that the Israeli 105mm M111 APFSDS ammunition could defeat the glacis armour of the latest models of the T-72 and T-80.[25]
Greece – T-80U took part in the tender for Greece, but lost against the Leopard 2A6.[51]
"Конфликт в Йемене стал третьей войной для "летающего танка" Т-80БВ"
Zaloga, Steven; Markov, David (2000). Russia's T-80U Main Battle Tank. Hong Kong: Concord. ISBN 962-361-656-2.
The autoloader takes between 7.1 and 19.5 seconds to load the main weapon (28 rounds[61]), depending on the initial position of autoloader carousel.[clarification needed][citation needed]
A disadvantage highlighted during combat in Chechnya was the vulnerability of the T-80BV to catastrophic explosion[60] thought to be caused by the vulnerability of stored semi-combustible propellant charges and missiles when contacted by the molten metal jet from the penetration of a HEAT warhead, causing the entire ammunition load to explode.[60] This vulnerability may be addressed in later models. When Western tank designs changed from non-combustible propellant cartridges to semi-combustible, they tended to separate ammunition stowage from the crew compartment with armoured blast doors, and provided 'blow-out' panels to redirect the force and fire of exploding ammunition away from the crew compartment.[60]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l
Karpenko, A.V. (1996). Obozreniye Bronetankovoy Tekhniki (1905–1995 gg.) (in Russian). Nevskiy Bastion. OCLC 41208782.
^ "Attack on Europe: Documenting Russian Equipment Losses During the 2022 Russian Invasion of Ukraine".
В. Белогруд. Танки в боях за Грозный. Часть 1. Фронтовая иллюстрация, № 9, 2007, стр. 21-25, 35-37
"ЦАМТО / Главное / На форуме «Армия-2022» подписаны 7 и вручены 29 госконтрактов с 26 предприятиями ОПК".
Russia: 480 T-80s in active service.[76][77] 3,000 T-80B/T-80BV/T-80U in storage. To be upgraded to T-80BVM standard.[78]
3Service history											Toggle Service history subsection																					3.1Soviet Union																											3.2Russia																								3.2.1First Chechen War																											3.2.2After the First Chechen War																														3.3Russian invasion of Ukraine																											3.4Exports																								3.4.1United Kingdom																											3.4.2South Korea																											3.4.3Pakistan																											3.4.4Cyprus																											3.4.5United States																											3.4.6Failed export attempts
^ Newdick, Thomas (24 November 2021). "Russian T-80 Tank With Improvised Anti-Drone Armor Reportedly Appears In Crimea". The Drive. Archived from the original on 2022-02-24. Retrieved 2022-03-11.
"The weapons being sent to Ukraine and why they may not be enough"
Kazakhstan: 4-5 T-80Us used for training in the military school of the city of Karaganda.[51]
Black Eagle or Object 640 (prototype, cancelled): Two Russian prototypes were shown at trade shows, with a longer chassis and extra pair of road wheels, and a very large turret with redesigned layout, separate ammunition compartment and new ERA array.[65][67]
Cyprus: 27 T-80Us and 14 T-80UKs were ordered in 1996 from Russia;. In 2010, a further 27 T-80Us and 14 T-80UKs were delivered from Russian surplus.[51][75][55][56]
"Republic of Bulgaria Military Statistics (As of November 14, 2013)". Archived from the original on 2016-03-03. Retrieved 2016-03-19 – via MediaFire.
The biggest tank losses were suffered during the ill-fated assault in the Battle of Grozny, which began in December 1994. During three months of combat, Russia lost 18 of the 84 T-80 tanks used between the 133rd Tank Battalion and 3rd Tank Battalion.[36] The forces selected to capture Grozny were not prepared for such an operation, while the city was defended by, among others, former Soviet soldiers. Some T-80 tanks used in the assault lacked explosive reactive armor inserts.[37]
"The Russian Defense Ministry will buy the latest T-90M tanks — Rambler News Service"
Warford, James M. (November–December 1995). "Cold War Armor After Chechnya: An Assessment of the Russian T-80" (PDF). Armor. Vol. CIV, no. 6. Fort Knox, KY: US Army Armor Center. pp. 18–21. ISSN 0004-2420.
Most T-80 MBTs are possessed by Russia, though many were inherited by Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan.
This section lists the main models of the T-80, built in the Soviet Union, Russia and Ukraine, with the dates they entered service.
Gatopoulos, Alex. "The weapons being sent to Ukraine and why they may not be enough". www.aljazeera.com.
^ a b c Zaloga, Steven J. (2018). "The Chechen War". T-90 Standard Tank. Osprey Publishing. pp. 16–17. ISBN 978-1-4728-1822-5.
^ "What to know about the role Javelin antitank missiles could play in Ukraine's fight against Russia". Washington Post. 12 March 2022. Social media has been littered with photos of destroyed Russian tanks with cages. The images have acquired a symbolic resonance so quickly that Internet users have coined the term "cope cage" earning a page on the Internet's primary meme directory.
T-80U – Hull & Turret with Kontakt-5 780 mm vs APFSDS 1,320 mm vs HEAT[8]
^ Pike, John. "Belarus". Global Security. Archived from the original on 2017-02-16. Retrieved 2014-11-15.
"T-80UD". Deagel. Archived from the original on 2016-03-03. Retrieved 2008-08-20.
"What to know about the role Javelin antitank missiles could play in Ukraine's fight against Russia". Washington Post. 12 March 2022. Social media has been littered with photos of destroyed Russian tanks with cages. The images have acquired a symbolic resonance so quickly that Internet users have coined the term "cope cage" earning a page on the Internet's primary meme directory.
"ЦАМТО / Главное / На форуме «Армия-2022» подписаны 7 и вручены 29 госконтрактов с 26 предприятиями ОПК"
^ "Soviet T-80 (1976)". 18 August 2016. Archived from the original on 2021-04-24. Retrieved 2019-08-22.
Foss, Christopher (2005). Jane's Armour & Artillery, 2005–2006. Coulsdon: Jane's Information Group. ISBN 978-0-7106-2686-8.
"The Russian Defense Ministry will buy the latest T-90M tanks — Rambler News Service". Wordnews. 24 August 2017. Archived from the original on 2017-08-26. Retrieved 2017-08-26.
^ Белогруд, В. (2008), Yandex Танки в боях за Грозный [Tanks in the battle of Grozny] (in Russian), vol. 2, pp. 48–50
"Soviet T-80 (1976)". 18 August 2016. Archived from the original on 2021-04-24. Retrieved 2019-08-22.
^ Roblin, Sebastien. "Russian Tanks Massing Near Ukraine Sport Mods Against Drones, Javelin Missiles". Forbes. Archived from the original on 2022-03-11. Retrieved 2022-03-11.
The turret houses the same 125 mm 2A46 smoothbore gun as the T-72, which can fire regular ordnance and anti-tank guided missiles.[3]
"Global Security T-80". Archived from the original on 2014-10-07. Retrieved 2008-04-06.
"Russian T-80 Tank With Improvised Anti-Drone Armor Reportedly Appears In Crimea"
Sweden – T-80U took part in the tender for Sweden, but lost against the Leopard 2A4.
^ "Умер создатель "летающего танка"". Lenta. 6 February 2008. Archived from the original on 2008-02-29. Retrieved 2008-02-28.
Belarus: There were 95 T-80Us in service in 2000 and 69 in 2012 and 2015.[74]
"ЦАМТО / "Омсктрансмаш" отправил в войска первую в этом году партию танков Т-80БВМ"
^ a b c Pike, John. "Russian Army Equipment". Global Security. Archived from the original on 2012-06-26. Retrieved 2014-11-15.
The Ukrainian T-80UD diesel engine variant continued to be produced in Ukraine. The T-80 and its variants are in service in Belarus, Cyprus, Egypt, Kazakhstan,[14] Pakistan, Russia, South Korea, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. Ukraine further developed the T-80UD as the T-84.
In parallel with the T-80U and Russia in general, the Morozov Bureau in Ukraine developed a diesel-powered version, the T-80UD. It is powered by the 1,000 hp 6TD-6-cylinder opposed-piston[27] multi-fuel two-stroke turbo-piston diesel engine, ensuring high fuel efficiency and a long cruising range. The engine support systems make it possible to operate the tank at ambient temperatures of up to 55 °C and ford water obstacles 1.8 m in depth. The T-80UD shares most of the T-80U's improvements, but can be distinguished from it by a different engine deck and distinctive smoke-mortar array and turret stowage boxes. It retains the remotely-controlled commander's machine gun. About 500 T-80UD tanks were built in the Malyshev plant between 1987 and 1991. About 300 were still at the Ukrainian factory when the Soviet Union broke up, so the T-80UD tank was welcomed into Ukrainian military service, and therefore is more common in Ukrainian service than Russian. Unlike Russia, Ukraine has had much better success selling T-80s to foreign customers. Cyprus bought a number of T-80Us and T-80UKs from Russia for its army. Pakistan, countering India's adoption of the Russian T-90, bought Ukrainian T-80UDs for the Pakistan Armoured Corps.[28]
^ a b "Основной танк Т-80" [Main Tank T-80] (in Russian). Archived from the original on 2014-12-13. Retrieved 2014-12-06.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Last Battle T-80BV in Yemen". soldat. Retrieved 2022-05-06.
"JED The Military Equipment Directory". Archived from the original on 2007-12-14.
The 9K33-1T "Osa-1T" was developed by UE "Tetraedr" from Belarus. A SAM system comprises combat assets and technical support means, includingthe 9А33-1Т TELAR or"Combat Vehicle" (CV), based on the original BAZ-5937 (or the new MZKT-69222) and equipped with a new day/night camera system OES-1T instead of the original day-only 9Sh33 or 9Sh38-2 "Karat";the 9M33M2 or -3 SAMs, or the new 9M33M3-1 with a range of 20 km;the 9Т217-1T Transportation and Loading Vehicle (TLV);the 9V210-1T Maintenance Vehicle (MV);the 9V214-1T Alignment Vehicle (AV);the 9V242-1T Automatic Mobile Check-up and Testing Station (AKIPS) andthe 9F16M2 Ground Equipment Kit (GEK).[27][28][29]
^ The Military Balance 2010. — P. 245.+The Military Balance 2012. — P. 317.
"Зенитный ракетный комплекс "Оса"". Archived from the original on 24 May 2013. Retrieved 28 March 2012.
The 9K33 Osa (Russian: 9К33 «Оса», literally "wasp"; NATO reporting name SA-8 Gecko) is a highly mobile, low-altitude, short-range tactical surface-to-air missile system developed in the Soviet Union in the 1960s and fielded in 1972. Its export version name is Romb.[6]
Romania – 16 launchers and 8 reloaders (one regiment in service since 1989)
Mounted on either side of the tracking radar antenna is a small J band parabolic dish antenna to track the missile. Below that is a small circular antenna which emits an I band uplink capture beam to gather the missile shortly after launch. The final antennas in the array are two small white rectangular ones, one on either side of the array mounted alongside the I band. These are used for command uplink to the missile. This twin antenna system permits the 'Land Roll' radar to control up to two missiles simultaneously against a single target.
Gyürösi, Miroslav (January 2009). "Tetraedr reveals three contracts for Osa-1T" (PDF). Janes. Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 November 2014. Retrieved 25 August 2012.
"Designations of Soviet and Russian Military Aircraft and Missiles". Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
"Прочие с долевым участием". www.kupol.ru. Archived from the original on 6 December 2011. Retrieved 28 March 2012.
The Sword of David: The Israeli Air Force at War
"Âîîðóæåííûå ñèëû Àëæèðà". waronline.org. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014.
"Старые комплексы ЗРК "Оса" все еще эффективны". Archived from the original on 31 August 2011. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
^ Məmmədov, www mrsadiq info | Sadiq; Məmmədov, www mrsadiq info | Sadiq (30 October 2020). "Azerbaijan destroys another "Osa" anti-aircraft missile system of Armenian troops (VIDEO)". News.az. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
the 9А33-1Т TELAR or"Combat Vehicle" (CV), based on the original BAZ-5937 (or the new MZKT-69222) and equipped with a new day/night camera system OES-1T instead of the original day-only 9Sh33 or 9Sh38-2 "Karat";
^ Mitzer, Stijn; Oliemans, Joost (22 December 2020). "The Forgotten Deterrent: Kuwait's Luna-M 'FROG-7' Artillery Rockets". Oryx Blog.
Turton, A.R. 2010. Shaking Hands with Billy. Durban: Just Done Publications.
"Houthi Rebels Claim To Have Shot Down Saudi Apache Gunship And Wing Loong UAV in Yemen"
"Зенитные ракетные системы и комплексы" (in Russian). Archived from the original on 26 September 2011. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
George, Edward in: The Cuban Intervention in Angola, 1965–1991, Frank Cass, London, New York, 2005, ISBN 0-415-35015-8, p. 236-237
"SIPRI Arms Transfers Database to Iraq, 1970-2004". Archived from the original on 12 May 2007. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
"Armenian air defenses shot down Azerbaijani Su-25 during Karabakh conflict, pilot was killed: media"
"ПВО Сирии: спасение или иллюзия" (in Russian). 26 November 2012. Archived from the original on 16 October 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
Məmmədov, www mrsadiq info | Sadiq; Məmmədov, www mrsadiq info | Sadiq (30 October 2020). "Azerbaijan destroys another "Osa" anti-aircraft missile system of Armenian troops (VIDEO)". News.az. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
"Houthi Rebels Claim To Have Shot Down Saudi Apache Gunship And Wing Loong UAV in Yemen". 2 December 2019. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ Visegrád 24 [@visegrad24] (1 March 2022). "Ukrainian business owners are doing what they can to help the Ukrainian Army.The owner of a transport company decided to load 2 abandoned Russian 9K33 Osa SAM systems on to a truck and transport them to a Ukrainian Army base" (Tweet). Archived from the original on 1 March 2022 – via Twitter.
"Combat missions of the Azerbaijani Air Force in the Second Karabakh War".
Newdick, Joseph Trevithick and Thomas. "Everything We Know About The Fighting That Has Erupted Between Armenia And Azerbaijan". The Drive. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ Mitzer, Stijn; Oliemans, Joost (2 October 2021). "Armenia's Last Deterrent: The Buk-M1-2 SAM System". Oryx Blog.
Poland – 64. Probably 32 systems upgraded to Osa-AKM-P1 to keep them in service until 2017.[31]
^ Gyürösi, Miroslav (January 2009). "Tetraedr reveals three contracts for Osa-1T" (PDF). Janes. Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 November 2014. Retrieved 25 August 2012.
When launched the booster motor burns for two seconds, this permits the radar to gather and control it at very short ranges (about 1.6 km). The sustainer motor has a 15-second burn, bringing the missile to a top speed of about Mach 2. Once launched the missile is command-guided for the whole flight, and the warhead is detonated by its proximity fuze or possible command. The warhead is said to have a lethal radius of 5 m at low altitude against an F-4 Phantom size target.[citation needed]
9K33 "Osa" (US DoD designation SA-8A "Gecko") began development in 1960 and was introduced in 1971–1972 with four exposed 9M33 missiles per TELAR 9A33B and a maximum range of 12 km (7.5 mi).
^ "Usługi - 155907-2019 - TED Tenders Electronic Daily". ted.europa.eu. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ "Houthi Rebels Claim To Have Shot Down Saudi Apache Gunship And Wing Loong UAV in Yemen". 2 December 2019. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ Ignacio Fuente Cobo; Fernando M. Mariño Menéndez (2006). El conflicto del Sahara occidental (PDF) (in Spanish). Ministerio de Defensa de España & Universidad Carlos III de Madrid. p. 117. ISBN 978-84-9781-253-5. Fuente & Mariño.
Iraq – 50 systems delivered from the Soviet Union between 1982 and 1985.[47] As well as captured Kuwaiti units.
^ "SIPRI Arms Transfers Database to Iraq, 1970-2004". Archived from the original on 12 May 2007. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
"T38 STILET Short Range Air Defence System". Archived from the original on 26 November 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
1S51M3 ("Land Roll") – C band target acquisition radar, H band conical scan target tracking radar and two J band pulse mode fire control radars (range 35 km/22 miles for acquisition, 30 km/19 miles for tracking and 25 km/16 miles for guidance). Mounted on the TELAR.
Russia – 400[41] Since 2007 the Osa-AKM system has modernized and fitted with protection against spoofing[42]
"Combat missions of the Azerbaijani Air Force in the Second Karabakh War"
Each TELAR is able to launch and guide two missiles against one target simultaneously. Kill probability is quoted as being 0.35–0.85 for the Osa and 0.55–0.85 for the Osa-AK and Osa-AKM (presumably depending upon target aspect, speed, maneuverability and radar cross section). Reaction time (from target detection to launch) is around 26 seconds. Time to prepare for engagements from being in transit is around 4 minutes and missile reloading takes around 5 minutes. Each battery of four TELARs is usually accompanied by two reload vehicles carrying 18 missiles in sets of three, with a crane mounted on the reload vehicles to assist in moving the missiles.
The Ukrainian Joint Forces reported destruction of an Osa-AKM surface-to-air missile system of the Russian military forces in the Donbas along with a Zhitel R-330Zh automatic jamming system on 30 March 2019.[13]
"Houthis reveal 2 new air defense systems". debriefer.net. 25 August 2019. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ Turton, A.R. 2010. Shaking Hands with Billy. Durban: Just Done Publications.
Najib, Mohammed (27 October 2017). "Jordan to sell Osa SAMs". Jane's. Archived from the original on 4 November 2017.
"US sending soviet air defence systems to Ukraine". 23 March 2022.
"Armenian air defenses shot down Azerbaijani Su-25 during Karabakh conflict, pilot was killed: media". Al-Masdar News. 27 December 2020.
Produced by the USSR/Russia, there are many export customers for this system, including Cuba, Greece (from the former East Germany), Poland, Syria, Ecuador and Iraq.
The Military Balance 2010. — P. 245.+The Military Balance 2012. — P. 317.
The system also saw use in the 2008 Russo-Georgian War by both the Georgian and Russian militaries.
^ "Homepage – Infinite Scroll | MBS News". Archived from the original on 21 June 2020. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ "Defense & Security Intelligence & Analysis: IHS Jane's – IHS". Archived from the original on 27 January 2013. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
"Azerbaijan destroys another "Osa" anti-aircraft missile system of Armenian troops (VIDEO)"
"Ukrainian business owners are doing what they can to help the Ukrainian Army.The owner of a transport company decided to load 2 abandoned Russian 9K33 Osa SAM systems on to a truck and transport them to a Ukrainian Army base"
"U.S. aviators rescued; Gadhafi remains defiant". CNN. 24 August 2011. Archived from the original on 24 March 2011. Retrieved 22 March 2011.
Ignacio Fuente Cobo; Fernando M. Mariño Menéndez (2006). El conflicto del Sahara occidental (PDF) (in Spanish). Ministerio de Defensa de España & Universidad Carlos III de Madrid. p. 117. ISBN 978-84-9781-253-5. Fuente & Mariño.
GDC (27 September 2020). "Azerbaijan used TB2 drone to destroy twelve 9K33 Osa short-range anti-aircraft systems of Armenia". Global Defense Corp. Retrieved 15 July 2021.
"Əsir düşməmək üçün "Su-25" döyüş təyyarəsini düşmən səngərinə çırpan şəhid polkovnik Zaur Nudirəliyev VİDEO" (in Azerbaijani). 27 December 2020.
^ "Defense & Security Intelligence & Analysis: IHS Jane's – IHS". Archived from the original on 26 January 2013. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
^ "Âîîðóæåííûå ñèëû Àëæèðà". waronline.org. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014.
9K33M2 "Osa-AK" (US DoD designation SA-8B "Gecko Mod-0") with TELAR 9A33BM2 was introduced in 1975 with the new six-missile box launcher, each 9M33M2 missile being a sealed round.
^ ""Купол" защищает поле боя". Archived from the original on 25 November 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
^ "9K33M3 Osa-AKM". Archived from the original on 19 February 2013. Retrieved 13 July 2008..
^ "Usługi - 172966-2018 - TED Tenders Electronic Daily". ted.europa.eu. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
Libyan 9K33 Osa were used, and some destroyed during the 2011 Libyan Civil War by NATO airstrikes.[12]
^ "Əsir düşməmək üçün "Su-25" döyüş təyyarəsini düşmən səngərinə çırpan şəhid polkovnik Zaur Nudirəliyev VİDEO" (in Azerbaijani). 27 December 2020.
The two missiles can be guided on different frequencies to further complicate electronic countermeasures (ECM). There is a tubular device fitted to and above the tracking radar; this is a 9Sh33 electro-optical tracker. It can be used to track the target when the main tracking radar is jammed by ECM.
^ John Pike. "Turkmensitan Army Equipment". globalsecurity.org. Archived from the original on 29 April 2015. Retrieved 31 August 2007.
Federation of American Scientists page Archived 19 February 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Mitzer, Stijn; Oliemans, Joost (2 October 2021). "Armenia's Last Deterrent: The Buk-M1-2 SAM System". Oryx Blog.
In addition to the TELARs, each regiment is also assigned a single radar collimation vehicle 9V914 (initially on the BAZ-5938 chassis but more often found on the ZiL-131 truck). This vehicle assists in the alignment of the TELAR's radar systems, ensuring accurate target tracking and engagement.
^ "T38 STILET Short Range Air Defence System". Archived from the original on 26 November 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
John Pike. "Turkmensitan Army Equipment". globalsecurity.org. Archived from the original on 29 April 2015. Retrieved 31 August 2007.
"Escalation in Donbas: One Ukrainian soldier killed, four wounded amid 19 enemy attacks in past day"
^ Najib, Mohammed (27 October 2017). "Jordan to sell Osa SAMs". Jane's. Archived from the original on 4 November 2017.
McCarthy, Don (14 November 2013). The Sword of David: The Israeli Air Force at War. ISBN 9781781592908.
The Osa was the first mobile air defense missile system incorporating its own engagement radars on a single vehicle.
4K33 "OSA-M" (NATO reporting name SA-N-4 "Gecko") was introduced in 1972 and is the naval version of the system with two 9M33M missiles on a Zif-122 retractable rotating launcher and improved performance. It has been installed on Gepard-class frigate, Kara-class guided missile cruisers, Kiev-class VTOL cruisers and also the Kirov, Slava and Krivak classes.
Syria – 14 batteries, composed of 60 independent and autonomous fighting vehicles[44][45]
The system is reported to be of the frequency-agile monopulse type. It consists of an elliptical rotating surveillance antenna mounted on top of the array, operates in H band (6 to 8 GHz) and has a 30 km acquisition range against most targets. The large pulsed J band (14.5 GHz) engagement antenna is mounted below it in the centre of the array and has a maximum tracking range of about 20 km.
^ International Institute for Strategic Studies (2021). The Military Balance. p. 449. ISBN 9781032012278.
This page was last edited on 14 February 2023, at 20:50 (UTC).
Kuwait – Purchased in the late 1980s.[50] Captured by the Iraqi forces in the Gulf War.
""Купол" защищает поле боя". Archived from the original on 25 November 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
^ "Escalation in Donbas: One Ukrainian soldier killed, four wounded amid 19 enemy attacks in past day". Archived from the original on 30 March 2019. Retrieved 31 March 2019.
^ Newdick, Joseph Trevithick and Thomas. "Everything We Know About The Fighting That Has Erupted Between Armenia And Azerbaijan". The Drive. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
Mitzer, Stijn; Oliemans, Joost (22 December 2020). "The Forgotten Deterrent: Kuwait's Luna-M 'FROG-7' Artillery Rockets". Oryx Blog.
The 9M33 missiles are 3.158 m (10.3 ft) long, weigh 126 kg (278 lb) and use command guidance. There is also a backup low-light optical tracking system for heavy ECM environments. The latest 9M33M3 missiles have an increased total weight of 170 kg (375 lb) in order to provide the extended range coverage and larger warhead. Propulsion is provided by a dual-thrust solid fuel rocket motor. Both versions feature a missile speed of around Mach 2.4 (peaking at around Mach 3) for a maximum target engagement speed of around Mach 1.4 for the original missile and Mach 1.6 for the M2\M3 missiles. The warhead for the initial and M2 versions weighs 19 kg (42 pounds), increased to 40 kg (88 lb) in the M3 version to improve performance against helicopters. All versions have impact and proximity fuzes.
^ "U.S. aviators rescued; Gadhafi remains defiant". CNN. 24 August 2011. Archived from the original on 24 March 2011. Retrieved 22 March 2011.
Saman and Saman-M (Russian Саман – adobe) is a development of the Osa\Osa-M system into target drones, used for testing and training with air defense systems, including SAMs.
"933-1 SA-1 Short Range Air Defence System". Archived from the original on 26 November 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
The 9K33M3 is also able[citation needed] to use missiles which are wire-guided, presumably for use in an ECM-heavy environment where the radio command guidance may not operate properly.
^ "Designations of Soviet and Russian Military Aircraft and Missiles". Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
5Deployment and history											Toggle Deployment and history subsection																					5.1Russian war in Ukraine																											5.2Yemeni Civil War																											5.32020 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict																											5.42022 Russian invasion of Ukraine
^ "ПВО Сирии: спасение или иллюзия" (in Russian). 26 November 2012. Archived from the original on 16 October 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
"Orbiter-3 downed in Artsakh hit with OSA AKM modernized in Armenia"
A 9K33 battery comprises four 9A33B TELAR vehicles and two 9T217 transloader vehicles on BAZ-5939 chassis with reload missiles and a crane. A reload time of five minutes has been reported per TELAR.
P-40 ("Long Track") – E band early warning radar (also used by the 2K11 Krug and 2K12 Kub, range 175 km/108 miles), mounted on a tracked vehicle (a modified AT-T).
"Usługi - 172966-2018 - TED Tenders Electronic Daily". ted.europa.eu. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ "Armenian air defenses shot down Azerbaijani Su-25 during Karabakh conflict, pilot was killed: media". Al-Masdar News. 27 December 2020.
"Azerbaijan used TB2 drone to destroy twelve 9K33 Osa short-range anti-aircraft systems of Armenia"
^ "Azerbaijan used TB2 drone to destroy twelve 9K33 Osa short-range anti-aircraft systems of Armenia". 27 September 2020. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ "Combat missions of the Azerbaijani Air Force in the Second Karabakh War".
All versions of the 9K33 feature all-in-one 9A33 transporter-launcher and radar vehicles which can detect, track and engage aircraft independently or with the aid of regimental surveillance radars. The six-wheeled transport vehicles BAZ-5937 are fully amphibious and air transportable. The road range is about 500 km.
^ "Старые комплексы ЗРК "Оса" все еще эффективны". Archived from the original on 31 August 2011. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
PPRU-M1 (PPRU-M1-2) is a mobile command center for a mixed grouping of air defense forces, such as 9K33 Osa and the Tor missile system, 9K22 Tunguska, 9K35 Strela-10 and 9K38 Igla.[26]
"Defense & Security Intelligence & Analysis: IHS Jane's – IHS". Archived from the original on 27 January 2013. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
^ Gyürösi, Miroslav (February 2006). "Osa-1T upgrade boosts combat capability" (PDF). Janes. Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 November 2014. Retrieved 25 August 2012.
9K33M3 "Osa-AKM" (US DoD designation SA-8B "Gecko Mod-1") with TELAR 9A33BM3 and missiles 9M33M3 was introduced in 1980 with the maximum range extended to 15 km (9.3 mi) and maximum altitude to 12 km (40,000 ft) as explained above. Most OSA-AKM systems also feature an IFF antenna.
"Homepage – Infinite Scroll | MBS News". Archived from the original on 21 June 2020. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
On 29 November 2019, Russian sources speculated that a Soviet made 9K33 Osa fired by Houthi forces shot down a Saudi Arabian Army Aviation AH-64 Apache.[14][15] Neither Yemen nor Iran had any 9K33 Osa in their armed forces, while known Houthis' operated systems are based on the Soviet made surface-to-air 2K12 Kub which employs a two-stage rocket engine and the air-to-air missiles R-73 and R-27T which both have a single stage rocket engine.[16]
The 1S51M3-2 radar system on the 9K33 Osa TELAR received the NATO codename Land Roll. It was derived from the naval 'Pop Group' radar system but is smaller since it does not require the elaborate stabilisation system. An improved system, the Osa-AKM (NATO reporting name SA-8B 'Gecko' Mod 1) was first seen in Germany in 1980. It had improvements added to the launcher configuration, carrying six missiles in ribbed containers.
"9K33M3 Osa-AKM". Archived from the original on 19 February 2013. Retrieved 13 July 2008..
Pike, John. "SA-8 GECKO / 9K33M3 Osa-AKM". www.globalsecurity.org. Archived from the original on 12 March 2018. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
"Defense & Security Intelligence & Analysis: IHS Jane's – IHS". Archived from the original on 26 January 2013. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
^ "US sending soviet air defence systems to Ukraine". 23 March 2022.
^ "SA-8 GECKO / 9K33M3 Osa-AKM". www.globalsecurity.org. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ "Usługi - 158283-2019 - TED Tenders Electronic Daily". ted.europa.eu. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
the 9M33M2 or -3 SAMs, or the new 9M33M3-1 with a range of 20 km;
"Usługi - 158283-2019 - TED Tenders Electronic Daily". ted.europa.eu. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
The T38 "Stilet" is a further development of the Osa-1T. Main components are the TELAR T381 on MZKT-69222 chassis and the new missile T382. Maximum range of targets' destruction 20 km, minimal RCS of targets detected 0.02 m2.[30]
Gyürösi, Miroslav (February 2006). "Osa-1T upgrade boosts combat capability" (PDF). Janes. Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 November 2014. Retrieved 25 August 2012.
^ "Прочие с долевым участием". www.kupol.ru. Archived from the original on 6 December 2011. Retrieved 28 March 2012.
^ Pike, John. "SA-8 GECKO / 9K33M3 Osa-AKM". www.globalsecurity.org. Archived from the original on 12 March 2018. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
East Germany – 41 Osa-AK. Partially sold to Greece after the German reunification.
^ "Usługi - 153124-2019 - TED Tenders Electronic Daily". ted.europa.eu. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ "Houthis reveal 2 new air defense systems". debriefer.net. 25 August 2019. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
^ George, Edward in: The Cuban Intervention in Angola, 1965–1991, Frank Cass, London, New York, 2005, ISBN 0-415-35015-8, p. 236-237
^ "Movement of manpower, tanks and equipment spotted in Mariupol".
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Orbiter-3 downed in Artsakh hit with OSA AKM modernized in Armenia". lragir.am. Retrieved 22 July 2020.
Both Russia and Ukraine have 9K33 Osa systems in their inventory. On 23 March 2022, The Washington Post reported that the United States was sending additional systems to Ukraine.[24]On 21 December 2022, the Russian military moved equipments through the southern occupied city of Mariupol including 15 tanks and several SA-8 Gecko systems. [25]
^ McCarthy, Don (14 November 2013). The Sword of David: The Israeli Air Force at War. ISBN 9781781592908.
AIR-DEFENCE MISSILE LAUNCHER 9K33 "OSA"( 9A33 -CARRIER, 9M33 – MISSILES)(SA-8 GECKO) – Walk around photos
the 9V242-1T Automatic Mobile Check-up and Testing Station (AKIPS) and
Osa-AKM-P1 "Żądło" (export name SA-8P Sting) is a Polish upgrade of the 9K33M2 "Osa-AK" and 9K33M3 "Osa-AKM". Probably 32 of the 64 systems purchased from the Soviet Union will be upgraded to keep them in service until 2017. An upgraded TELAR 9A33BM3-P1 was displayed at the MSPO 2004 exhibition in Kielce, Poland. The upgraded vehicle is fitted with a passive detection and identification system SIC 12/TA as well as the ISZ-01 IFF system.[31][32]
"Usługi - 153124-2019 - TED Tenders Electronic Daily". ted.europa.eu. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
Visegrád 24 [@visegrad24] (1 March 2022). "Ukrainian business owners are doing what they can to help the Ukrainian Army.The owner of a transport company decided to load 2 abandoned Russian 9K33 Osa SAM systems on to a truck and transport them to a Ukrainian Army base" (Tweet). Archived from the original on 1 March 2022 – via Twitter.
There have been unconfirmed reports of other possible versions of the missile with both infrared and semi-active radar terminal homing seekers.
In late 1980s, Cuba deployed several 9K33 Osa units in southern Angola which posed a significant threat to South African air superiority at shorter ranges.[10] The South African 61 Mechanised Battalion Group captured an intact 9K33 Osa anti-aircraft missile system on 3 October 1987 during the Battle of Cuito Cuanavale. This was the first time that such a system had ever fallen into the hands of non-Warsaw Pact forces, giving Western intelligence agencies an opportunity to examine an important Soviet-bloc weapon system.[11]
^ "Зенитный ракетный комплекс "Оса"". Archived from the original on 24 May 2013. Retrieved 28 March 2012.
^ "933-1 SA-1 Short Range Air Defence System". Archived from the original on 26 November 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
Jordan – retired in 2017, 52 offered for sale.[48] 35 Osa-AKs sold to Armenia before 2020.[49]
"Everything We Know About The Fighting That Has Erupted Between Armenia And Azerbaijan"
"Əsir düşməmək üçün "Su-25" döyüş təyyarəsini düşmən səngərinə çırpan şəhid polkovnik Zaur Nudirəliyev VİDEO"
"Defense & Security Intelligence & Analysis: IHS Jane's – IHS"
Engagement range for the early versions is approximately 2–9 km (1.3–5.6 miles) and engagement altitudes of between 50 and 5,000 m (164–16,400 ft). The 9M33M2 "Osa-A" missile extends the ranges out to 1.5–10 km (1–6.2 miles) and engagement altitudes to 25–5,000 m (82–16,400 ft). The 9M33M3 missile greatly enhances the altitude engagement envelope to 10–12,000 m (33–42,500 ft), and as such are also able to fly further (about 15 km/9 miles) but the system is not able to engage targets at longer ranges, due to other factors such as the radar tracking of the missiles. The system is designed for use primarily against jet aircraft and helicopters in any kind of weather.
In 2019 Poland started modification of the whole environment of the Osa system. Those works has been commissioned to WZU Grudziądz. The total cost is about €40-50 million.[33][34][35][36]
"Azerbaijan used TB2 drone to destroy twelve 9K33 Osa short-range anti-aircraft systems of Armenia". 27 September 2020. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
"Usługi - 155907-2019 - TED Tenders Electronic Daily". ted.europa.eu. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
"night-panther " Вооруженные силы Сирии". Archived from the original on 9 November 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
^ "Зенитные ракетные системы и комплексы" (in Russian). Archived from the original on 26 September 2011. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
P-15 ("Flat Face A") or P-19 ("Flat Face B") or P-15M(2) ("Squat Eye") – 380 kW C band target acquisition radar (also used by the S-125 Neva and 2K12 Kub, range 250 km/155 miles), mounted on a ZiL-131 truck.
The Armenian Air Defense extensively employed 9K33 Osa missile systems during the 2020 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. During the opening days of the war, several videos released by the Azerbaijani military showed several Armenian 9K33 Osa and 9K35 Strela-10 vehicles destroyed by Bayraktar TB2 armed drones,[17][18] with a number of them destroyed in the following weeks when found on the battlefield.[19] Twelve 9K33 Osa missile systems of Armenian Army destroyed during the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict by Azerbaijani Bayraktar TB2.[20]On 4 October 2020, an Azerbaijani Air force Sukhoi Su-25 aircraft was shot down, by Armenian forces, probably by a 9K33 Osa while targeting Armenian positions in Fuzuli. The pilot, Col. Zaur Nudiraliyev, died in the crash. Azerbaijani officials acknowledged the loss in December 2020,[21][22] with the 9K33 Osa vehicle possibly using passive detection and shoot and scoot tactics to survive the Azerbaijani suppression of air defenses missions.[23]
^ "night-panther " Вооруженные силы Сирии". Archived from the original on 9 November 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
^ a b "Defense & Security Intelligence & Analysis: IHS Jane's – IHS". Archived from the original on 26 January 2013. Retrieved 14 November 2014.
"Escalation in Donbas: One Ukrainian soldier killed, four wounded amid 19 enemy attacks in past day". Archived from the original on 30 March 2019. Retrieved 31 March 2019.
PRV-9 or PRV-16 ("Thin Skin") – E band height finding radar (also used by the 2K11 Krug and 2K12 Kub, range 240 km/148 miles), mounted on a KrAZ-255B truck.
^ GDC (27 September 2020). "Azerbaijan used TB2 drone to destroy twelve 9K33 Osa short-range anti-aircraft systems of Armenia". Global Defense Corp. Retrieved 15 July 2021.
International Institute for Strategic Studies (2021). The Military Balance. p. 449. ISBN 9781032012278.
"SA-8 GECKO / 9K33M3 Osa-AKM". www.globalsecurity.org. Retrieved 4 January 2021.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Orbiter-3 downed in Artsakh hit with OSA AKM modernized in Armenia". lragir.am. Retrieved 22 July 2020.
Czechoslovakia – One regiment which passed to the Czech Republic.
^ "The History: The Royal Gloucestershire, Berkshire and Wiltshire Regiment". British Army. Archived from the original on 9 January 2007. Retrieved 8 December 2013.
Sphinx: Several British regiments have a sphinx on their regimental colour as well as cap badges and belt buckles to commemorate service in Egypt, specifically the Battle of Alexandria in 1801.
The Queen's Colour/King's Colour and Regimental Colour (in regiments of Foot Guards and line infantry)
^ Dancocks, Daniel G. "Appendix A". Gallant Canadians: The Story of the 10th Canadian Infantry Battalion. Calgary, Alberta: Calgary Highlanders Regimental Funds Foundation.
In some cases where a battle honour was not granted, a special distinction has been substituted. For example, soldiers of The Rifles wear a cap badge on both the front and the rear of their hats. This so-called"back badge" is unique in the British Army and was awarded to the 28th Regiment of Foot for their actions at the Battle of Alexandria in 1801. Knowledge of that battle honour, represented by the back badge, is said to have encouraged the soldiers of the Gloucestershire Regiment in the defence of Gloster Hill during the Battle of the Imjin River in April 1951 during the Korean War.[3]
In European military tradition, military units may be acknowledged for their achievements in specific wars or operations of a military campaign. In Great Britain and those countries of the Commonwealth which share a common military legacy with the British, battle honours are awarded to selected military units as official acknowledgement for their achievements in specific wars or operations of a military campaign. These honours usually take the form of a place and a date (e.g. "Cambrai 1917").
The Army Post Office Corps (APOC) was the first British Volunteer unit to be awarded a battle honour for their participation in the 1882 Anglo-Egyptian War. The honour (Egypt 1882) was displayed on the regimental flag of 24 Middlesex Rifle Volunteer Corps (Post Office Rifles).
The British Admiralty set honour board sizes for various types of ship: 10 by 6 feet (3.0 by 1.8 m) for capital ships and shore bases, 6 by 5 feet (1.8 by 1.5 m) for cruisers and large auxiliary ships, 4 by 3 feet (1.22 by 0.91 m) for all other surface ships, and 21 by 17 inches (53 by 43 cm) for submarines (the size restriction is so the board can be moved through the submarine's hatches, as it is only displayed when the submarine is on the surface).[9]
Prior to independence, battle honours were awarded to British Indian Army as part of the British military tradition. Awards prior to the takeover of the Presidency Armies by the Crown in 1858 were done by the Governor General in India or the respective Presidency government that the units belonged to.
A battle honour is an award of a right by a government or sovereign to a military unit to emblazon the name of a battle or operation on its flags ("colours"), uniforms or other accessories where ornamentation is possible.
The practice was later extended to these same regiments and corps in the successor Commonwealth armed forces.
The earliest battle honour in the British Army is Tangier 1662–80, granted to the Tangier Horse (later known as the 1st Royal Dragoons), the oldest line cavalry regiment of the British army, who in 1969 amalgamated with the Royal Horse Guards to become The Blues and Royals. Also awarded the honour was the2nd Regiment of Foot, or the Tangier Regiment now The Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment, the senior English regiment in the Union (after the Royal Scots, the senior Scottish and British Regiment), for their protracted 23-year defence of the Colony of Tangier. The battle honour is still held by the successor regiment, the Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment.[1] During these early years of the British standing army, a regiment needed only to engage the enemy with musketry before it was eligible for a battle honour. However, older battle honours are carried on the standards of the Yeomen of the Guard and the Honourable Corps of Gentlemen at Arms, neither of which are part of the army, but are instead the Sovereign's Bodyguard, in the personal service of the sovereign.
^ a b c d e f g Cassells, The Destroyers, p. 233
Some battle honours, granted prior to independence to units for battles or campaigns in India against the local rulers or nationalist forces, have been declared as 'repugnant' and are not celebrated or held in esteem.[10]
La Martinière is the only school in the world to have been awarded royal battle honours for its role in the defence of Lucknow during the Mutiny of 1857. In the honour of this institution, The President of India also launched a stamp post in its name.
"DHH Volume 2, Part 1: Extant Commissioned Ships". Official Lineages. Directorate of History and Heritage, Canadian Forces. 7 July 2006. Archived from the original on 1 February 2014. Retrieved 8 January 2014.
^ a b (in French) DÉCISION N° 12350/SGA/DMPA/SHD/DAT relative aux inscriptions de noms de batailles sur les drapeaux et étendards des corps de troupe de l'armée de terre, du service de santé des armées et du service des essences des armées
In France, Battle honours, known officially as inscriptions des noms de batailles au drapeau, were created during the Wars of the French Revolution. The first honour such awarded is Valmy, 1792, the last one to date is Koweït, 1991. The honours are sewn in gold letters on the regiment's flag or standard under the form battle name, date (such as Austerlitz, 1805). In some cases, the honour refers to a whole conflict and take the form geographical designation, date (such as AFN, 1952–1962) or simply war, date (such as Grande guerre, 1914–1918). Some military schools and academies have their motto sewn on their flags as a battle honour, such as École polytechnique's Pour la Patrie, les sciences et la gloire (for Fatherland, Sciences and Glory) in addition to the "true" battle honour Paris, 1814.[15]
^ Deefholts, Margaret. "History's ghosts in Old Lucknow". Retrieved 8 December 2013.
Battle honours, theatre honours, honour titles and their ilk form a part of the wider variety of distinctions which serve to distinguish military units from each other.
"Chronological Index of British and Imperial Battle Honours to 1945"
^ Wallace, Lt.-Gen. Sir Christopher (2005). "Appendix D: Territorials, Militia and Cadets". The King's Royal Rifle Corps ... the 60th Rifles - A Brief History: 1755 to 1965. Winchester: Royal Green Jackets Museum Trust. pp. 235–236.
For the British Army, the need to adopt a system to recognise military units' battlefield accomplishments was apparent since its formation as a standing army in the later part of the 17th century.Although the granting of battle honours had already been in place at the time, it was not until 1784 that infantry units were authorised to bear battle honours on their colours.Before then, a regiment's colours were practical tools for rallying troops in the battlefield and not quite something for displaying the unit's past distinctions.
Battle honour days are celebrated by a few units or regiments. Present battle honour days however pertain to battles for which honours have been won post-independence.
Eagle: The Royal Scots Dragoon Guards have an eagle on their cap badge to commemorate the capture of a French Imperial Eagle at Waterloo by the Royal Scots Greys. The Blues and Royals similarly wear an eagle as a shoulder badge commemorating the Eagle captured at Waterloo by the Royal Dragoons.
1In the British military tradition											Toggle In the British military tradition subsection																					1.1Origins																											1.2Entitlement																											1.3Battle honours for the Second World War																											1.4Display																											1.5Significance																											1.6Overseas awards to British military units																											1.7Naval battle honours																								1.7.1Battle honour board																														1.8Unusual awards of battle honours
Subject to approval by the sovereign, awards made by other allied nations may be permitted to be worn or carried. For example, several units have been awarded the French Croix de guerre 1914–1918 and Croix de guerre 1939–1945, the ribbon of which can be worn on the uniform. The United States Presidential Unit Citation, as with other similar citations, is similarly worn on the uniform (usually on the arm), but is also carried on the colour or guidon of the unit it has been awarded to. In the Commonwealth, three units are permitted to carry this award on their Regimental Colour:
Theatre honours, a type of recognition in the British tradition closely allied to battle honours, were introduced to honour units which provided sterling service in a campaign but were not part of specific battles for which separate battle honours were awarded. Theatre honours could be listed and displayed on regimental property but not emblazoned on the colours.
Rodger, Alexander. 2003 Battle Honours of the British Empire and Commonwealth Land Forces 1662–1991, The Crowood Press. ISBN 1-86126-637-5
The army ordered regiments to form honours committees comprising at least five regimental officers, including past and present commanding officers, and the honorary colonel and lieutenant colonel. The regimental committee reviewed the report to determine which battle honours were claimable based on the unit's wartime service. The regiment submitted an application of claims to the army with evidence showing that the unit was worthy of the battle honours. Claims could also be made for actions not listed in the report. In Britain, public announcements followed the final approval of claims. The ceremonial granting of new battle honours would be made in the form of the presentation of new Regimental and Sovereign's Colours to the regiment by the British monarch or an agent of the Crown, such as the Governor General of a commonwealth dominion.
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police, although a civilian police force, was awarded the status of a dragoon regiment by King George V following the service of many of its members during the First World War. As a consequence, it then became entitled to display the many honours it had won dating back to 1885:
As warships do not carry regimental colours, battle honours are instead displayed on a battle honour board.[7] This is usually a solid wooden board (traditionally teak) mounted on the ship's superstructure, carved with the ship's badge and scrolls naming the ship and the associated honours, and either left completely unpainted, or with the lettering painted gold.[9] The size of the board and number of scrolls is dependent on the number of honours earned by a ship and her predecessors, although it is common for blank scrolls to be included in a design.[9] Other designs are also in use: these include plaques for the ship and honours mounted on a backing board, or the details painted onto a flat board.
Dancocks, Daniel G. "Appendix A". Gallant Canadians: The Story of the 10th Canadian Infantry Battalion. Calgary, Alberta: Calgary Highlanders Regimental Funds Foundation.
The practice of awarding battle honours and theatre honours to the Indian Army continued after independence in 1947 and these honours continue to be listed against a regiment's achievements. Battle honours, but not theatre honours, are permitted to be emblazoned on the President's Colours, which have replaced the King's colours after independence.
During the 19th century, honours were limited to eight on a regiment's flag, leading to erase some honours in order to make room for newer ones. This limitation was upped to twelve honours after the Second World War. Some units, such as the 2 RIMA, have been awarded more than twelve honours, but their flag displays only the twelve considered the most important in the history of the regiment. Other units, such as the 1 RIMA, have been granted a dispensation allowing them to emblazon all their battle honours, regardless of their number.[15]
D Company, 6th Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment[6] (Awarded to D Company but carried by the battalion as a whole)
Wallace, Lt.-Gen. Sir Christopher (2005). "Appendix D: Territorials, Militia and Cadets". The King's Royal Rifle Corps ... the 60th Rifles - A Brief History: 1755 to 1965. Winchester: Royal Green Jackets Museum Trust. pp. 235–236.
In addition, the RCMP received the honorary distinction of the badge of the Canadian Provost Corps, in recognition of the fact that the first Canadian military police unit was formed from volunteers from the RCMP.
Since battle honours are primarily emblazoned on colours, artillery units, which do not have colours in the British military tradition, were awarded honour titles instead. These honour titles were permitted to be used as part of their official nomenclature, for example 13 Field Regiment (Chushul).
(in French) DÉCISION N° 12350/SGA/DMPA/SHD/DAT relative aux inscriptions de noms de batailles sur les drapeaux et étendards des corps de troupe de l'armée de terre, du service de santé des armées et du service des essences des armées
While regimental colours and guidons are no longer carried on operations by British and Commonwealth military, as was their initial military function, the battle honours they carry are held in high esteem by military personnel.Regiments take pride in their battle honours, and the winning of further battle honours, as these are seen to enhance a unit's reputation.
"The History: The Royal Gloucestershire, Berkshire and Wiltshire Regiment". British Army. Archived from the original on 9 January 2007. Retrieved 8 December 2013.
Two educational institutions have been awarded battle honours. La Martinere College in Lucknow, India was awarded a battle honour, Defence of Lucknow 1857,[10] for the role played by its students and teachers during the mutiny of 1857.[11] McGill University in Canada received the award for their contingent's bravery at Arras in 1917 during the First World War.[12]
"2nd Battalion, Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry". 1 May 2009. Archived from the original on 2 April 2010.
The baldric worn by the Drum Major of the regimental band/pipes and drums
The need to develop a centralised system to oversee the selection and granting of battle honours arose in the 19th century following the increase of British military engagements during the expansion of the Empire.Thus in 1882, a committee was formed to adjudicate applications of battle honour claims.This committee, later called the Battles Nomenclature Committee, still maintains its function in the British Army today.
The only cadet unit to receive a battle honour is 1st Cadet Battalion, King's Royal Rifle Corps (KRRC). Around 100 older cadets, principally non-commissioned officers, served in the South African War with the KRRC, the City Imperial Volunteers and the Royal Army Medical Corps (RAMC). Four cadets were killed in action.[13] In recognition of this service, King Edward VII granted the battalion the Battle Honour "South Africa 1900-1902".[14] They are permitted to wear a miniature KRRC cap badge with this single battle honour, and call their members “riflemen” rather than cadets.
Campaign streamer – a similar tradition of the U.S. military
Singh, Sarbans (1993) Battle Honours of the Indian Army 1757 – 1971. Vision Books (New Delhi) ISBN 81-7094-115-6
Battle honours for Commonwealth warships were initially awarded and controlled by the British Admiralty, under the "Commonwealth Battle Honours List".[2] Warships of Commonwealth navies would also inherit the honours of any preceding British warship of the name.[2][9] Commonwealth navies later moved to independent but parallel systems. Australia began moving away by instituting a battle honour for the ships that served in the Vietnam War, then moved to a completely independent system before 1993, to avoid HMAS Newcastle inheriting the battle honours of the British Newcastles.[9] The Royal Canadian Navy began displaying battle honours in the 1950s, but after the Unification of the Canadian Forces in 1968, new units entering service would only carry those honours earned by Canadian ships.[2]
Please help this article by looking for better, more reliable sources. Unreliable citations may be challenged or deleted.
It remains a tradition that whenever military personnel meet a colour or guidon, it must be saluted.This is not only because it is an object which represents the authority of the Crown, but also because the colours contain a regiment's battle honours, and thus represent the regiment's history and its deeds. Saluting a colour or guidon is thus a pivotal act in retaining an awareness of regimental history and traditions—key in the functioning of the regimental system. It remains common for army instructors to ensure that their recruits have memorised and are able to recite all of their regiment's battle honours. Such methods are meant to bring the new soldier into the regimental ethos and sub-culture by means of imprinting shared history.
^ a b c d e Cassells, The Destroyers, pp. 233–4
Cassells, Vic (2000). The Destroyers: their battles and their badges. East Roseville, NSW: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-7318-0893-2. OCLC 46829686.
"United States Distinguished Unit Citation to D Company, Sixth Battalion, The Royal Australian Regiment". Vietnam Veterans Association of Australia.
Naval battle honours are battle honours awarded to warships. There are two types of naval battle honours: those awarded to ships that participate in a battle or campaign, or those for single-ship actions.[7] Honours for battles take their name from the location of the battle, while honours for actions are named for the opposing ship.[7] These are rendered differently, in order to distinguish between the two types and to limit confusion between battle honours with the same name (for example, between the multi-ship Battle of the Chesapeake in 1781, and the capture of USS Chesapeake by HMS Shannon in 1813).[7] In older sources and on battle honour boards, battles are written in all capitals, while actions are capitalised normally and surrounded by single quotation marks (CHESAPEAKE 1781 and 'Chesapeake' 1813).[7] Newer sources display battles with normal capitalisation, and italicise actions in the same way ships' names are italicised; both may or may not be contained in double quotation marks ("Chesapeake 1781" and "Chesapeake 1813"). The battle honours awarded to a ship are inherited by all subsequent warships of the same name.[8]
The earliest battle to be commemorated in the history of the British Indian Army was Plassey in 1757 which was awarded in 1829 vide Gazette of the Governor General No 43.
Oakleaf Shoulder Badge (The Calgary Highlanders, The Canadian Scottish Regiment (Princess Mary's) and The Royal Winnipeg Rifles), awarded for "Kitcheners' Wood" in April 1915. No battle honour had been granted and the units petitioned for a special badge.[4]
.mw-parser-output span.smallcaps{font-variant:small-caps}.mw-parser-output span.smallcaps-smaller{font-size:85%}Singh, SarbansBattle Honours of the Indian Army 1757 – 1971.(1993) Vision Books (New Delhi) ISBN 81-7094-115-6
In addition to battle honours, military units can be awarded collective military decorations and collective mentions-in-dispatches, leading eventually to the fourragère award.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Chronological Index of British and Imperial Battle Honours to 1945". Regiments.org. 5 December 2005. Archived from the original on 24 January 2008. Retrieved 8 December 2013.
As there is no order of precedence for battle honours, they are listed in chronological order,[2] either in a single list, or in multiple even numbers of columns, reading left to right, and top to bottom. On drums, the honours are listed on scrolls, usually with the cap badge central, and other unit devices present (such as a representation of a unit distinction or motto).
"United States Distinguished Unit Citation to D Company, Sixth Battalion, The Royal Australian Regiment"
"McGill University Contingent, CEF". Regiments.org. Archived from the original on 21 December 2007. Retrieved 8 December 2013.
^ "United States Distinguished Unit Citation to D Company, Sixth Battalion, The Royal Australian Regiment". Vietnam Veterans Association of Australia.
^ "McGill University Contingent, CEF". Regiments.org. Archived from the original on 21 December 2007. Retrieved 8 December 2013.
The honours for the First and Second World Wars were restricted in that only a certain number of honours (up to ten each for the First and Second World Wars) could be selected for emblazonment, that is appear on colours or drums. This was due to the large number of battle honours awarded.It is often the case that battle honours not carried on the colours (limited by space and design) will be emblazoned on the drum major's baldric.
Cook, Hugh. 1987. The Battle Honours of the British and Indian Armies, 1662–1982, Leo Cooper. ISBN 0-85052-082-7
Drums of the regimental band and the corps of drums/pipes and drums
^ a b Singh, Sarbans (1993) Battle Honours of the Indian Army 1757 – 1971. Vision Books (New Delhi) ISBN 81-7094-115-6
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Chronological Index of British and Imperial Battle Honours to 1945". Regiments.org. 5 December 2005. Archived from the original on 24 January 2008. Retrieved 8 December 2013.
DÉCISION N° 12350/SGA/DMPA/SHD/DAT relative aux inscriptions de noms de batailles sur les drapeaux et étendards des corps de troupe de l'armée de terre, du service de santé des armées et du service des essences des armées
The earliest recorded naval battle honour is ARMADA 1588, the defeat of the Spanish Armada at Gravelines by a combined British-Dutch fleet.[7] Because of the significant number of ships sunk during World War I and World War II, only three battle honours have been awarded for single-ship actions since the start of the 20th century: to the Town-class cruiser HMAS Sydney for sinking the German light cruiser SMS Emden during the Battle of Cocos in November 1914 ('Emden' 1914), to the Commonwealth warships involved in the pursuit and last battle of the German battleship Bismarck in May 1941 ('Bismarck' 1941), and to the Leander-class cruiser HMAS Sydney for the mutually destructive engagement with the German auxiliary cruiser Kormoran in November 1941 ('Kormoran' 1941).[7]
Deefholts, Margaret. "History's ghosts in Old Lucknow". Retrieved 8 December 2013.
Supporting corps/branches such as medical, service, ordnance, or transport do not currently receive battle honours. However, and uniquely the Royal Logistic Corps has five battle honours inherited from its previous transport elements, such as the Royal Waggon Train. Commonwealth artillery does not maintain battle honours as they carry neither colours nor guidons—though their guns by tradition are afforded many of the same respects and courtesies. However, both the Royal Artillery and Royal Engineers were in 1832 granted by King William IV the right to use the Latin "Ubique", meaning everywhere, as a battle honour. This is worn on the cap badge of both the Corps of Royal Engineers and the Royal Regiment of Artillery (but not the Royal Horse Artillery). Likewise the Royal Marines, although a colours-carrying service, was granted, along with the conventional battle honour of "Gibraltar", the "Great Globe itself"by King George IV for its very numerous battle honours around the world.
* = Direct or indirect reference to fount of honour is the accepted criterion for official distinctions
This page was last edited on 25 February 2023, at 05:04 (UTC).
In British and Commonwealth armies a unit's battle honours can normally be found engraved, painted or embroidered on:
The 2nd Battalion, Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry and the 3rd Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment received their awards for their actions at the Battle of Kapyong during the Korean War. Although their regiments carry the honour "Kapyong" as a whole, only these specific battalions are permitted to carry the PUC streamer that denotes the award by the United States and wear the ribbon on the uniform. D Company, 6th Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment were awarded their Presidential Unit Citation for their actions during the Battle of Long Tan in the Vietnam War. Although awarded to D Company, it is carried on the 6th Battalion's Colours and worn on the uniform of all members of the battalion. The PUC was awarded to the 1st Battalion, Gloucestershire Regiment for its actions at the Battle of Imjin River in 1951, with the tradition continued by its successor, the Royal Gloucestershire, Berkshire and Wiltshire Regiment, until its amalgamation into The Rifles.
The first battle honour to be awarded in the British Army was granted to the 15th Hussars for the Battle of Emsdorf in 1760. Thereafter, other regiments received battle honours for some of their previous engagements.
^ a b c d "DHH Volume 2, Part 1: Extant Commissioned Ships". Official Lineages. Directorate of History and Heritage, Canadian Forces. 7 July 2006. Archived from the original on 1 February 2014. Retrieved 8 January 2014.
A battle honour may be granted to infantry/cavalry regiments or battalions, as well as ships (see Naval battle honours below) and squadrons; they are rarely granted to sub-units such as companies, platoons and sections in the army. Battle honours are usually presented in the form of a name of a country, region, or city where the unit's distinguished act took place, usually together with the year when it occurred.
The Battles Nomenclature Committee advised operational Army Headquarters on the granting of battle honours. At the end of the war, the army received a report from the committee containing:
A detailed list of all theatres, battles, actions and engagements throughout the entire war for which regiments could be granted battle honours
Not every battle fought will automatically result in the granting of a battle honour. Conversely, a regiment or a battalion might obtain more than one battle honour over the course of a larger operation. For example, the 2nd Battalion of the Scots Guards were awarded two battle honours for their role in the Falklands War; "Tumbledown Mountain" specifically for the Battle of Mount Tumbledown, and "Falkland Islands 1982" for the overall conflict. Similarly, while in Korea, Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry earned both "Kapyong" (for the Battle of Kapyong) and "Korea 1951–1953" (for the overall war). Victory is not required to earn a battle honour: the Hong Kong Volunteer Defence Corps received the battle honour "Hong Kong" despite the defeat and capture of most of the force during the Japanese invasion of Hong Kong, while the cruiser HMAS Sydney was awarded the naval engagement honour "Kormoran 1941" after being sunk with all aboard by the German raider Kormoran.
^ "2nd Battalion, Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry". 1 May 2009. Archived from the original on 2 April 2010.
