Stubborn means having or showing dogged determination not to change one's attitude or position on something.
Citrus stubborn disease, a plant disease affecting species in the genus Citrus
Mr. Stubborn, a character on the children's television show The Mr. Men Show
Little Miss Stubborn, a character in the Little Miss series of books
This page was last edited on 5 November 2022, at 15:38 (UTC).
Something went wrong, but don’t fret — let’s give it another shot.
We’ve detected that JavaScript is disabled in this browser. Please enable JavaScript or switch to a supported browser to continue using twitter.com. You can see a list of supported browsers in our Help Center.
22 Oct: HMS Mauritius, (Corfu Channel incident), HMS Leander ;(Corfu Channel incident), HMS Saumarez (Corfu Channel incident), HMS Volage (Corfu Channel incident)
Ships of the Royal Navy: The Complete Record of all Fighting Ships of the Royal Navy
This page was last edited on 21 May 2022, at 06:47 (UTC).
Coordinates: .mw-parser-output .geo-default,.mw-parser-output .geo-dms,.mw-parser-output .geo-dec{display:inline}.mw-parser-output .geo-nondefault,.mw-parser-output .geo-multi-punct{display:none}.mw-parser-output .longitude,.mw-parser-output .latitude{white-space:nowrap}35°58.962′N 14°26.773′E﻿ / ﻿35.982700°N 14.446217°E﻿ / 35.982700; 14.446217
Stubborn also made an unsuccessful attack on a German convoy off the Follafjord, west of Namsos, Norway, and on 11 February 1944, she sank the German merchant Makki Faulbaum and torpedoed and damaged the German merchant Felix D. some 25 miles north-west of Namsos, Norway.She later made an unsuccessful attack on a German convoy of five ships off the Folda Fjord, Norway. Stubborn fired six torpedoes but none found their target. Stubborn was heavily damaged by the German escort ships which jammed her aft hydroplanes "hard-adive", flooded an internal tank and damaged one of her propellers. As a result of this, Stubborn fell to 400 feet and her Captain, Lt. A. A. Duff, RN, was forced to blow main ballast to get her to the surface. She broke the surface only to dive hard again to a depth of 500 feet - 200 feet deeper than her designed maximum depth. Eventually the Germans broke off the attack and Duff struck for home, considerably hampered by the damage sustained and further hampered when the rudder disconnected itself. Stubborn was met by the destroyers HMS Swift and HMS Meteor and was eventually towed home to Lerwick, with her crew acting as human "balance weights" to maintain the submarine on an even keel. She was then sent to Devonport for major repairs, where Lt. Cdr Alastair Mars saw her and described her thus:
30 Apr: Georgetown Victory, I-121, Ro-68, Ro-500, USS Solar, HMS Stubborn, HMAS Tolga
Stubborn survived the Second World War and was sunk on 30 April 1946 as an ASDIC target off Malta. The wreck is located about 3 nautical miles (5.6 km) north-east of St Paul’s Bay and sits upright at a depth of 57 metres (187 ft).
^ Mars, A, British Submarines At War 1939-1945, William Kimber & Co Ltd, 1971
1 Apr: Charles S. Haight, Ha-103, Ha-105, Ha-106, Ha-107, Ha-108, Ha-109, Ha-111, Ha-201, Ha-202, Ha-203, Ha-208, I-36, I-47, I-53, I-58, I-156, I-157, I-158, I-159, I-162, I-366, I-367, I-402, Ro-50
HMS Mauritius, (Corfu Channel incident), HMS Leander ;(Corfu Channel incident), HMS Saumarez (Corfu Channel incident), HMS Volage (Corfu Channel incident)
25 Jul: USS Apogon, USS Arkansas, USS LSM-60, USS Pilotfish, USS Saratoga, USS Skipjack
Stubborn was transferred, arriving in mid 1945, but had a distinguished career there before the war ended.She sank the Japanese patrol vessel Patrol Boat No.2 (the former destroyer Nadakaze) in the Java Sea. The survivors were ordered to be shot in the water due to suspicious behaviour. Before this order was carried out, Stubborn was forced to dive by a circling aircraft and the survivors were left alive.[2]She went on to sink a Japanese sailing vessel and an unidentified small Japanese vessel.[2]
8 May: HMS Orion (Corfu Channel incident), HMS Superb (Corfu Channel incident)
While on patrol in the Bay of Biscay, she fired torpedoes at a group of three German submarines (U-180, U-518, U-530) escorted by two destroyers. The torpedoes however missed their targets and the attack was not observed by the Germans.The two escorts were identified by Stubborn as Narvik-class destroyers. The German submarines were returning from patrol and were bound for Bordeaux.
Stubborn spent the war in home waters, operating off the Scandinavian coast, and in the Pacific Far East.
Charles S. Haight, Ha-103, Ha-105, Ha-106, Ha-107, Ha-108, Ha-109, Ha-111, Ha-201, Ha-202, Ha-203, Ha-208, I-36, I-47, I-53, I-58, I-156, I-157, I-158, I-159, I-162, I-366, I-367, I-402, Ro-50
one three-inch (76 mm) gun (QF 4-inch on later boats)
"I myself, then busy with the fitting-out of Thule, met Duff after arrival and examined Stubborn in the drydock. She gave the impression of a skeleton's chest; for her ribs protruded whilst between them, her steel plates had been pressed inwards to form concave curves, this bizarre effect providing unforgettable tribute to the workmanship of the men who built her."[1]
1 Jul: USS Anderson, USS Carlisle, USS Gilliam, USS Lamson, Sakawa
HMS Stubborn was an S-class submarine of the Royal Navy, and part of the Third Group built of that class.She was built by Cammell Laird and launched on 11 November 1942. So far she has been the only ship of the Royal Navy to bear the name Stubborn.
6 × forward 21 inch (533 mm) torpedo tubes, one aft
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Colledge, J. J.; Warlow, Ben (2006) [1969]. Ships of the Royal Navy: The Complete Record of all Fighting Ships of the Royal Navy (Rev. ed.). London: Chatham Publishing. ISBN 978-1-86176-281-8.
Mars, A, British Submarines At War 1939-1945, William Kimber & Co Ltd, 1971
As the name indicates, citrus stubborn disease affects citrus plants, most severely oranges (especially naval and mandarin varieties), grapefruit, and tangelo trees.[7] Lemon and lime are also affected, but much less severely.[8] CSD is an unusual case of a plant disease shared between a vector, weed, and unrelated crop.[2]: 8
^ a b c d e f g "Stubborn Disease of Citrus in California". ANR Blogs. Retrieved 2016-12-07.
Leafhoppers transmit citrus stubborn disease to weed host. George H. Kaloostian, George N. Oldfield, Edmond C. Calavan and Richard L. Blue, California Agriculture, September 1976, Volume 30, Number 9, pages 4-5, doi:10.3733/ca.v030n09p4
"New Perspectives on the Epidemiology of Citrus Stubborn Disease in California Orchards"
^ a b c d Mello, Alexandre. "EFFECT OF CITRUS STUBBORN DISEASE ON NAVEL ORANGE PRODUCTION IN A COMMERCIAL ORCHARD IN CALIFORNIA" (PDF). Italian Phytopathological Society.
Weller, Stephen C.; Ashton, Floyd M.; Ashton, Floyd M. (2002). Weed Science : Principles and Practices (4 ed.). New York: John Wiley & Sons. pp. xi+671. ISBN 0-471-27496-8. OCLC 51169076.
Mello, Alexandre. "EFFECT OF CITRUS STUBBORN DISEASE ON NAVEL ORANGE PRODUCTION IN A COMMERCIAL ORCHARD IN CALIFORNIA" (PDF). Italian Phytopathological Society.
Mello, Alexandre (May 2010). "New Perspectives on the Epidemiology of Citrus Stubborn Disease in California Orchards" (PDF). Plant Management Network.
New hosts of citrus stubborn disease. Oldfield G.N., Kaloostian G.H., Pierce H.D., Sullivan D.A., Calavan E.C. and Blue R.L., Citrograph, 1977, Volume 62, Number 10, pages 309-312 (abstract[permanent dead link])
^ a b c d "UC IPM: UC Management Guidelines for Stubborn Disease on Citrus". ipm.ucanr.edu. Retrieved 2016-12-07.
In addition, it is important to closely monitor the weeds in young orchards to ensure that they are not susceptible to Spiroplasma citri, and if susceptible ones appear, to remove them as soon as possible. [11]
"UC IPM: UC Management Guidelines for Stubborn Disease on Citrus". ipm.ucanr.edu. Retrieved 2016-12-07.
^ Occurrence of Spiroplasma citri in periwinkle in California. A.L. Granett, R.L. Blue, M.K. Harjung, E.C. Calavan, D.J. Gumpf, California Agriculture, volume 30, issue 3, pages 18-19, doi:10.3733/ca.v030n03p18
^ a b "Fact Sheet: Citrus stubborn disease (CSD) | Citrus Diseases". idtools.org. Retrieved 2016-12-07.
"Fact Sheet: Citrus stubborn disease (CSD) | Citrus Diseases". idtools.org. Retrieved 2016-12-07.
^ Spiroplasmas are the causal agents of citrus little-leaf disease. P. G. Markham, R. Townsend, M. Bar-Joseph, M. J. Daniels, A. Plaskitt and B. M. Meddins, Annals of Applied Biology, September 1974, Volume 78, Issue 1, pages 49–57, doi:10.1111/j.1744-7348.1974.tb01484.x
While not entirely quantifiable on a market scale, citrus stubborn disease causes significant enough problems to be a concern for citrus growers in terms of productivity and marketability.
Spiroplasma citri is transmissible through several insect vectors, namely the beet leafhopper. One effective measure against the beet leafhopper is planting trap plants, such as sugar beets, that the insect vector favor but are not susceptible to citrus stubborn disease nearby, in attempt to draw the disease-carrying insects away from the citrus plants.[12] To further increase the effectiveness a chemical component can be added by spraying insecticides on the trap plants, eliminating the insect vector and preventing the bacteria from reaching the citrus crop.[8]
Occurrence of Spiroplasma citri in periwinkle in California. A.L. Granett, R.L. Blue, M.K. Harjung, E.C. Calavan, D.J. Gumpf, California Agriculture, volume 30, issue 3, pages 18-19, doi:10.3733/ca.v030n03p18
^ New hosts of citrus stubborn disease. Oldfield G.N., Kaloostian G.H., Pierce H.D., Sullivan D.A., Calavan E.C. and Blue R.L., Citrograph, 1977, Volume 62, Number 10, pages 309-312 (abstract[permanent dead link])
Symptoms of Citrus Stubborn disease are most prominent in immature plants but still appear on established trees.[8] The primary symptom of Citrus Stubborn disease is the irregularity of fruit on the same tree. A tree with citrus stubborn disease will have fruits of differing sizes, shapes, and stages of maturity and typically lighter, smaller fruits than its healthy counterpart.[9]Affected fruits will often drop prior to maturity and often have a characteristic acorn-like shape, which is easily seen by cutting the fruit in half.[7] Coloration of the fruit is also affected. The blossom end remains green while the stem end is colored in affected fruits.[7] Farmers would most readily use these symptoms as indicators that their crop may have been infected with Spiroplasma citri.
"Citrus Diseases." Fact Sheet: Citrus Stubborn Disease (CSD) | Citrus Diseases. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Dec. 2016.
Temperate regions with limited seasonal rainfall, like in central California, Arizona, and the Mediterranean, are most affected by Citrus Stubborn disease.[10] California is the number one producer of fresh citrus fruit in the United States making citrus stubborn disease in this region an economically important disease for control.[11] Citrus stubborn initially rose to a major concern for the citrus industry in the 1980s and is, in recent years, becoming an increasingly problematic disease.[11]
On leaves, Spiroplasma citri manifests itself as light mottling similar to that of nutrient deficiency and a more vertical orientation.[10] Another indication of infection is bunchy growth caused by shortened internodes.[8] Healthy plants will have comparably more outstretched branches and a rounded appearance. A tree with Citrus Stubborn Disease will have a very low yield and the fruit it does yield will not be comparable to a healthy fruit. Small leaves and upright, bunchy growth of branches is common in infected plants, as is dieback and leafdrop.[8] However, Citrus stubborn does not affect canopy height, width, trunk diameter, and juice quality, regardless of the severity of the infection.[9]
Diagnosis can be difficult because the disease is not often severe enough to produce outwardly apparent symptoms.[7] In addition, when it is evident that a tree is diseased, the symptoms are very common and could be attributed to numerous other pathogens or environmental factors.[11] To truly confirm the presence of Spiroplasma citri it must be detected by PCR or a tissue culture with spiroplasmas must be produced.[11] It has been shown that PCR is the most effective diagnostic tool for citrus stubborn disease.[11]
^ a b c Weller, Stephen C.; Ashton, Floyd M.; Ashton, Floyd M. (2002). Weed Science : Principles and Practices (4 ed.). New York: John Wiley & Sons. pp. xi+671. ISBN 0-471-27496-8. OCLC 51169076.
"Stubborn Disease of Citrus in California". ANR Blogs. Retrieved 2016-12-07.
"UC IPM: UC Management Guidelines for Stubborn Disease on Citrus"
^ a b c d e f g Mello, Alexandre (May 2010). "New Perspectives on the Epidemiology of Citrus Stubborn Disease in California Orchards" (PDF). Plant Management Network.
The Citrus stubborn disease is a plant disease affecting species in the genus Citrus. Spiroplasma citri, a Mollicute bacterium species, is the causative agent of the disease.[1] It is present in the phloem of the affected plant. Originally discovered transmitted by several leafhoppers including Circulifer tenellus (beet leafhopper) and Scaphytopius nitridus in citrus-growing regions of California,[2]: 8  it is now spread by the same hoppers in Arizona and Circulifer haematoceps in the Mediterranean region.
Polymerase Chain Reaction-Based Detection of Spiroplasma citri Associated with Citrus Stubborn Disease. Raymond K. Yokomi, Alexandre F. S. Mello, Maria Saponari and Jacqueline Fletcher, Plant Disease, February 2008, Volume 92, Number 2, pages 253-260, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}doi:10.1094/PDIS-92-2-0253
"EFFECT OF CITRUS STUBBORN DISEASE ON NAVEL ORANGE PRODUCTION IN A COMMERCIAL ORCHARD IN CALIFORNIA"
This page was last edited on 29 April 2022, at 20:48 (UTC).
Citrus stubborn disease can be spread through grafting, so it is important to ensure that the mother tree is free of Spiroplasma citri before propagation. Also, trees should be obtained, if possible from areas where Spiroplasma citri is not viable to prevent bringing the pathogen into an orchard.[8]
The host most notably affected is sweet orange but the bacterium can also infect weeds such as periwinkle (Vinca rosea) and London rocket (Sisymbrium irio).[3][4][2]: 8  Yellowed plants of Chinese cabbage and pak-choi (Brassica rapa) can be infected by S. citri. In the wild, shortpod mustard (Hirschfeldia incana) infested by the beet leafhopper, Circulifer tenellus, can prove to be an important reservoir of infection. S. citri can also be transmitted to China aster (Callistephus chinensis), Shasta daisy (Leucanthemum × superbum), red clover (Trifolium pratense) and radish (Raphanus sativus) by the leafhopper Scaphytopius nitridus.[5] The bacterium has also been shown to experimentally infect white clover (Trifolium repens) using Euscelis incisa as a vector.[6]
Symptoms on citrus trees are variable but typically include small size with upright position. Fruits harvested from citrus trees with severe symptoms of citrus stubborn disease can be acorn-shaped or lopsided.
The most effective way to prevent citrus stubborn disease is to prevent Spiroplasma citri from reaching and infecting young, susceptible plants. This is best achieved through a variety of cultural practices.
^ Polymerase Chain Reaction-Based Detection of Spiroplasma citri Associated with Citrus Stubborn Disease. Raymond K. Yokomi, Alexandre F. S. Mello, Maria Saponari and Jacqueline Fletcher, Plant Disease, February 2008, Volume 92, Number 2, pages 253-260, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}doi:10.1094/PDIS-92-2-0253
While studies have reported different finding regarding juice quality, there seems to be a greater likelihood for the juice of citrus stubborn affected fruits to have a high citric acid concentration, making it too sour for use.[12] The mishappen and discolored fruit is unfavorable among consumers, making severely affected fruits unusable.
Older trees are much less susceptible to Spiroplasma citri, so it is most critical to be diligent in preventing infection while the tree is still maturing.[11] Trees under 6 years old that have citrus stubborn disease should be completely removed, as they will never be productive, and infected trees older than 6 should be individually evaluated and either have symptomatic parts removed or be completely replaced with a healthy plant.[8]
^ a b "Publication : USDA ARS". www.ars.usda.gov. Retrieved 2016-12-07.
Spiroplasmas are the causal agents of citrus little-leaf disease. P. G. Markham, R. Townsend, M. Bar-Joseph, M. J. Daniels, A. Plaskitt and B. M. Meddins, Annals of Applied Biology, September 1974, Volume 78, Issue 1, pages 49–57, doi:10.1111/j.1744-7348.1974.tb01484.x
^ Leafhoppers transmit citrus stubborn disease to weed host. George H. Kaloostian, George N. Oldfield, Edmond C. Calavan and Richard L. Blue, California Agriculture, September 1976, Volume 30, Number 9, pages 4-5, doi:10.3733/ca.v030n09p4
Trees severely affected by citrus stubborn disease have been shown to have reduced fruit production by 45-52%, as compared with their undiseased counterparts.[12] In addition, fruits produced by these trees have an 8-15% reduction in diameter.[12] This decrease in yield is very problematic if the fruit was intended for juice production as well as the marketability of the fruit itself.
^ "The Lumineers Chart History (Hot 100)". Billboard.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
^ Video Premiere: The Lumineers, 'Stubborn Love'. MTV Buzzworthy Blog (released February 7, 2013
^ Trust, Gary (January 13, 2015). "The Biggest Hot 100 Hits to Peak at Nos. 75-51". Billboard. Prometheus Global Media. Retrieved January 13, 2015.
^ "The Lumineers – Stubborn Love" (in Dutch). Ultratip.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
"Italiansinglecertifications – The Lumineers – Stubborn Love" (in Italian). Federazione Industria Musicale Italiana. Retrieved October 21, 2019. Select "2019" in the "Anno" drop-down menu. Select "Stubborn Love" in the "Filtra" field. Select "Singoli" under "Sezione".
"Britishsinglecertifications – Lumineers – Stubborn Love". British Phonographic Industry. Retrieved July 24, 2020.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Tutti i successi del 2013" (in Italian). Hit Parade Italia. Retrieved September 23, 2014.
^ "Alternative Songs: Year End 2013". Billboard. Retrieved December 13, 2013.
^ "Italiansinglecertifications – The Lumineers – Stubborn Love" (in Italian). Federazione Industria Musicale Italiana. Retrieved October 21, 2019. Select "2019" in the "Anno" drop-down menu. Select "Stubborn Love" in the "Filtra" field. Select "Singoli" under "Sezione".
^ "The Lumineers Chart History (Hot Rock & Alternative Songs)". Billboard.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
^ "Triple A Songs: 2013 (Year-End)". Billboard. Retrieved December 13, 2013.
This page was last edited on 28 November 2021, at 18:17 (UTC).
"The Lumineers Chart History (Canadian Hot 100)". Billboard.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
"The Lumineers Chart History (Rock Airplay)". Billboard.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
"Stubborn Love" is a song by American folk rock band the Lumineers. It was released in 2012 as the second single from their debut self-titled studio album.
^ "Hot Rock Songs: Year End 2013". Billboard. Retrieved December 13, 2013.
^ "The Lumineers – Stubborn Love" (in French). Ultratip.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
^ "The Lumineers Chart History (Canada Rock)". Billboard.Retrieved October 31, 2021.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Tutti i successi del 2013" (in Italian). Hit Parade Italia. Retrieved September 23, 2014.
^ "Americansinglecertifications – The Lumineers – Stubborn Love". Recording Industry Association of America.
^ "The Lumineers Chart History (Canadian Hot 100)". Billboard.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
"Americansinglecertifications – The Lumineers – Stubborn Love". Recording Industry Association of America.
^ "Chart Track: Week 15, 2013". Irish Singles Chart.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
Video Premiere: The Lumineers, 'Stubborn Love'. MTV Buzzworthy Blog (released February 7, 2013
"Alternative Songs: Year End 2013". Billboard. Retrieved December 13, 2013.
"Rock Airplay Songs: Year End 2013". Billboard. Retrieved December 21, 2014.
"The Lumineers Chart History (Canada Rock)". Billboard.Retrieved October 31, 2021.
"The Lumineers – Stubborn Love" (in Dutch). Ultratip.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
"The Lumineers Chart History (Hot Rock & Alternative Songs)". Billboard.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
^ "The Lumineers Chart History (Japan Hot 100)". Billboard.Retrieved March 19, 2015.
"The Biggest Hot 100 Hits to Peak at Nos. 75-51"
"The Lumineers Chart History (Japan Hot 100)". Billboard.Retrieved March 19, 2015.
"The Lumineers – Stubborn Love" (in French). Ultratip.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
"Chart Track: Week 15, 2013". Irish Singles Chart.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
"The Lumineers Chart History (Hot 100)". Billboard.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
"Hot Rock Songs: Year End 2013". Billboard. Retrieved December 13, 2013.
"Triple A Songs: 2013 (Year-End)". Billboard. Retrieved December 13, 2013.
^ "Britishsinglecertifications – Lumineers – Stubborn Love". British Phonographic Industry. Retrieved July 24, 2020.
^ "The Lumineers Chart History (Rock Airplay)". Billboard.Retrieved September 23, 2014.
^ "Rock Airplay Songs: Year End 2013". Billboard. Retrieved December 21, 2014.
^ "Canadiansinglecertifications – The Lumineers – Stubborn Love". Music Canada.
There are 2 music videos for "Stubborn Love". The first one released on October 3, 2012 is a collection of live performances and behind the scenes footage shot between April and August 2012 during the Lumineers Big Parade 2012 tour.[1] The 2nd one released on February 7, 2013 centers around a young daughter who is going with her mother as a result of her parents divorcing. As situations in their road trip go from gray and stormy to bright and sunny, the girl rolls down her window and smiles in the end of the video. The Lumineers themselves make a brief appearance as street performers.[2][3]
Trust, Gary (January 13, 2015). "The Biggest Hot 100 Hits to Peak at Nos. 75-51". Billboard. Prometheus Global Media. Retrieved January 13, 2015.
Little Miss Fabulous has an orange round-shaped body, and orange nose, and yellow hair that Miss Fabulous wears in a different style every day. Miss Fabulous wears turquoise platform high heels and carries a red handbag with a blue handle and a yellow star.
Little Miss Dotty is the 17th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Dotty is just plain dotty. Miss Dotty lives in Nonsenseland (where Mr. Silly and Mr. Nonsense live), and has some pretty dotty ideas of her own.
Little Miss Greedy has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Dodue (French), Doña Rechoncha (Spanish), Pàng Dūdū Xiǎojiě (胖嘟嘟小姐; Taiwan), Η Κυρία Φαγανούλα (Greek) and Unsere Rosi Rundlich (German).
Little Miss Splendid has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Beauté (French), Doña Presumida (Spanish), Xūróng Xiǎojiě (虛榮小姐; Taiwan), Meotjyeo Yang (멋져양; Korean) and Η Κυρία Ψηλομύτα (Greek).
Little Miss Star has also been published under the alternative titles of Madame Vedette (French), Doña Famosa (Spanish), Η Κυρία Διάσημη (Greek), Míngxīng Xiǎojiě (明星小姐; Taiwan) and Seuta Yang (스타양; Korean).
Little Miss Bad is the 32nd book in the Little Miss series. Miss Bad is a naughty and mischievous Little Miss character. One day, there was a Grand Contest, and this was to see who is the most mischievous of all.
Little Miss Late is the 11th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Late is late for everything, and can't find a job. Miss Late tries to work in a bank, but by the time Miss Late gets there the bank has closed. Miss Late tries to be a secretary for Mr. Uppity, but Mr. Uppity goes home late. Miss Late finally gets a job as a housemaid for Mr. Lazy, because Mr. Lazy does things at the wrong time.
Little Miss Fabulous was published as Madame Fabuleuse in French and Doña Fabulosa in Spanish.
Little Miss Inventor is the 38th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Inventor is as bright as a button. In fact, Miss Inventor is as bright as two buttons and can invent the most extraordinary things for her friends. But the challenge of inventing something for Mr. Rude has her temporarily stumped. There was also a contest that involved making a machine that would help Mr. Bump stop getting into accidents. The top inventions were in the book.
Find sources: "List of Little Miss characters" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Little Miss Dotty is published under the alternative titles of Little Miss Ditzy (USA), Madame Follette (French), Quèbān Xiǎojiě (雀斑小姐; Taiwan) and Η Κυρία Παλαβούλα (Greek).
Little Miss Fun is the 29th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Fun loves to have fun all day, every day. Little Miss Fun has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Boute-en-train (French), Mevrouwtje Pret (Dutch) and Η Κυρία Ξένοιαστη (Greek).
Little Miss Birthday is part of the Little Miss series. Little Miss Birthday loves birthdays just like her brother, Mr. Birthday. Little Miss Birthday has also been published under the alternative title of Madame Anniversaire (French).
Little Miss Late has been published under the alternative titles of Madame En Retard (French), Doña Tardona (Spanish), Unsere Uschi Unpünktlich (German), Mevrouwtje Te Laat (Dutch), Η Κυρία Αργοπορίδου (Greek), Chídào Xiǎojiě (遲到小姐; Taiwan) and Neujeo Yang (늦어양; Korean).
Little Miss Scatterbrain was also the subject of a PC CD-ROM learning game for children, called "The Adventures of Little Miss Scatterbrain". It was published in 2002 by E.M.M.E. Interactive SA and developed by Hyptique.
Little Miss Kind was part of the show "50 Years of Mr. Men".
Little Miss Shy is the 9th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Shy is blue with black hair, and has pink cheeks. Little Miss Shy is afraid of everything, and hardly goes out. Miss Shy grows her own food in the garden. One day Miss Shy receives an invitation to Mr. Funny's party, and keeps changing her mind about whether or not to go. Then Mr. Funny arrives and escorts her to the party; Miss Shy has fun and meets Mr. Quiet, who used to be shy like her.
Little Miss Sunshine is the 4th book in the Little Miss series by Roger Hargreaves. There was a king who lived in a castle in Miseryland. Little Miss Sunshine was on vacation. Miss Sunshine saw a sign saying, "This way to Miseryland", so Miss Sunshine went to Miseryland and saw a guard at the bridge door. Little Miss Sunshine gave the guard a big smile; the guard took her to see the King of Miseryland. Miss Sunshine had an idea, and Little Miss Sunshine and the king went back to her car. Miss Sunshine made a new sign saying, "Laughterland"; Miss Sunshine laughed, and the king laughed too.
Little Miss Christmas has a green triangle-shaped body, a round yellow nose, and red hair worn in ponytails with sprigs of holly. Miss Christmas wears red gloves and two tone red and white shoes. Her Mr. Men counterpart is her brother Mr. Christmas.
Little Miss Explorer is part of the books.Little Miss Explorer was made for London Heathrow Airport (LHR).
Little Miss Somersault is the 30th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Somersault is incredibly agile. When Miss Somersault goes for a walk, Miss Somersault cartwheels instead. Instead of going through the front door, Miss Somersault climbs onto the roof first. Instead of sitting in a chair while eating her lunch, Miss Somersault balances on the back of it. Miss Somersault jumps over Mr. Small's house, and talks on the telephone with one leg up. Miss Somersault gets the leaves off Mr. Worry's roof, but Mr. Worry has the ladder. Little Miss Somersault doesn't need a ladder to climb up on the roof. Mr. Skinny paints the roof of his house; Mr. Bump bumps into the ladder (causing the paint to spill) but Mr. Skinny is rescued by Miss Somersault. The next day, everyone has heard about her daring deeds. Mr. Uppity calls her on the phone about the umbrella stuck in the chimney, and expects her in five minutes. It takes no time to climb onto Mr. Uppity's roof and get onto the chimney, but Miss Somersault is afraid of heights. Mr. Tickle brings Miss Somersault back down, and looks for someone else to tickle. Someone talks to her on the phone about their hat which has blown off onto the roof, and her face turns pale because Miss Somersault does not want to climb, but it is actually Mr. Small. Being relieved, off she somersaults.
Little Miss Hug has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Câlin (French), Unsere Kelly Knuddel (German), Doña Abrazo (Spanish), Η κυρία Αγκαλίτσα (Greek), Mała Przylepa (Polish), ハグちゃん (Japanese), and גברת חיבוק (Hebrew).
Little Miss Sparkle is the 37th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Sparkle loves to dance and sparkled when Miss Sparkle danced even more. During a week, Miss Sparkle lost her sparkle and asks Mr. Silly to help. Because of his silliness, Miss Sparkle laughed more until Miss Sparkle was all better.
Little Miss Penny is one of the children of Mr. Thrifty and Mrs. Thrifty who is in the Mr. Spendy book.
Little Miss Princess is the 34th book in the Little Miss series. The book was published in spring 2011 to mark the 40th anniversary of the Mr. Men. Little Miss Princess lives in a big castle with turrets and a moat, and Little Miss Princess has people catering for her, but Little Miss Princess isn't rude and spoiled. Miss Princess is a kind and generous, good-hearted princess. One day, Miss Princess decides to help an injured Mr. Bump, but as you can imagine, Little Miss Princess isn't used to doing things herself, so everything doesn't quite go to plan. Little Miss Princess has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Princesse (French), Doña Princesa (Spanish) and Η κυρία Καλομαθημένη (Greek).
Little Miss Quick has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Vite-fait (French) and Η Κυρία Φουριόζα (Greek).
Little Miss Show-Off is part of the Little Miss series, and is formerly known as Little Miss Selfish. Little Miss Show-Off is green; Miss Show-off has a red nose, yellow shoes, blue gloves and a yellow, blue and pink hat. Miss Show-Off doesn't like to share anything with anyone. The only thing Miss Show-Off ever thinks about is herself (hence her two names).
Little Miss Pretty is part of the Little Miss series, and is formerly known as Little Miss Vain. Little Miss Pretty lives in Prettyville. Her beauty would make Little Miss Splendid jealous.
Little Miss Brilliant is part of the Little Miss series. Little Miss Brilliant is very intelligent. Little Miss Brilliant has also been published under the alternative title of Madame Géniale (French).
Little Miss Fickle is the 20th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Fickle always has trouble making up her mind. Miss Fickle tries to find a book, but does not do the job well.
Little Miss Carefree has also been published under the alternative titles Madame Tout-Va-Bien (French), Η Κυρία Αισιόδοξη (Greek).
Little Miss Energy was part of the show "50 Years of Mr. Men".
Little Miss Tidy is the 25th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Tidy loves to keep things neat and clean, and puts her things in boxes of any kind.
Miss Bossy appeared in the second season of The Mr. Men Show; her hat is positioned differently and her flower has no stem, so it is attached to the side of her hat instead. Miss Bossy has eyelashes like Little Miss Daredevil; her voice actresses are Alex Kelly (UK) and Cheryl Chase (credited as Sophie Roberts) (US).
Little Miss Hug is the 35th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Hug's favorite thing in the world is giving hugs, and Miss Hug is always on hand to give male and female characters a hug when they need it. Her extra special arms make her hugs extra special. Her catchphrase is "Everyone needs a hug."
Little Miss Cawaii was a Little Miss character who debuted in Japan sometime around 2011. Kawaii (misspelt "Cawaii") is the Japanese word for "cute".
Little Miss Tiny is the 5th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Tiny isn't just small, Miss Tiny's tiny. Little Miss Tiny is tinier than Mr. Small. Little Miss Tiny is picked on because Miss Tiny is so small. The story begins when Little Miss Tiny wakes up, exits the mouse hole, and explores outdoors. Miss Tiny gets frightened by the large animals but Mr. Strong can hear her, and rescues her.
Little Miss Bossy appears under the titles Madame Autoritaire (French), Doña Mandona (Spanish), Η Κυρία Αυταρχική (Greek), Bàdào Xiǎojiě (霸道小姐; Taiwan), Ujjul Yang (우쭐양; Korean) and Menina Mandona (Portuguese).
Little Miss Somersault has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Acrobate (French), Doña Voltereta (Spanish), Η Κυρία Λαστιχένια (Greek), Fān Jīndǒu Xiǎojiě (翻筋斗小姐; Taiwan) and Jaejuneomgi Yang (재주넘기양; Korean).
Little Miss Busy is the 22nd book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Busy is a hyperactive Little Miss character and Miss Busy always has something to do. Every time Miss Busy needed a rest, and there was a loud thump (being the sound of her falling over backwards onto the bed). Miss Busy then went on a holiday, which Mr. Nonsense thought about.
Little Miss Chatterbox is the 16th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Chatterbox talks a lot, just like her brother, Mr. Chatterbox. Miss Chatterbox gets fired every time she works at a job. Miss Chatterbox then gets a job as a telephone worker who tells the time every second.
Little Miss Bossy is the 1st book in the Little Miss series by Roger Hargreaves. Little Miss Bossy is very bossy (hence her name) and Miss Bossy is as rude as Mr. Uppity, so Miss Bossy is given a pair of boots which have a mind of their own; they don't listen to her, because Miss Bossy is too bossy.
She was phased out after Season 1 due to Chorion's dislike of the character (though a statue of her appeared in the Season 2 episode, "Trees") however, she did appear in a few books that were published after the series ended.
^ "LITTLE MISS BABY SPICE GIRLS BOOK". mrmen.com. Retrieved 22 March 2021.
Little Miss Hug has a pink heart-shaped body and darker pink hair. Miss Hug wears red shoes with white trim and has a red bow and daisies in her hair. Little Miss Hug was the first heart-shaped character.
Little Miss Prim is part of the Little Miss series. Little Miss Prim is always proper. Miss Prim is never out of character, and feels lost without her purse.
Little Miss Sparkle has been published under the alternative titles Madame Lumineuse (French), Doña Luminosa (Spanish), and Η κυρία Λαμπερή (Greek).
Little Miss Splendid is the 10th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Splendid lives in a mansion with a golden bathtub, and thinks Miss Splendid is better than everyone else. When Miss Splendid goes to town and sees a new hat in a store window that Miss Splendid thinks Miss Splendid simply must have, Miss Splendid buys it. When Miss Splendid is walking home and her friends ask her if Miss Splendid wants to take the bus, Miss Splendid refuses – but then it starts to rain, and then her new hat gets ruined.
Little Miss Tidy has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Range-tout (French), Zhěngqí Xiǎojiě (整齊小姐; Taiwan) and Η Κυρία Τακτική (Greek).
Little Miss Prim has also been published under the alternative titles of Madame Collet-Monté (French) and Η Kυρια Καθωσπρεπει (Greek).
"LITTLE MISS GINGER SPICE GIRLS BOOK". mrmen.com. Retrieved 22 March 2021.
Little Miss Greedy is the 13th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Greedy has the same appetite as her cousin, Mr. Greedy, and has a really large breakfast. Miss Greedy also goes to Mr. Greedy's birthday party.
Little Miss Scatterbrain has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Tete-en-l'air (French), Doña Despistada (Spanish), Η Κυρία Ξεμυαλισμένη (Greek), Míhú Xiǎojiě (迷糊小姐; Taiwan) and Menina Distraída (Portuguese).
Little Miss Curious is the 28th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Curious wants to know everything. At the library, Miss Curious wanted a book about very curious things, though Miss Curious didn't get one. Miss Curious later ran off. Do you know where Miss Curious ran to? No; we are all very curious about that.
In the US and UK versions Miss Calamity was voiced by Prudence Alcott and Aline Mowat, respectively. In the French version Miss Calamity was called Madame Calamité, and in the Portuguese version Miss Calamity was called Menina Calamidade.
Little Miss Carefree along with Mr. Worry appeared in an InterCity advert.
Little Miss Naughty has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Canaille (French), Doña Traviesilla (Spanish), Unsere Ulla Ungezogen (German), Mevrouwtje Stout (Dutch), Η Κυρία Ατακτούλα (Greek), Jangnan Yang (장난양; Korean), Táoqì Xiǎojiě (淘氣小姐; Taiwan) and Menina Marota (Portuguese).
Little Miss Waste Less is a special Little Miss created in a collaboration between Mr. Men and Ecover to promote environmental education. Her book was released 2 December 2022.
Little Miss Brainy has a blue oval-shaped body, a blue triangle-shaped nose, and straight yellow hair with a red bow on top of her head.
In the second season of The Mr. Men Show, Little Miss Curious kept her looks. Her bow resembles Little Miss Whoops' and her shape is changed from oval to square. Her voice actresses are Cheryl Chase (credited as Sophie Roberts) and Claire Morgan, though her only speaking appearance was in "Trees".
Little Miss Christmas has also been published under the alternative titles of Madame Noël (French), Doña Navidad (Spanish) Unsere Weig Weihnachten (German), Η κυρία Χριστουγεννούλα (Greek), Menina Natal (Portuguese) and Lille Frøken Jul (Danish).
Little Miss Greedy was originally published under the title of Little Miss Plump; following Hargreaves' death, the name was changed. Perhaps, it was due to fears that "plump" was too offensive. Part of the story was also altered to fit with the change.
Little Miss Neat has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Proprette (French), Doña Ordenada (Spanish), Unsere Sofie Säuberlich (German), Η Κυρία Καθαρή (Greek), Zhěngjié Xiǎojiě (整潔小姐; Taiwan) and Kkalkkeum Yang (깔끔양; Korean).
Little Miss Helpful has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Catastrophe (French), Mevrouwtje Behulpzaam (Dutch), Doña Servicial (Spanish), Unsere Hille Hilfsbereit (German), Η Κυρία Εξυπηρετική (Greek), Doum Yang (도움양; Korean), Rèxīn Xiǎojiě (熱心小姐; Taiwan) and Menina Prestável (Portuguese).
Little Miss Fickle has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Indécise (French), Unsere Ute Unentschieden (German), Juffertje Twijfel (Dutch), Shànbiàn Xiǎojiě (善變小姐; Taiwan), Byeondeok Yang (변덕양; Korean) and Η Κυρία Αναποφάσιστη (Greek).
Little Miss Tiny has also been published under the titles Madame Petite (French), Doña Menudita (Spanish), Unsere Dora Däumling (German), Η Κυρία Τοσοδούλα (Greek), Línglóng Xiǎojiě (玲瓏小姐; Taiwan) and Bamtol Yang (밤톨양; Korean).
In the 2008 TV series, The Mr. Men Show, Miss Naughty kept her purple color and oval body but now had curly pink hair, a dark-fuchsia nose, pink rosy cheeks (emphasizing her character trait) and her bow was a lighter shade of green. Her catchphrase was, "Sometimes I just can't help myself". Occasionally, her pranks backfire on her. Miss Naughty has a Romanian accent in the US and a Bristol accent in the UK. In the US and UK versions, Miss Naughty is voiced by Alicyn Packard, Jo Wyatt (season 1) and Teresa Gallagher (season 2).
Little Miss Twins has also been published under the titles of Madame Double (French), Doñas Dobles (Spanish), SSangdung-i Yang (쌍둥이양; Korean), Shuāngbāotāi Xiǎojiě (雙胞胎小姐; Taiwan) and H Κυρία Διδυμούλα (Greek).
"LITTLE MISS BABY SPICE GIRLS BOOK". mrmen.com. Retrieved 22 March 2021.
Little Miss Helpful is the 7th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Helpful tries to help everyone, but ends up making everything worse. Miss Helpful tries to tie Mr. Tall's shoelaces, and ends up tying both shoes together. Then Miss Helpful tries to help Mr. Happy when Mr. Happy is sick by getting the cleaning supplies, but her head gets stuck in the bucket and Miss Helpful is trapped in the refrigerator. Mr. Happy tries to pull the bucket off Miss Helpful's head, only to have her go flying into the lake.
Little Miss Carefree is part of the Little Miss series. Little Miss Carefree has a perfect life.
Little Miss Careful also appears in the book Little Miss Curious.
Little Miss Lucky has appears under the titles Madame Chance (French), Doña Suerte (Spanish), Η Κυρία Τυχερούλα (Greek), Haeng-un Yang (행운양; Korean) and Xìngyùn Xiǎojiě (幸運小姐; Taiwan).
Miss Brave is Madame Courageuse in French and Doña Valiente in Spanish.
Little Miss Daredevil is a new Little Miss character created for The Mr. Men Show. Little Miss Daredevil loves to go to extremes (and until Little Miss Bossy was added in season two, was unique in being the first Little Miss with eyelashes). Miss Daredevil loves fast cars, boats, bicycles and rockets; she even owns a collection of airplanes. On the comical side, her antics end up harming Mr. Quiet (and Miss Calamity once) in some way, and Mr. Quiet is almost always the guinea pig for her experiments. In the episode "Game Shows", Little Miss Daredevil had her own game show called I Dare You!. Her orange hair is mostly hidden underneath her crash helmet but is briefly seen in "Gifts".
Little Miss Yes is part of the Little Miss series. Unlike Mr. No, Miss Yes always agrees with everyone on everything.
Little Miss Whoops is the 33rd of the Little Miss series. Little Miss Whoops goes to visit her brother, Mr. Bump. Unfortunately, disasters happen.
Little Miss Baby is part of the Little Miss Spice Girls series. The character is based on Baby Spice of the pop group Spice Girls.[1]
Little Miss Twins is the 15th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Twins do everything in pairs, and say their last words twice. Miss Twins live in Twoland. Little Miss Twins were inspired by Roger Hargreaves' twin daughters.
Little Miss Scatterbrain is the 12th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Scatterbrain is the least intelligent woman in the world – even less intelligent than Mr. Dizzy.
Little Miss Quick is the 23rd book in the Little Miss series. Like Mr. Rush, Little Miss Quick is always in a hurry and did not even have time to finish tying a bow in her hair. Miss Quick does everything very carelessly around town.
This page was last edited on 17 March 2023, at 20:37 (UTC).
Little Miss Calamity was a new Little Miss character created for The Mr. Men Show. Little Miss Calamity was almost always in trouble. Usually the trouble started with some normal activity, which invariably went terribly wrong. Her catchphrase was "What a calamity!"
"LITTLE MISS SPORTY SPICE GIRLS BOOK". mrmen.com. Retrieved 22 March 2021.
Little Miss Giggles has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Risette (French), Doña Risitas (Spanish), Unsere Inge Immerfroh (German), Mevrouwtje Giechel (Dutch), Xiàoxīxī xiǎojiě (笑嘻嘻小姐; Taiwan), Useum Yang (웃음양; Korean), Η Κυρία Χαχανούλα (Greek) and Menina Risonha (Portuguese).
Little Miss Chatterbox appears under the titles Madame Bavarde (French), Doña Charlatana (Spanish), Unsere Polly Plaudertasche (German), Mevrouwtje Kletskous (Dutch), Láodāo Xiǎojiě (嘮叨小姐; Taiwan), Suda Yang (수다양; Korean), Η Κυρία Φλύαρη (Greek), גברת מדברת (Hebrew) and Menina Tagarela (Portuguese).
Little Miss Yes has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Oui (French), Η Κύρια Ναι (Greek).
Little Miss Prudence is one of the children of Mr. Thrifty and Mrs. Thrifty who is in the Mr. Spendy book.
Little Miss Contrary appears under the titles Madame Contraire (French), Xiāngfǎn Xiǎojiě (相反小姐; Taiwan) and Η Κυρία Αντίθετη (Greek).
Little Miss Star is the 19th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Star wants to be popular more than anything. Miss Star goes to see a man (we can only see his long legs; it is later revealed to be Roger Hargreaves), and the next day Miss Star walks past a shop window and sees her book (Little Miss Star, by Roger Hargreaves) in the window. This is the second Little Miss/Mr. Men book to break the fourth wall (the first was Mr. Small).
Little Miss Valentine represents the holiday Valentine's Day. Miss Valentine has a red heart-shaped body, a blue nose, freckles, and red hair worn in braided pigtails with yellow bows. Little Miss Valentine is the only heart-shaped character aside from Little Miss Hug.
Little Miss Voyager is a mascot for LeSportsac in 2017.
Like Little Miss Loud, Miss Show-Off appears in the book Mr. Brave.Her French name is translated to Little Miss Me-I.
Little Miss Whoops has also appears under the titles Madame Malchance (French), Doña Pupas (Spanish), and Menina Disparate (Portuguese). Miss Whoops was planned to be the last Little Miss character, but it actually wasn't, and Little Miss Princess appeared.
^ "LITTLE MISS GINGER SPICE GIRLS BOOK". mrmen.com. Retrieved 22 March 2021.
Little Miss Busy-Body is part of the Little Miss series. Miss Busy-Body has also been published under the alternative titles of Madame Casse-Pieds (French) and Η Κυρία Ενοχλητική (Greek).
Little Miss Brainy appears under the titles Madame Je-sais-tout (French), Doña Inteligente (Spanish), Ttokttok Yang (똑똑양; Korean), Η Κυρία Σοφή (Greek).
Little Miss Stubborn has also been published under the titles of Madame Têtue (French), Doña Cabezota (Spanish), Η Κυρία Πεισματάρα (Greek), Gùzhí Xiǎojiě (固執小姐; Taiwan), Gojibse Yang (고집세양; Korean) and Menina Teimosa (Portuguese).
Little Miss Wise has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Sage (French), Doña Sensata (Spanish), Η Κυρία Μυαλωμένη (Greek), Seulgi Yang (슬기양; Korean), and Zhìhuì Xiǎojiě (智慧小姐; Taiwan).
Little Miss Giggles is the 14th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Giggles is blue with freckles, a yellow nose, red hair and yellow barrettes. Little Miss Giggles can't stop giggling; Miss Giggles giggles so much that Miss Giggles makes everyone else giggle too. Little Miss Giggles seems to have a connection with Mr. Funny and Mr. Happy. Once during her daily walk Miss Giggles loses her giggle; Miss Giggles meets Mr. Happy, and they go to Dr. Makeyouwell. To solve the problem, Mr. Happy gives Little Miss Giggles a "giggle".
Miss Giggles appeared in The Mr. Men Show in season two; Miss Giggles was voiced by Rebecca Forstadt (credited as Reba West) in the US version and Claire Morgan in the UK. Miss Giggles looked exactly as she did in the books (except for being a darker shade of blue), and sometimes her giggling got out of control.
Little Miss Trouble is the 6th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Trouble is a prankster like Mr. Mischief. Miss Trouble uses Mr. Uppity and Mr. Clever to trick Mr. Small, and Mr. Small gets two unnecessary black eyes. Mr. Small talks to Dr. Makeyouwell; Mr. Small uses Mr. Tickle and Mr. Bump to trick Little Miss Trouble. They tickle and bump her, and after that, Miss Trouble gets a taste of her own medicine.
Little Miss Brave is the 39th book in the Little Miss series by Roger. Miss Brave is one of the two characters voted to become an official character by the public. Miss Brave is fearless in the face of danger and proud to stand up for what Miss Brave believes in. Little Miss Brave is not afraid to speak out and her inner strength and confidence is inspiring, particularly for Little Miss Shy. Will Miss Brave give her the courage to challenge expectations too?
Little Miss Neat is the 3rd book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Neat is as neat as two pins, and lives in Twopin Cottage. When Miss Neat goes on holiday, Mr. Muddle comes to visit her empty house. Mr. Muddle makes a cup of tea, putting everything back in the wrong place. When Little Miss Neat comes home Miss Neat can't find anything, and when Miss Neat sits in a chair Miss Neat is pricked by forks, knives, and spoons that Mr. Muddle placed there. Hargreaves tells the reader, "I don't think Little Miss Neat will be taking a holiday next year. Do you?".
Little Miss Nobody is a character who appears in Little Miss Stella's book. Miss Nobody appears to be similar to Mr. Nobody.
Little Miss Sparkle has a yellow star-shaped body with white sparkles, freckles, and a pink nose. Miss Sparkle wears a blue bow and pink shoes.
Little Miss Shy is also published under the alternative titles of Madame Timide (French), Doña Tímida (Spanish), Unsere Susi Schüchtern (German), Η Κυρία Ντροπαλή (Greek), Hàixiū Xiǎojiě (害羞小姐; Taiwan) and Bukkeureom Yang (부끄럼양; Korean).
Little Miss Loud is part of the Little Miss series. Little Miss Loud lives in Loudland and, like Mr Noisy, Miss Loud is very loud indeed.Little Miss Loud has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Tintamarre (French) and Η Κυρία Φωνακλού (Greek).Like Little Miss Show-Off, Miss Loud appears in the book Mr. Brave.Her former name is Little Miss Laugh.
The following is a list of Little Miss characters from the children's book series by Roger Hargreaves, also adapted into the children's television programme The Mr. Men Show. Books one (Little Miss Bossy) to thirty (Little Miss Somersault) were written and illustrated by Hargreaves, and the remainder by his son, Adam Hargreaves.
Little Miss Miracle was a Little Miss character used for Miracle beauty cream.
Little Miss Scatterbrain was also released as a follow-along audio book, featuring a show-tune-style musical number at the end.
Little Miss Pretty has a blue body, a yellow nose, curly yellow hair, and pink cheeks. Miss Pretty wears silver shoes, gloves, a silver bow, and carries a matching handbag.
Little Miss Valentine is part of the Little Miss series. It's Little Miss Valentine's favorite time of year—Valentine's Day! But as Miss Valentine writes and delivers cards to her Mr. Men and Little Miss friends, nothing goes as planned. Before long, Miss Valentine and her friends realize that all they need is their friendship and love for each other.
^ "LITTLE MISS SCARY SPICE GIRLS BOOK". mrmen.com. Retrieved 22 March 2021.
Little Miss Careful has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Prudente (French), Η Κυρία προσεκτική (Greek).
Little Miss Tidy has a yellow round-shaped body and brown hair in worn pigtails with blue bows. Miss Tidy wears fuchsia high heels and carries a fuchsia and blue striped handbag.
Little Miss Scary has also been published under the alternative title of Madame Terreur (French), Doña Bú (Spanish), and Menina Susto (Portuguese).
Little Miss Naughty is the 2nd book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Naughty loves to play practical jokes. Miss Naughty awakens one day, thinking it looks like a good day for being naughty. Miss Naughty knocks Mr. Uppity's hat off his head, breaks Mr. Clever's glasses, and strips Mr. Bump of his bandages (placing them on Mr. Small). The Mr. Men hold a meeting to decide what to do. Mr. Small meets with Mr. Impossible (who can make himself invisible); each time Little Miss Naughty tries to do something naughty, Mr. Impossible tweaks her nose and it cures Little Miss Naughty of her naughtiness.
Little Miss Bad appears under the titles Madame Farceuse (French), Doña Malota (Spanish).
Little Miss Inventor also appears in the book "Little Miss Inventor and the Robots", with her as the star.
Little Miss Stella is part of the Little Miss series of books. Miss Stella is based on a real person: Stella McCartney, a fashion designer and daughter of rock star Paul McCartney and the late Linda McCartney. The book was produced in a limited edition of 1000 books as a fashion-show invitation. Can Little Miss Stella help Little Miss Nobody be somebody?
Little Miss Brave is blueish-green with purple hair and a red hairband.
Little Miss Pretty has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Coquette (French) and Η Κυρία Κοκέτα (Greek).
Little Miss Show-Off has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Moi-Je (French) and Η Kυρία Εγώ (Greek).
Little Miss Ginger is part of the Little Miss Spice Girls series. The character is based on Ginger Spice of the pop group Spice Girls.[2]
Little Miss Curious is published under the alternative titles of Madame Pourquoi (French), Doña Curiosa (Spanish), Η Κυρία Περίεργη (Greek), Hàoqí Xiǎojiě (好奇小姐; Taiwan) and Hogisim Yang (호기심양; Korean).
Little Miss Sunshine also stars in Little Miss Sunshine and the Wicked Witch, which was a 2006 special edition book, Little Miss Sunshine keeps her smile, which was also a 2006 special edition book, and appears in numerous other Mr Men books.
Little Miss Christmas is part of the Little Miss series and the Mr. Men & Little Miss Celebrations series. Little Miss Christmas loves Christmas, like her brother.
Little Miss Busy appears under the titles Madame Boulot (French), Doña Ocupada (Spanish), Η Κυρία Εργατική (Greek), and Mánglù Xiǎojiě (忙碌小姐; Taiwan).
Little Miss Sunshine has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Bonheur (French), Doña Sonrisas (Spanish), Unsere Sonja Sonnenschein (German), Mevrouwtje Zonnestraal (Dutch), Η Κυρία Γελαστούλα (Greek), Lèguān Xiǎojiě (樂觀小姐; Taiwan), Balga Yang (밝아양; Korean) and Menina Alegria (Portuguese).
Little Miss Fabulous is the 36th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Fabulous has the most fabulous hair, which Miss Fabulous wears in the most fabulous styles. Everywhere Miss Fabulous goes, Miss Fabulous sets new fashion trends! Not even the envious Little Miss Splendid can rain on her parade. Little Miss Fabulous proves that having good style is all about confidence—and just a bit of creativity!
In the 2008 TV series, The Mr. Men Show, Little Miss Scary kept her looks, except one of her spikes is gone and Miss Scary is darker red. She is a regular character. She loves fear, has her own television show, Miss Scary's Late Night Scare Fest, and is assisted by Mr. Bounce. Her house is a haunted house in the middle of the woods. Miss Scary has a collection of assorted masks (which are modified in season two) which she uses to scare the other Mr. Men and Little Misses, although they can frighten her as well. Miss Scary has a scary snore (as seen in the episode, "Sleep"). Little Miss Scary snorts when Miss Scary laughs. Miss Scary is also a fairy in some episodes. In the US and UK versions, Miss Scary is voiced by Susan Balboni and Jo Wyatt (Series 1) and Alex Kelly (Series 2).
Miss Energy is named Madame Energie in French and Doña Energía in Spanish.
Little Miss Inventor has a yellow round-shaped body, a blue nose, and green curly hair with tools and pencils in it. Miss Inventor wears glasses.
"LITTLE MISS SCARY SPICE GIRLS BOOK". mrmen.com. Retrieved 22 March 2021.
Little Miss Fashion is part of the "A Walk in Fashion" collab created by Michael Lau. Miss Fashion and Mr. Walk form the "Fashion Walk" together.
She also appears in an activity book alongside Hello Kitty called Little Miss Hug and Hello Kitty: Best Friends.
Little Miss Chatterbox is a recurring character in the 2008 TV series The Mr. Men Show. Miss Chatterbox keeps her looks and, as usual, Miss Chatterbox never shuts up. Miss Chatterbox annoys Mr. Grumpy, Mr. Stubborn and Mr. Rude with her talking. Her house is on top of a hill, and shaped like a telephone. In the US and UK versions, Miss Chatterbox is voiced by Katie Leigh and Teresa Gallagher respectively.
In the US and UK versions, Miss Daredevil is voiced by Katie Leigh and Teresa Gallagher respectively. In the French version Miss Daredevil is called Madame Supersonique, and in the Portuguese version Miss Daredevil is called Menina Destemida.
Little Miss Lucky is the 18th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Lucky lives in Horseshoe Cottage, on top of a hill. Miss Lucky settles in bed with a book Miss Lucky has bought. Then Miss Lucky hears a knock at the door, and goes downstairs to answer it. Miss Lucky gets locked out of the house, a gust of wind blows her off her feet, and Miss Lucky lands on a haystack. However, a tree starts chasing her. Miss Lucky then wakes up to find out that it was all a dream, and that is why her story's called Little Miss Lucky.
Little Miss Scary is the 31st book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Scary enjoys scaring people, especially Mr. Jelly. However, Miss Scary has not reckoned with Mr. Jelly's friend, Mr. Noisy.
Little Miss Wise is the 24th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Wise is always thinking. Miss Wise is wise as an owl, or possibly two owls. Being so wise and sensible means that Little Miss Wise brushes her teeth every day, makes her bed every day, tidies her house every day, and does lots of other wise and sensible things. If you are as wise as Little Miss Wise, you will know just what kind of other things Miss Wise does; among them, Little Miss Wise goes for a walk every day.
Little Miss Thrifty (Mrs. Thrifty) is part of the Mr. Spendy book and is the wife of Mr. Thrifty.
^ "LITTLE MISS SPORTY SPICE GIRLS BOOK". mrmen.com. Retrieved 22 March 2021.
Little Miss Trouble has been published under the alternative titles of Madame Chipie (French), Doña Problemas (Spanish), Unsere Frieda Frech (German), Η Κυρία Ανακατωσούρα (Greek), Golchi Yang (골치양; Korean) and Xiǎo Máfan Xiǎojiě (小麻煩小姐; Taiwan).
Little Miss Inventor has been published under the alternative titles Madame Invention (French), Doña Inventora (Spanish), Η κυρία Εφευρετική (Greek), and גברת ממציאה (Hebrew).
Little Miss Scary is part of the Little Miss Spice Girls series. The character is based on Scary Spice of the pop group Spice Girls.[3]
Little Miss Jealous is part of the Little Miss series. Little Miss Jealous is jealous of everything and everyone.
Little Miss Careful is part of the Little Miss series. Little Miss Careful is always cautious, and looks before Miss Careful leaps.
Little Miss Stubborn is the 27th book in the Little Miss series. She is the most stubborn character of all in the Mr. Men series. Sometimes it was good for Little Miss Stubborn to be stubborn.
In the 2008 TV series, The Mr. Men Show, Little Miss Helpful had a makeover. Miss Helpful kept her personality, color and oval body; however, the pigtails replaced her mini-buns, Miss Helpful had green bows on her newly strawberry blonde hair and wore a green fanny pack. Her shoes were changed (similar to Miss Chatterbox's, but green), and her nose changed from yellow to pink. Her catchphrase was, "Just trying to be helpful!" Unlike her print character Miss Helpful actually gives helpful information, but it is sometimes misleading or told at the wrong time. Miss Helpful also causes pain to other clumsy Mr. Men and Little Misses such as Little Miss Calamity, Mr. Bump, Little Miss Whoops, and even Mr. Quiet. Little Miss Helpful speaks with a Texan accent in the US dub and a Neutral English accent in the UK dub. In the US and UK versions, Miss Helpful is voiced by Katie Leigh, Jo Wyatt (season 1) and Emma Tate (season 2).
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "List of Little Miss characters" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Little Miss Brainy is the 26th book in the Little Miss series. Little Miss Brainy always has something smart to say, but her brains can get her into tricky situations sometimes. A lot of Mr. Men were coming, and they asked questions to her, which Miss Brainy answered.
Little Miss Sporty is part of the Little Miss Spice Girls series. The character is based on Sporty Spice of the pop group Spice Girls.[4]
Little Miss Contrary has an orange round body, an orange round nose, and straight yellow hair. Miss Contrary wears glasses and a blue bow on the top of her head.
Little Miss Gap is a female character that is based on the store GAP.
Homero Cárdenas Guillén (1966–2014?), Mexican suspected drug lord, one of whose aliases was "El Majadero" ("The Stubborn One")
William I, Count of Burgundy (1020–1087), also Count of Mâcon
Louis X of France (1289–1316), King of France and King of Navarre
Thorkell the Stubborn, in Scandinavian sagas the slayer of Veborg, a shieldmaiden
This page was last edited on 30 August 2022, at 09:42 (UTC).
Stubborn means having or showing dogged determination not to change one's attitude or position on something.
Citrus stubborn disease, a plant disease affecting species in the genus Citrus
Mr. Stubborn, a character on the children's television show The Mr. Men Show
Little Miss Stubborn, a character in the Little Miss series of books
This page was last edited on 5 November 2022, at 15:38 (UTC).
Kelly, S.F. (January 1988), Idle Hands Clenched Fists, Spokesman Books, ISBN 0-85124-446-7
^ Boumphrey, Ian & Marilyn (1981), Yesterday's Wirral, ISBN 0-9507255-1-X
"Wirral's Birkenhead High School Academy told to cater for the poorest"
The nearest airport is Liverpool John Lennon Airport (formerly known as Speke Airport), about 8 miles (13 km) from Birkenhead. Manchester Airport is approximately 40 mi (64 km) away. Other nearby aviation facilities include Hawarden Airport and RAF Woodvale. Former airfields in the area include RAF Hooton Park and Bidston Aerodrome.[54]
^ "Birkenhead North End Cycling Club Olympians". Archived from the original on 8 October 2007. Retrieved 18 February 2007.
Dunn, Justin (3 March 2009). "1,100 gather for Graham McKenna's funeral". Wirral Globe. Retrieved 11 December 2020.
^ The Liverpool Welsh, BBC Wales, 7 January 2008, retrieved 14 January 2008
^ a b "Station Name: Birkenhead Dock". Disused Stations. Retrieved 3 March 2016.
McDonough, Tony (27 March 2015). "Mersey to Belfast ferry operator close to completing £6m upgrade on Irish Sea fleet". Liverpool Echo. Retrieved 7 March 2016.
Religion in Birkenhead dates back to 1150 when Hamon de Masci founded Birkenhead Priory for the Benedictine order.
"Station Name: Birkenhead Grange Lane". Disused Stations. Retrieved 7 March 2016.
A fairly detailed description of the town is given in Paul O'Grady's memoirs, At My Mother's Knee... and Other Low Joints: The Autobiography.
The current Member of Parliament for constituency of Birkenhead is Mick Whitley.
^ "Cammell Laird wins £50m Royal Navy warship contract". Liverpool Echo. 25 January 2010. Retrieved 25 January 2010.
"Marks and Spencer plans to close up to 14 stores". BBC News. 31 January 2018. Retrieved 1 February 2018.
Prior to 1 April 1974, Birkenhead and the rest of the Wirral Peninsula were part of the county of Cheshire. The implementation of the Local Government Act 1972 caused Birkenhead to lose its county borough status. The town has since been administered as part of the Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, in the metropolitan county of Merseyside. The Birkenhead and Tranmere electoral ward had a population of 15,879 in 2011.[20]
The first two Boy Scout groups in the world are thought to have been founded as the 1st and 2nd Birkenhead groups at YMCA on the same night in 1908.[75] The 2nd Birkenhead Scout Group is still operating and therefore is the longest running scout group in the world.[citation needed]
Sulley, Philip (1907). History of ancient and modern Birkenhead. W.M. Murphy. OCLC 29557494.
8Transport											Toggle Transport subsection																					8.1Trams																											8.2Buses																								8.2.1Birkenhead Bus Station																														8.3Railways																											8.4Roads																											8.5Maritime																											8.6Aviation
"Mersey to Belfast ferry operator close to completing £6m upgrade on Irish Sea fleet"
^ Brocklebank, Ralph T (2003), Birkenhead – An Illustrated History, Breedon Books, p. 33, ISBN 1-85983-350-0
^ "School prepares to make historic move", www.wirralglobe.co.uk, 8 November 2007, retrieved 14 January 2008
^ Mersey ferries (PDF), Liverpool Museums, retrieved 24 August 2012
The system was later electrified and operated from 1901 as Birkenhead Corporation Tramways; it closed in 1937.[44] Two replica trams, imported from Hong Kong, have been brought into service as part of a heritage tramway between Woodside and Wirral Transport Museum; Birkenhead Corporation Tramways car No.20 is preserved on this line.
The Birkenhead Urban Area, as defined by the Office for National Statistics,[21] includes Birkenhead, Wallasey, Bebington, Ellesmere Port (which is outside the Metropolitan Borough of Wirral) and the contiguous built-up areas which link those towns. In the 2011 Census, the area so defined had a total population of 325,264,[22] making it the 19th largest conurbation in England and Wales.
^ Birkenhead, Wirral, Theatres and Halls, arthurlloyd.co.uk, retrieved 16 July 2007
^ "Teacher makes 'one of the great discoveries of world literature'". 9 August 2022.
"Don't ask the price, it's a penny". Knitting Together. Archived from the original on 11 March 2007. Retrieved 2 July 2006.
The name Birkenhead probably means "headland overgrown with birch", from the Old English bircen meaning birch tree,[3] of which many once grew on the headland which jutted into the river at Woodside. The name is not derived from the Birket, a stream which enters the Mersey between Birkenhead and Seacombe. The Birket is a later name which was introduced by Ordnance Survey.[4]
^ "Don't ask the price, it's a penny". Knitting Together. Archived from the original on 11 March 2007. Retrieved 2 July 2006.
Listing of Transport Services from Birkenhead, Travel Search, retrieved 26 May 2009
Peel unveil plans for £4.5 billion "Wirral Waters" scheme, Peel Holdings, 5 September 2006, archived from the original on 11 October 2007, retrieved 14 January 2008
Birkenhead is situated within the television regions of BBC North West and ITV's Granada Television. The local television station Bay TV Liverpool also broadcasts to the area.[74]
Gamlin, Hilda (1892). Memories of the chronicles of Birkenhead. E. Howell. OCLC 866209732.
Cheshire Towns & Parishes: Birkenhead, GENUKI UK & Ireland Genealogy, retrieved 14 January 2008
Birkenhead is mentioned in the song "What She Said" on the album Meat Is Murder by the Smiths: "What she read/All heady books/She'd sit and prophesize/(It took a tattooed boy from Birkenhead/To really really open her eyes)."
"The History of Mersey Rowing Club: Founded 1854". Mersey Rowing Club. Archived from the original on 5 May 2016. Retrieved 5 February 2018.
^ Roberts, Stephen J. (2002). A History of Wirral. ISBN 978-1-86077-512-3.
^ Architecture: Hamilton Square, Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, archived from the original on 7 November 2007, retrieved 14 January 2008
Railways reached Birkenhead in 1840, when the Chester and Birkenhead Railway began services.[48] Birkenhead Grange Lane station opened at the same time, becoming the town's first terminus.[48] Birkenhead Dock station opened in 1866, as the eastern terminus of the Hoylake Railway.[49] With the opening of the Woodside and Birkenhead Dock Street Tramway in 1873,[50] this station probably became the world's first tram to train interchange.[49] In 1886, Birkenhead and Liverpool were linked by an underground railway system, which today is part of the Merseyrail network.
"Teacher makes 'one of the great discoveries of world literature'"
1989 saw the completion of a large shopping development within Birkenhead town centre, known as the Pyramids.[16]
The Wirral Line from Birkenhead travels south to Chester and Ellesmere Port, north to New Brighton and westwards, across the Wirral Peninsula, to West Kirby. The Borderlands Line leaves Bidston station, in the north of Birkenhead and travels through the rural centre of Wirral, ultimately leaving England near Shotton and terminating in Wrexham, Wales.[51]
Aerodynamicists Gwen Alston and Melvill Jones were born in Birkenhead, as was Henry Herbert Collier, inventor and founder of the Matchless motorcycle marque.
Dunn, Justin (26 August 2009). "Birkenhead's Pyramids Centre celebrates its 20th birthday". Wirral Globe. Retrieved 13 August 2022.
^ Foldi, N.S. (1978). Poole, Daniel (1882–1959)'. Australian Dictionary of Biography, Volume 11, Melbourne University Press, p. 255. Retrieved on 9 August 2009.
Brocklebank, Ralph T (2003), Birkenhead – An Illustrated History, Breedon Books, pp. 14–15, ISBN 1-85983-350-0
^ "Birkenhead Victoria Cycling Club history". Archived from the original on 7 January 2005. Retrieved 18 February 2007.
Bidston, Carol E. (1978). Birkenhead in Times Past. Chorley: Countryside Publications Ltd. ISBN 0861570030. OCLC 16480899.
14Notable people											Toggle Notable people subsection																					14.1Actors and performers																											14.2Artists																											14.3Authors and journalists																											14.4Musicians																											14.5Politicians and public figures																											14.6Scientists and technologists																											14.7Soldiers and explorers																											14.8Sports people																											14.9Other
F. E. Smith, 1st Earl of Birkenhead, a leading Conservative politician of the early 20th century, was born in the town, as were Liberal Democrat politician Malcolm Bruce, Labour politician Stephen Ladyman, the prominent occultist Alex Sanders, and Tony Hall, Baron Hall of Birkenhead, the Director-General of the BBC. Theodora Llewelyn Davies was a British barrister and penal reform campaigner. She was the first woman admitted to the Inner Temple in 1920. Frank Ernest Field, Baron Field of Birkenhead DL, is a British politician who was the Member of Parliament for Birkenhead from 1979 to 2019, serving as a Labour MP until August 2018 and thereafter as an Independent
"Merseyside beats global competition to build £200 million polar research ship". UK Government. 12 October 2015. Retrieved 6 May 2016.
Roberts, Stephen J. (2002). A History of Wirral. ISBN 978-1-86077-512-3.
In February 2010, the town had an overall unemployment rate of 8.2% (males 12.4%, female 4.1%) as against a national average of 4.4%.[34]
^ Dunn, Justin (26 August 2009). "Birkenhead's Pyramids Centre celebrates its 20th birthday". Wirral Globe. Retrieved 13 August 2022.
Sandy Irvine, a participant of the 1924 British Mount Everest expedition, was born in Birkenhead. There has been speculation that George Mallory and he reached the summit. Similarly, Alan Rouse, a mountaineer who died in the 1986 K2 disaster, was educated in Birkenhead. Daniel Poole, a recipient of the Distinguished Conduct Medal during World War I was born in the town.[90]
The current Anglican churches are St. James' Church, Christ Church and the Church of Christ the King which are all within the Diocese of Chester. Julie Conalty is the current suffragan Bishop of Birkenhead.
Collard, Ian (2012). Birkenhead Through Time. Amberley. ISBN 9781848689657. OCLC 934954016.
^ John Belchem, ed. (2006). Liverpool 800: Culture, Character & History. ISBN 1-84631-035-0.
Birkenhead High School Academy, formerly Birkenhead Girls High School, is an all-ability state funded girls' Academy. It was founded in 1885 and caters for girls aged 3–19. Its sponsor was the Girls' Day School Trust, but is now publicly funded. Its alumnae include the actress Patricia Routledge. Birkenhead Girls High School decided to become a state-funded Academy school in 2009, increasing the availability of its education.[57] Like the change to co-education at Birkenhead School, this decision was largely driven by falling pupil numbers;[citation needed] however to this date, it remains a single sex school.
William Laird, a Scot, and his son John, were influential in the design of the town. Parts were laid out in a grid-iron pattern like Edinburgh New Town with similar architecture. The chief architect was James Gillespie Graham from Edinburgh.[39] This grid pattern was centred around Hamilton Square which was started in 1826 and, apart from Trafalgar Square in London, contains the most Grade I listed buildings in one place in England.[40] including Birkenhead Town Hall. A short distance from Hamilton Square are two other notable landmarks: the Queensway Tunnel Main Entrance and the Woodside Ferry Terminal. The film Chariots of Fire had scenes shot at Woodside. These scenes were as a representation of Dover in the 1920s.[41]
E. Ekwall, The Concise Oxford Dictionary of English Place-Names, 3rd edn., p.43
Formerly a township in Bidston Parish of the Wirral Hundred, Birkenhead was incorporated as a municipal borough in 1877, and became a county borough with the passing of the Local Government Act 1888. The borough included the parish of Birkenhead St. Mary and the townships of Bidston, Claughton with Grange, Oxton, Tranmere and part of Bebington, later known as Rock Ferry.[14] The townships of Landican, Prenton and Thingwall were added in 1928, followed by Noctorum, Upton and Woodchurch in 1933.[19]
Distanced from the Industrial Revolution in Liverpool by the physical barrier of the River Mersey, Birkenhead retained its agricultural status until the advent of steam ferry services. In 1817 a steam ferry service started from Liverpool to Tranmere and in 1822 the paddle steamer, Royal Mail, began operation between Liverpool and Woodside.[9]
"Polar research ship to be named after Sir David Attenborough - not Boaty McBoatface"
Birkenhead & Surrounds Archived 7 November 2017 at the Wayback Machine
In September 1932 thousands of unemployed people protested in a series of demonstrations organised by the local branch of the National Unemployed Workers Movement. After three days of rioting, police were brought in from elsewhere to help quell the rioters.[13]
Birkenhead was struck by an F0/T1 tornado on 23 November 1981, as part of the record-breaking nationwide tornado outbreak on that day.[15]
In 1833 an act was passed to introduce street paving, lighting and other improvements in the town. These included establishing a market and regulating the police force.[11]
Birkenhead has been host to various rowing clubs since 1840.[80] At present, Liverpool Victoria Rowing Club operates from a facility at the western end of West Float.[81]
The National Cyclopaedia of Useful Knowledge. Vol. III Bavaria - Caesar. London: Charles Knight. 1847. p. 337. OCLC 499316122.
In the second half of the 20th century, the town suffered a significant period of decline, with containerisation causing a reduction in port activity. The Wirral Waters development is planned to regenerate much of the dockland.
Birkenhead Tramway & Wirral Transport Museum, Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, archived from the original on 16 March 2008, retrieved 14 January 2008
^ "Birkenhead". The Drill Halls Project. Retrieved 13 August 2017.
^ "Merseyrail Network Map" (PDF). Merseytravel. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 December 2008.
Also in the town are the Birkenhead North End and Victoria Cycling Clubs. Olympic riders from the clubs include Chris Boardman, Mark Bell, Steve Cummings and Rachel Heal.[78][79]
Birkenhead, Wirral, Theatres and Halls, arthurlloyd.co.uk, retrieved 16 July 2007
Nadine Meisner, "Lindsay Kemp: How the lost boy of dance found his feet", The Independent, 28 January 2002. Retrieved 25 August 2018
"Title page of the 1917 Welsh National Eisteddfod programme held at Birkenhead"
^ Town Twinning, Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, 1997, ISBN 92-827-8272-7, archived from the original on 3 July 2007, retrieved 14 January 2008
"A BRIEF HISTORY OF BIRKENHEAD PARK". Pitchero. Retrieved 23 November 2015.
Wright, Jade (31 March 2015). "Elvis Costello to publish his memoirs". Liverpool Echo. Retrieved 29 October 2015.
"Unemployment statistics where you live: benefit claimants constituency by constituency"
Flaybrick Memorial Gardens contains the town's former main cemetery, which is situated near to St. James' Church. Flaybrick Hill Cemetery has been superseded by Landican Cemetery.
^ a b c .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Area: Birkenhead (Westminster Parliamentary Constituency)". Office for National Statistics. Archived from the original on 15 March 2016. Retrieved 5 March 2016.
Lea, Myrra (1974). Birkenhead, 1877-1974. County Borough of Birkenhead. ISBN 9780904582000. OCLC 1365533.
^ Neil Hodgson (17 November 2008), Cammell Laird name returns on River Mersey, Liverpool Echo, retrieved 19 December 2008
^ Chariots of Fire, Where Did They Film That?, retrieved 18 February 2007
This page was last edited on 5 January 2023, at 01:43 (UTC).
^ "St James' Hospital, Birkenhead". National archives. Retrieved 11 April 2019.
^ "Home". 2nd Birkenhead Scout Group. Archived from the original on 12 November 2018. Retrieved 12 November 2018.
^ Birkenhead Priory, Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, archived from the original on 4 March 2008, retrieved 14 January 2008
^ Focus on People & Migration: The UK's major urban areas (PDF), Office for National Statistics, 2005, archived from the original (PDF) on 25 August 2008
The Liverpool Welsh, BBC Wales, 7 January 2008, retrieved 14 January 2008
Other notable landmarks include Bidston Windmill on a ridge behind the town, Flaybrick Watertower and Birkenhead Priory & St. Mary's Tower.
^ "Birkenhead Institute, Wirral". Spirit of Birkenhead Institute. Retrieved 31 August 2016.
^ Nadine Meisner, "Lindsay Kemp: How the lost boy of dance found his feet", The Independent, 28 January 2002. Retrieved 25 August 2018
"Bay TV Liverpool to make a splash today". Wirral Globe. 4 December 2014. Retrieved 2 November 2015.
^ Why I am Still an Anglican, Continuum, 2006, p. 67
The Birkenhead Park Football Club was founded in 1871, the same year as the Rugby Football Union. The club originally played in the Lower Park but moved to their current home in the Upper Park in 1885.[76] Birkenhead Park also has its own cricket club.[77]
Services using the bus station operate around the town of Birkenhead, throughout the Wirral and to the nearby city of Liverpool via the Queensway Tunnel. The station also has frequent services to as far away as Chester.
Birkenhead-Built: An Unrivaled Historical Legacy, Institute of Nautical Archaeology at Texas A&M University
^ a b Cheshire Towns & Parishes: Birkenhead, GENUKI UK & Ireland Genealogy, retrieved 14 January 2008
Chariots of Fire, Where Did They Film That?, retrieved 18 February 2007
"Birkenhead Market: A Brief History". Archived from the original on 26 August 2007. Retrieved 15 September 2007.
Architecture: Hamilton Square, Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, archived from the original on 7 November 2007, retrieved 14 January 2008
"Stena Line's newest E-Flexer ferry completes sea trials". Baird Maritime. 26 October 2020. Retrieved 6 March 2021.
"Home". 2nd Birkenhead Scout Group. Archived from the original on 12 November 2018. Retrieved 12 November 2018.
^ Dunn, Justin (3 March 2009). "1,100 gather for Graham McKenna's funeral". Wirral Globe. Retrieved 11 December 2020.
Neil Hodgson (17 November 2008), Cammell Laird name returns on River Mersey, Liverpool Echo, retrieved 19 December 2008
^ "Title page of the 1917 Welsh National Eisteddfod programme held at Birkenhead". Archives Hub. Archived from the original on 25 May 2007. Retrieved 18 February 2008.
The 1998 book, Awaydays, and the following 2009 film of the same name are set in Birkenhead.
"Birkenhead - Latest news updates, pictures, video, reaction - Liverpool Echo"
Wirral Notes and Queries. Printed and published by Willmer Bros. and Co . February 1892. p. 10.
Despite being in England, Birkenhead (known as Penbedw, in Welsh) hosted Wales' National Eisteddfod in 1917[67] as well as an unofficial National Eisteddfod event in 1879. As in Liverpool,[68] migrants from Wales, especially North Wales, contributed greatly to the growth of the town and its cultural development in the 19th century. The first local Birkenhead Eisteddfod, a precursor of the national events, took place in 1864.[69] The 1917 National Eisteddfod was notable for the award of the chair to the poet Ellis Humphrey Evans, known as Hedd Wyn. The winner was announced, and the crowd waited for the winner to accept congratulations before the chairing ceremony, but no winner appeared. It was then announced that Hedd Wyn had been killed the previous month on the battlefield in Belgium, and the bardic chair was draped in black. These events were portrayed in the Academy Award nominated film Hedd Wyn, and were apparently intended as a protest against the war policies of Prime Minister David Lloyd George, who was present. There is a commemorative stone for the event in Birkenhead Park.[70] The first meeting of the international Celtic Congress also took place at the Birkenhead Eisteddfod.[71]
It has a total of eleven stands and incorporates a travel centre. The main bus operators at the station include Arriva North West and Stagecoach Merseyside & South Lancashire.
Birkenhead Park is acknowledged to be the first publicly funded park in Britain.[36]The park was the forerunner of the Parks Movement and its influence was far reaching both in Britain and abroad – most notably on Frederick Law Olmsted's design for Central Park.[37]Designed by Joseph Paxton (later Sir Joseph Paxton) in 1843 and officially opened in 1847, with great festivity.[38] The park's Grand Entrance, modelled on the Temple of Illysus in Athens,[citation needed] and its 'Roman Boathouse' are notable features. There are sandstone lodges at the three entrances, each with a different style of architecture, Gothic, Norman and Italianate. There are also two lakes and an ornate 'Swiss Bridge'.
The Laird School of Art was the first public school of art outside London and was given to the town by John Laird. It opened on 27 September 1871. The Williamson Art Gallery was opened in 1928 and houses a fine collection of paintings, porcelain and pottery.
Birkenhead Central Library, visitliverpool.com, retrieved 14 January 2008[permanent dead link]
12Arts, sports and leisure											Toggle Arts, sports and leisure subsection																					12.1Arts																											12.2Media																											12.3Leisure																											12.4Sport
^ Birkenhead Park, Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, 1999, ISBN 0-7726-3949-3, archived from the original on 12 June 2008, retrieved 14 January 2008
The town is also referred to in the song "Everything Is Sorrow" on the Boo Radleys' C'mon Kids album: I worked in Birkenhead for you/It brings me tears even now.
Nadine Meisner, "Lindsay Kemp: How the lost boy of dance found his feet", The Independent, 28 January 2002
^ Birkenhead Corporation Transport: 1901–1969, ClassicBusDepot.com, archived from the original on 21 March 2009, retrieved 26 May 2009
^ Brocklebank, Ralph T (2003), Birkenhead – An Illustrated History, Breedon Books, pp. 14–15, ISBN 1-85983-350-0
^ Listing of Transport Services from Birkenhead, Travel Search, retrieved 26 May 2009
The Little Theatre was established in 1958 from a converted former Presbyterian church. The Pacific Road Arts Centre in Woodside opened in 1999, but in 2015 was converted to a “Business Hub”.
The major underground station in Birkenhead is Hamilton Square, the nearest station to the ferry terminal. Hamilton Square station is linked to the Liverpool Loop of the Wirral Line, which includes James Street, Moorfields, Liverpool Lime Street and Liverpool Central stations; all of these are underground. Other stations in the town include Birkenhead Central, which is open but below ground level; Green Lane, below ground level; Rock Ferry; Conway Park, below ground level; Birkenhead Park; Birkenhead North; and Bidston.
Birkenhead Priory and the Mersey Ferry were established in the 12th century. In the 19th century, Birkenhead expanded greatly as a consequence of the Industrial Revolution. Birkenhead Park and Hamilton Square were laid out as well as the first street tramway in Britain. The Mersey Railway connected Birkenhead and Liverpool with the world's first tunnel beneath a tidal estuary; the shipbuilding firm Cammell Laird and a seaport were established.
As well as Birkenhead Park, other recreational open spaces in Birkenhead include Dock Branch Park, Mersey Park and Victoria Park. Arrowe Park is a large area of parkland at the western edge of the town. In 1929, the 3rd World Scout Jamboree was held there.
In addition to the ferries and the railway, the Queensway road tunnel opened in 1934 and gave rapid access to Liverpool. This opened up the Wirral Peninsula for development, and prompted further growth of Birkenhead as an industrial centre. Bolstered by migration from rural Cheshire, southern Ireland and Wales, the town's population had grown from 110 in 1801 to 110,912 one hundred years later and stood at 142,501 by 1951.[14]
Gary Finlay, the murderer of Graham McKenna, was born in Birkenhead.[91]
Focus on People & Migration: The UK's major urban areas
Duggan, Mona (1996), Birkenhead School, ISBN 0-907768-88-1, retrieved 2 February 2007
^ "Wirral Islamic Cultural Centre and Shah Jalal Mosque". mosquedirectory.co.uk. Retrieved 13 February 2016.
Boumphrey, Ian; Boumphrey, Marilyn (1981). Yesterday's Wirral: Birkenhead, Prenton and Oxton. Ian & Marilyn Boumphrey. ISBN 9780950725512. OCLC 16599808.
"Conway Park station opens plus 'Smart' bus service (From Wirral Globe)"
^ "Bidston Aerodrome". History of The Wirral Hundred or The Wirral Peninsula. Retrieved 7 March 2016.
^ "2011 Census – Built-up areas". ONS. Retrieved 11 August 2013.
Birkenhead Corporation Transport: 1901–1969, ClassicBusDepot.com, archived from the original on 21 March 2009, retrieved 26 May 2009
15Twin towns											Toggle Twin towns subsection																					15.1Twin towns – Sister cities
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Area: Birkenhead (Westminster Parliamentary Constituency)". Office for National Statistics. Archived from the original on 15 March 2016. Retrieved 5 March 2016.
^ Birkenhead-Built: An Unrivaled Historical Legacy, Institute of Nautical Archaeology at Texas A&M University
^ "Marks and Spencer confirms plans to close Birkenhead store". Liverpool Echo. 31 January 2018. Retrieved 1 February 2018.
Why I am Still an Anglican, Continuum, 2006, p. 67
Brocklebank, Ralph T. (2003). Birkenhead: An Illustrated History. Breedon. ISBN 9781859833506. OCLC 56469838.
"Birkenhead Institute, Wirral". Spirit of Birkenhead Institute. Retrieved 31 August 2016.
Pevsner, Nikolaus; Hubbard, Edward (1971). Cheshire. The Buildings of England. Penguin. ISBN 9780140710427. OCLC 521341.
Brocklebank, Ralph T (2003), Birkenhead – An Illustrated History, Breedon Books, p. 110, ISBN 1-85983-350-0
Birkenhead Priory, Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, archived from the original on 4 March 2008, retrieved 14 January 2008
^ Peel unveil plans for £4.5 billion "Wirral Waters" scheme, Peel Holdings, 5 September 2006, archived from the original on 11 October 2007, retrieved 14 January 2008
Maund, T.B. (2009). The Wirral Railway and its Predecessors. Lightmoor Press. ISBN 978-1-899889-38-9.
There are several musicians linked to the area. Freddie Marks from Rod, Jane and Freddy was born in Birkenhead, as was John Gorman of The Scaffold. Indie band Half Man Half Biscuit hail from Birkenhead, as did boogie-rock band Engine, Paul Heaton, lead singer of the Housemartins and the Beautiful South, singer/songwriter Charlie Landsborough and Desmond Briscoe co-founder and original manager of the pioneering BBC Radiophonic Workshop. Elvis Costello moved to Birkenhead in 1971 with his mother,[89] who was from Liverpool, although Elvis Costello's father was himself from Birkenhead. Tony Friel (bassist from the Fall and the Passage), synthpop musician David Hughes (of Dalek I Love You, Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark and Godot) and Malcolm Holmes (drummer with pop group Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark) were born there. David Balfe (music manager, and member of Dalek I Love You, Big in Japan, the Teardrop Explodes) attended primary and secondary school there. Miles Kane, musician, singer and songwriter and member of The Last Shadow Puppets and The Rascals, was born in the town as well as the opera singer Hugh Beresford. Classical composer William Lewarne Harris (1919-2013) was born in Birkenhead.
"Birkenhead Victoria Cycling Club history". Archived from the original on 7 January 2005. Retrieved 18 February 2007.
Birkenhead Park, Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, 1999, ISBN 0-7726-3949-3, archived from the original on 12 June 2008, retrieved 14 January 2008
The Mersey Railway tunnel opened in 1886, providing direct railway access to Liverpool.
^ a b "Birkenhead Market: A Brief History". Archived from the original on 26 August 2007. Retrieved 15 September 2007.
The local radio station Heart Wirral is based in offices at the Pacific Road Arts Centre. In addition, there are five other local radio stations that transmit to Birkenhead: BBC Radio Merseyside, Radio City 96.7, Greatest Hits Liverpool, Capital Liverpool and CityTalk.
^ Kelly, S.F. (January 1988), Idle Hands Clenched Fists, Spokesman Books, ISBN 0-85124-446-7
Barlow, Eleanor (6 May 2016). "Polar research ship to be named after Sir David Attenborough - not Boaty McBoatface". Liverpool Echo. Retrieved 6 May 2016.
"Unemployment statistics where you live: benefit claimants constituency by constituency". Business. London: guardian.co.uk. Archived from the original on 23 January 2010. Retrieved 21 March 2010.
^ Brocklebank, Ralph T (2003), Birkenhead – An Illustrated History, Breedon Books, p. 110, ISBN 1-85983-350-0
^ a b "Station Name: Birkenhead Grange Lane". Disused Stations. Retrieved 7 March 2016.
"St James' Hospital, Birkenhead". National archives. Retrieved 11 April 2019.
Birkenhead also has two independently run schools. The oldest is Birkenhead School.[55] It was exclusively a boys' school from its founding in 1860 until 2000, when its sixth form became co-educational. It became fully co-educational for pupils aged 3–18 in 2008.[56] "Old Birkonians" (as former pupils are known) include the lawyer F.E. Smith (Lord Birkenhead); Andreas Whittam Smith (chairman of the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) and founder of The Independent newspaper); mountaineer Andrew Irvine; Philip Toosey (hero at the Bridge on the River Kwai); and Tony Hall (former Director-General of the BBC).
Core, Kevin (20 November 2009). "Wirral's Birkenhead High School Academy told to cater for the poorest". Liverpool Daily Post. Retrieved 4 December 2009.
^ Birkenhead Central Library, visitliverpool.com, retrieved 14 January 2008[permanent dead link]
Hayes, Cliff (2007). A Century of Birkenhead and Wirral. Sutton. ISBN 9780750949040. OCLC 520460751.
"Birkenhead - Latest news updates, pictures, video, reaction - Liverpool Echo".
^ The National Cyclopaedia of Useful Knowledge. Vol. III Bavaria - Caesar. London: Charles Knight. 1847. p. 337. OCLC 499316122.
Collard, Ian (2010). Birkenhead from old photographs. Amberley. ISBN 9781848685796. OCLC 503647633.
Horse-drawn buses began operating in Birkenhead in 1848, to be replaced with motor vehicles after the First World War.[46]
Some notable artists were born in the town, such as Philip Wilson Steer, Robert Talbot Kelly, Tom Palin, Bessie Bamber, Annie R. Merrylees Arnold, the workers at the Della Robbia Pottery and two cartoonists: Norman Thelwell and Bill Tidy.[87]
^ Brocklebank, Ralph T (2003), Birkenhead – An Illustrated History, Breedon Books, ISBN 1-85983-350-0
"2011 Census – Built-up areas". ONS. Retrieved 11 August 2013.
^ "Merseyside beats global competition to build £200 million polar research ship". UK Government. 12 October 2015. Retrieved 6 May 2016.
Broadbent, R.J. (1908). Annals of the Liverpool Stage. Liverpool: Edward Howell. pp. 377–386.
Brocklebank, Ralph T (2003), Birkenhead – An Illustrated History, Breedon Books, p. 33, ISBN 1-85983-350-0
"Bidston Aerodrome". History of The Wirral Hundred or The Wirral Peninsula. Retrieved 7 March 2016.
In the arts, Birkenhead has produced several actors and performers including Lionel Gamlin, Roger Abbott, Glenda Jackson,[85] Anew McMaster, Lewis Collins, Megs Jenkins, Taron Egerton, Patricia Routledge, Paul O'Grady (also known as Lily Savage), soprano Valerie Masterson and baritone George Baker. The dancer and actor Lindsay Kemp was born in the town but as a child moved to South Shields.[86] Opera director Graham Vick was born in Birkenhead.
Shipbuilding started in 1829.[10] An ironworks was established by William Laird in 1824, and he was joined by his son John in 1828. The business eventually became the shipbuilder Cammell Laird. Notable naval vessels built at Birkenhead include HMS Achilles, HMS Affray, CSS Alabama, HMS Ark Royal, HMS Birkenhead, HMS Caroline, Huáscar, the pioneer submarine Resurgam, HMS Thetis (which sank in Liverpool Bay during sea trials, and was refloated and commissioned as HMS Thunderbolt, only to be lost to enemy action with the loss of the entire crew), HMS Conqueror and HMS Prince of Wales. Merchant vessels were also built such as RMS Mauretania and RMS Windsor Castle.
The town has one operational railway depot, Birkenhead North TMD; one disused, Birkenhead Central TMD; and two demolished, Birkenhead Mollington Street TMD and a further depot adjacent to Birkenhead Park station. The remains of the Birkenhead Dock Branch are still extant in a cutting through the centre of the town, which was used primarily for freight services. Much of the peripheral railway infrastructure, around the docks, has been removed since the 1980s.
^ a b "Birkenhead - Latest news updates, pictures, video, reaction - Liverpool Echo".
John Belchem, ed. (2006). Liverpool 800: Culture, Character & History. ISBN 1-84631-035-0.
In 2011, Birkenhead had a population of 88,818. The wider Urban Subdivision[clarification needed] had a population of over 142,000. However, this latter figure includes areas such as Greasby and Frankby, which are separate from Birkenhead.
The Grange Road West drill hall was completed in 1900.[12]
Birkenhead is indirectly referenced by "the Birken'ead drill" in Rudyard Kipling's poem "Soldier an' Sailor Too": To take your chance in the thick of a rush, with firing all about, / Is nothing so bad when you've cover to 'and, an' leave an' likin' to shout; / But to stand an' be still to the Birken'ead drill is a damn tough bullet to chew, / An' they done it, the Jollies – 'Er Majesty's Jollies – soldier an' sailor too!, as it refers to heroism by Royal Marines during the sinking of HMS Birkenhead, itself named after the town in which it was built.Other authors have done this as well.
"Birkenhead 2040 Framework | www.wirral.gov.uk". www.wirral.gov.uk. Retrieved 13 August 2022.
"Wirral Islamic Cultural Centre and Shah Jalal Mosque". mosquedirectory.co.uk. Retrieved 13 February 2016.
"Cammell Laird wins £50m Royal Navy warship contract". Liverpool Echo. 25 January 2010. Retrieved 25 January 2010.
Boumphrey, Ian (1995). Birkenhead: A Pictorial History. Phillmore. ISBN 9780850339888. OCLC 36548684.
"Marks and Spencer plans to close up to 14 stores"
Town Twinning, Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, 1997, ISBN 92-827-8272-7, archived from the original on 3 July 2007, retrieved 14 January 2008
^ Duggan, Mona (1996), Birkenhead School, ISBN 0-907768-88-1, retrieved 2 February 2007
"Marks and Spencer confirms plans to close Birkenhead store". Liverpool Echo. 31 January 2018. Retrieved 1 February 2018.
Aspinall, Henry Kelsall (1903). Birkenhead and its Surroundings. Liverpool: The Liverpool Booksellers' Co. Ltd. ISBN 9785874616144. OCLC 33990938.
McIntyre, W.R.S. (1948). Birkenhead yesterday and today. Philip. OCLC 504769644.
As part of the Wirral Waters development, a street car service has been proposed, to be called Wirral Street Car.[45]
Brocklebank, Ralph T (2003), Birkenhead – An Illustrated History, Breedon Books, ISBN 1-85983-350-0
^ "Bay TV Liverpool to make a splash today". Wirral Globe. 4 December 2014. Retrieved 2 November 2015.
^ Wright, Jade (31 March 2015). "Elvis Costello to publish his memoirs". Liverpool Echo. Retrieved 29 October 2015.
^ Wirral Notes and Queries. Printed and published by Willmer Bros. and Co . February 1892. p. 10.
Birkenhead had the first street tramway in Britain. Opened on 29 August 1860, the first line ran from Woodside (adjoining the terminal of the Mersey Ferry) to Birkenhead Park. This early system was horse-drawn and was the brainchild of flamboyant American, George Francis Train.[42][43]A preserved tram was on display in the Woodside ferry terminal booking hall.
^ "The History of Mersey Rowing Club: Founded 1854". Mersey Rowing Club. Archived from the original on 5 May 2016. Retrieved 5 February 2018.
Birkenhead Institute Grammar School [58] existed from 1889 in Whetstone Lane, before being moved to Claughton in the 1970s. The school closed in 1994.[59] The school's alumni include Wilfred Owen.
Shipbuilding and ship repair has featured prominently in the local economy since the 19th century. Cammell Laird entered receivership in 2001. The shipyard was sold and became 'Northwestern Shiprepairers & Shipbuilders' (NS&S), which grew into a successful business specialising in ship repair and conversion, including maintenance contracts for the Royal Fleet Auxiliary. In September 2007 NS&S acquired the rights to use the Cammell Laird name. The company was renamed 'Cammell Laird Shiprepairers & Shipbuilders' on 17 November 2008,[23] seeing the famous name return to Birkenhead after a seven-year hiatus. In 2010, Cammell Laird secured a £50 million contract to construct the flight deck for HMS Queen Elizabeth,[24] the first of two Queen Elizabeth-class aircraft carriers. In 2015, Cammell Laird was selected as the preferred bidder to construct RRS Sir David Attenborough, a Royal Research Ship.[25][26]
In 1856, Birkenhead Library was opened as the country's first public library in an unincorporated borough.[65]The library was situated in Hamilton Street until 1909, when it moved to a new building in Market Street South,[66] near Birkenhead Market. In the 1930s, this building (along with much of the surrounding area) was demolished to make way for the entrance to the Queensway Tunnel. The present library, Birkenhead Central Library, is situated on Borough Road and was opened by King George V in 1934.[66]
National Express provides long-distance coach services to other UK cities, with direct routes including London, Glasgow, Bangor and Newcastle.[47]
^ Barlow, Eleanor (6 May 2016). "Polar research ship to be named after Sir David Attenborough - not Boaty McBoatface". Liverpool Echo. Retrieved 6 May 2016.
^ McDonough, Tony (27 March 2015). "Mersey to Belfast ferry operator close to completing £6m upgrade on Irish Sea fleet". Liverpool Echo. Retrieved 7 March 2016.
List of twin towns and sister cities in the United Kingdom
^ E. Ekwall, The Concise Oxford Dictionary of English Place-Names, 3rd edn., p.43
Present-day services are run by operators including Arriva and Stagecoach, which are coordinated by Merseytravel.
The other religious buildings include the Wirral Christian Centre of the Elim Pentecostal Church and the Islamic Shah Jalal Mosque.[61] The Jewish Birkenhead Synagogue existed from 1890 and closed prior to 2006.[62]
Wirral Council announced in 2020 the formulation of a 20 year development plan known as the 'Birkenhead 2040 Framework'.[18] The plan aims to regenerate parts of Birkenhead, with the creation of a new park (Dock Branch Park), new housing and an improved greener environment.
"Merseyside beats global competition to build £200 million polar research ship"
"Birkenhead North End Cycling Club Olympians". Archived from the original on 8 October 2007. Retrieved 18 February 2007.
Mortimer, William Williams (1847). The History of the Hundred of Wirral. London: Whittaker & Co. OCLC 4976662. pp305–405.
Junctions 1 and 3 of the M53 motorway facilitate access to the national motorway network. The A41 trunk road connects Woodside with Marble Arch in London. Two road tunnels, the Queensway road tunnel from Birkenhead and the Kingsway road tunnel from Wallasey, run underneath the River Mersey and connect the town to Liverpool.
Mott, Charles Grey (1900). Reminiscences of Birkenhead. H. Young and Sons. OCLC 12987941.
The Argyle Theatre was a major theatre and music hall which opened on 28 December 1868[33] and became notable for the calibre of artistes who appeared there. Later in its life, it was also used as a cinema. The theatre was destroyed by bombing in 1940.[72]
^ Ellis, Mari. "A short history of the Celtic Congress". Archived from the original on 2 June 2008. Retrieved 3 October 2008.
Conway Park station was opened in 1998 as part of a development that saw Wirral Metropolitan College open a new campus nearby.[17]
^ "Marks and Spencer plans to close up to 14 stores". BBC News. 31 January 2018. Retrieved 1 February 2018.
^ "Unemployment statistics where you live: benefit claimants constituency by constituency". Business. London: guardian.co.uk. Archived from the original on 23 January 2010. Retrieved 21 March 2010.
^ "Wirral Street Car". Wirral Waters. Retrieved 13 August 2022.
^ "A BRIEF HISTORY OF BIRKENHEAD PARK". Pitchero. Retrieved 23 November 2015.
Davey, Elizabeth (2013). Birkenhead: A History. The History Press. ISBN 9780750955522. OCLC 316434050.
^ Core, Kevin (20 November 2009). "Wirral's Birkenhead High School Academy told to cater for the poorest". Liverpool Daily Post. Retrieved 4 December 2009.
Ellis, Mari. "A short history of the Celtic Congress". Archived from the original on 2 June 2008. Retrieved 3 October 2008.
^ "Liverpool Victoria RC". British Rowing. Retrieved 5 February 2018.
Foldi, N.S. (1978). Poole, Daniel (1882–1959)'. Australian Dictionary of Biography, Volume 11, Melbourne University Press, p. 255. Retrieved on 9 August 2009.
^ "Birkenhead 2040 Framework | www.wirral.gov.uk". www.wirral.gov.uk. Retrieved 13 August 2022.
^ Birkenhead Tramway & Wirral Transport Museum, Metropolitan Borough of Wirral, archived from the original on 16 March 2008, retrieved 14 January 2008
The first known footballclub on the Wirral was Birkenhead F.C. which was founded in 1879 by Robert E. Lythgoe, a former Druids F.C. player. An unrelated, disbanded side had played under the name Tranmere Rovers Cricket Club in 1881–82. Other clubs included Belmont Football Club, founded in 1884. They adopted the name Tranmere Rovers F.C. the following year, and are a professional team who play at Prenton Park near the Tranmere area of the town. They were a founder member of Division Three North in 1921, and were a member of The Football League until 2015, when they were relegated to the Conference, the fifth tier of English football. They returned to the Football League three seasons later, after a 2-1 play off final win against Boreham Wood F.C. Cammell Laird 1907 F.C. is the town's semi-professional football club who play at Kirklands in Rock Ferry. They play in the North West Counties League Division One.
Focus on People & Migration: The UK's major urban areas (PDF), Office for National Statistics, 2005, archived from the original (PDF) on 25 August 2008
^ Kelly, Jo (4 December 2009). "Bootle pensioners have shortest life expectancy in UK with Birkenhead OAPs also in bottom ten". Wirral News. Archived from the original on 9 August 2011. Retrieved 4 December 2009.
"Conway Park station opens plus 'Smart' bus service (From Wirral Globe)". 21 July 2011. Archived from the original on 21 July 2011. Retrieved 13 August 2022.
"Bootle pensioners have shortest life expectancy in UK with Birkenhead OAPs also in bottom ten"
Sadler, Michael E. (1904). Report on Secondary Education in Birkenhead. London: George Philip & Son Ltd.
Birkenhead has also produced notable sportsmen such as Matt Dawson, the rugby union player; 'Dixie' Dean (Everton F.C.),[85] record-breaking footballer, who was born at 313 Laird Street; and several other footballers including Peter Davenport, Jason McAteer, David Thompson, Max Power, Jodie Taylor England Lionesses International. The football manager Nigel Adkins also hails from the town.
McCarron, Ken (1991). Meat at Woodside: Birkenhead Livestock Trade, 1878-1981. Merseyside Port Folios. ISBN 9780951612927. OCLC 26313657.
The Wirral Waters development was announced in 2006, with work starting in 2011 and expecting to last for around 30 years.
During winter months, the Isle of Man Steam Packet Company operates a service from Birkenhead to Douglas using MS Ben-my-Chree. Due to weather conditions, this service temporarily replaces the route that normally operates from the Liverpool landing stage using fast craft.
Kelly, Jo (4 December 2009). "Bootle pensioners have shortest life expectancy in UK with Birkenhead OAPs also in bottom ten". Wirral News. Archived from the original on 9 August 2011. Retrieved 4 December 2009.
Birkenhead has a number of maintained schools, including Birkenhead Park School (formed after the merger of Rock Ferry High School and Park High School) and the only all-boys Catholic grammar school in the area St. Anselm's College.
"Teacher makes 'one of the great discoveries of world literature'". 9 August 2022.
^ "Timeline of events". Birkenhead Priory. Retrieved 5 March 2016.
2History											Toggle History subsection																					2.1Medieval period																											2.219th century																											2.320th century																											2.421st century
Boumphrey, Ian (2007b). Birkenhead at War 1939-45. Ian & Marilyn Boumphrey. ISBN 9781899241163. OCLC 650238915.
^ "Conway Park station opens plus 'Smart' bus service (From Wirral Globe)". 21 July 2011. Archived from the original on 21 July 2011. Retrieved 13 August 2022.
Jones, Alan G. (2011). Birkenhead Shipbuilding. Fast Print. ISBN 9781780352114. OCLC 773368902.
"School prepares to make historic move", www.wirralglobe.co.uk, 8 November 2007, retrieved 14 January 2008
It has also produced poets and authors such as A.S.J. Tessimond, Adrian Henri and Michael Z. Williamson. The World War I poet Wilfred Owen, though born in Oswestry, lived in Birkenhead from the age of 4 and was educated at the Birkenhead Institute High School (now demolished). Andreas Whittam Smith, founder editor of The Independent, grew up in Birkenhead, where his father was an Anglican clergyman.[88]
"Merseyrail Network Map" (PDF). Merseytravel. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 December 2008.
Birkenhead's dock system is part of the Port of Liverpool, operated by the Mersey Docks and Harbour Company under the ownership of The Peel Group. The Twelve Quays ferry terminal allows a direct freight and passenger vehicle service to Dublin and Belfast. Daily Belfast services are run by Stena Line, using their RoPax ferries MS Stena Edda and MS Stena Embla from 2020 to 2021,[52] which replaced MS Stena Lagan and MS Stena Mersey.[53] The Mersey Ferry at Woodside operates a passenger service to Liverpool and chartered cruising.
The bus station was opened in 1996. It is adjacent to The Grange shopping centre and Birkenhead Market.
"Station Name: Birkenhead Dock". Disused Stations. Retrieved 3 March 2016.
"Title page of the 1917 Welsh National Eisteddfod programme held at Birkenhead". Archives Hub. Archived from the original on 25 May 2007. Retrieved 18 February 2008.
Roman Catholic churches include the Church of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception and St. Werburgh's Church which are within the Diocese of Shrewsbury.
^ "Stena Line's newest E-Flexer ferry completes sea trials". Baird Maritime. 26 October 2020. Retrieved 6 March 2021.
^ "Cunningham, Sir John Henry Dacres". Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (online ed.). Oxford University Press. 2004. doi:10.1093/ref:odnb/32668. Retrieved 12 October 2012. (Subscription or UK public library membership required.)
HMS Russell was a Duncan-class pre-dreadnought battleship of the Royal Navy commissioned in 1903. Built to counter a group of fast Russian battleships, Russell and her sister ships were capable of steaming at 19 knots (35 km/h; 22 mph), making them the fastest battleships in the world. The Duncan-class battleships were armed with a main battery of four 12-inch (305 mm) guns and they were broadly similar to the London-class battleships, though of a slightly reduced displacement and thinner armour layout. As such, they reflected a development of the lighter second-class ships of the Canopus-class battleship. Russell was built between her keel laying in March 1899 and her completion in February 1903.
Goldrick, James (1984). The King's Ships Were at Sea: The War in the North Sea, August 1914 – February 1915. Annapolis: Naval Institute Press. ISBN 978-0-87021-334-2.
Gibbons, Tony (1983). The Complete Encyclopedia of Battleships and Battlecruisers: A Technical Directory of All the World's Capital Ships From 1860 to the Present Day. London: Salamander Books Ltd. ISBN 978-0-86101-142-1.
Jellicoe, John (1919). The Grand Fleet, 1914–1916: Its Creation, Development, and Work. New York: George H. Doran Company. OCLC 162593478.
The wreck was examined for the first time in 2003 by a British dive team; the ship lies at a depth of 63 fathoms (115 m) about 3.2 nautical miles (6 km) from the Delimara peninsula. Her stern was blown off by the mine.[23]
Naval Operations: To The Battle of the Falklands, December 1914
Corbett, Julian Stafford (1920). Naval Operations: To The Battle of the Falklands, December 1914. Vol. I. London: Longmans, Green & Co. OCLC 174823980.
Russell and her four Duncan-class sisters, as well as the battleships of the King Edward VII class, were temporarily transferred to the Channel Fleet on 2 November 1914 as reinforcements in the face of German Navy activity in the Channel Fleet's area.[5] The following day, the German fleet raided Yarmouth; at the time, Russell and the rest of the 3rd Squadron were dispersed on the Northern Patrol, and were thus unavailable during the German attack.[13] On 13 November 1914 the King Edward VII-class ships returned to the Grand Fleet, but Russell and the other Duncans stayed in the Channel Fleet, where they reconstituted the 6th Battle Squadron on 14 November 1914, with Russell serving as the squadron's flagship. The squadron was based at Portland, although it transferred immediately, 14 November, to Dover. However, due a lack of antisubmarine defences at Dover, particularly after the harbour's anti-submarine boom was swept away in a gale, it returned to Portland on 19 November 1914.[5][14]
"Cunningham, Sir John Henry Dacres". Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (online ed.). Oxford University Press. 2004. doi:10.1093/ref:odnb/32668. Retrieved 12 October 2012. (Subscription or UK public library membership required.)
The King's Ships Were at Sea: The War in the North Sea, August 1914 – February 1915
Russell had a main battery of four 12-inch (305 mm) 40-calibre guns mounted in twin-gun turrets fore and aft. The ships also mounted a secondary battery of twelve 6-inch (152 mm) 45-calibre guns mounted in casemates, in addition to ten 12-pounder 3 in (76 mm) guns and six 3-pounder 47 mm (1.9 in) guns for defence against torpedo boats. As was customary for battleships of the period, she was also equipped with four 18-inch (457 mm) torpedo tubes submerged in the hull.[2]
Russell was named after Edward Russell, 1st Earl of Orford, a former Royal Navy officer and Commander-in-Chief of the Navy in the 17th century. She was laid down by Palmers Shipbuilding and Iron Company at Jarrow on 11 March 1899 and launched on 19 February 1901. She arrived at Sheerness later the same month and went to Chatham Dockyard for steam and gun-mounting trials. Construction of Russell was completed in February 1903.[2] During her sea trials, she was painted in the black and buff paint scheme used during the Victorian period, though after entering service she was repainted in the new grey paint scheme.[4]
Dittmar, F. J. & Colledge, J. J. (1972). British Warships 1914–1919. London: Ian Allan. ISBN 978-0-7110-0380-4.
This page was last edited on 19 February 2023, at 13:52 (UTC).
^ a b c d Lyon & Roberts, p. 37.
Russell was 432 feet (132 m) long overall, with a beam of 75 ft 6 in (23.01 m) and a draft of 25 ft 9 in (7.85 m). The Duncan-class battleships displaced 13,270 to 13,745 long tons (13,483 to 13,966 t) normally and up to 14,900 to 15,200 long tons (15,100 to 15,400 t) fully loaded. Her crew numbered 720 officers and ratings. The Duncan-class ships were powered by a pair of 4-cylinder triple-expansion engines that drove two screws, with steam provided by twenty-four Belleville boilers. The boilers were trunked into two funnels located amidships. The Duncan-class ships had a top speed of 19 knots (35 km/h; 22 mph) from 18,000 indicated horsepower (13,000 kW).[2] This made Russell and her sisters the fastest battleships in the world for several years. At a cruising speed of 10 knots (19 km/h; 12 mph), the ship could steam for 6,070 nautical miles (11,240 km; 6,990 mi).[3]
Parkes, Oscar (1990) [1957]. British Battleships. Annapolis: Naval Institute Press. ISBN 978-1-55750-075-5.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Naval Matters—Past and Prospective: Sheerness Dockyard". The Marine Engineer and Naval Architect. Vol. 37, no. 443. August 1914. p. 7.
2Operational history											Toggle Operational history subsection																					2.1Pre-World War I																											2.2World War I																								2.2.1North Sea and the Channel																											2.2.2Mediterranean
The 6th Battle Squadron returned to Dover in December 1914, then transferred to Sheerness on 30 December to relieve the 5th Battle Squadron there in guarding against a German invasion of the United Kingdom. Between January and May 1915, the 6th Battle Squadron was dispersed. Russell and Albemarle remained with the Grand Fleet through April; on 19 April, they were detached from the fleet base at Rosyth to conduct training exercises in Scapa Flow. They rejoined the fleet for a sortie on 21 April Russell left the squadron in April 1915 and rejoined the 3rd Battle Squadron in the Grand Fleet at Rosyth. She underwent a refit at Belfast in October–November 1915. During this refit she received a pair of 3-inch (76 mm) anti-aircraft guns on her quarterdeck.[17][18]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Naval Matters—Past and Prospective: Sheerness Dockyard". The Marine Engineer and Naval Architect. Vol. 37, no. 443. August 1914. p. 7.
^ Cini, David (18 July 2003). "Deep sea dive recalls WWI sailor's incredible escape". Times of Malta. Retrieved 17 December 2018.
When World War I began in August 1914, plans originally called for Russell and battleships Agamemnon, Albemarle, Cornwallis, Duncan, Exmouth, and Vengeance to combine in the 6th Battle Squadron and serve in the Channel Fleet, where the squadron was to patrol the English Channel and cover the movement of the British Expeditionary Force to France. However, plans also existed for the 6th Battle Squadron to be assigned to the Grand Fleet. When the war began, the Commander-in-Chief, Grand Fleet, Admiral Sir John Jellicoe, requested that Russell and her four surviving sister ships of the Duncan class (Albemarle, Cornwallis, Duncan, and Exmouth) be assigned to the 3rd Battle Squadron in the Grand Fleet for patrol duties to make up for the Grand Fleet's shortage of cruisers. Accordingly, the 6th Battle Squadron was abolished temporarily. Russell, Exmouth, and Albemarle were the only ships in a condition to immediately join Jellicoe, so they left without the rest of the squadron on 5 August. They arrived in Scapa Flow on the night of 7–8 August. The ships worked with Grand Fleet cruisers on the Northern Patrol.[5][11][12]
Corbett, Julian Stafford (1921). Naval Operations: From The Battle of the Falklands to the Entry of Italy Into the War in May 1915. Vol. II. London: Longmans, Green & Co. OCLC 924170059.
According to the naval historian R. A. Burt, insufficient internal subdivision, which limited the ability of the crew to counter-flood to offset underwater damage, contributed significantly to the loss of Russell and her sister Cornwallis, both of which listed badly before sinking.[22]
Preston, p. 9, puts the loss of life at 126 rather than 125
Preston, Antony (1985). "Great Britain and Empire Forces".In Gardiner, Robert & Gray, Randal (eds.). Conway's All the World's Fighting Ships 1906–1921. Annapolis: Naval Institute Press. pp. 1–104. ISBN 978-0-87021-907-8.
Lyon, David & Roberts, John (1979). "Great Britain and Empire Forces".In Chesneau, Roger & Kolesnik, Eugene M. (eds.). Conway's All the World's Fighting Ships 1860–1905. Greenwich: Conway Maritime Press. pp. 1–113. ISBN 978-0-85177-133-5.
Full load: 14,900 to 15,200 long tons (15,100 to 15,400 t)
In 1909, Russell had her armament overhauled, which included the installation of new traversing and elevation gear and sighting equipment. She also had identification bands painted onto her funnels. On 30 July 1909, Russell transferred to the Mediterranean Fleet. Under a fleet reorganisation of 1 May 1912, the Mediterranean Fleet became the 4th Battle Squadron, First Fleet, Home Fleet, and changed its base from Malta to Gibraltar;[7] Russell transferred to home waters in August 1912.[8] In September 1913, Russell was reduced to a nucleus crew in the commissioned reserve and assigned to the 6th Battle Squadron, Second Fleet. Beginning in December 1913, she served as Flagship, 6th Battle Squadron, and Flagship, Rear Admiral, Home Fleet, at the Nore. During this period, the ship had her anti-torpedo nets removed.[9]
Russell had an armoured belt that was 7 in (178 mm) thick; the transverse bulkhead on the aft end of the belt was 7 to 11 in (178 to 279 mm) thick. Her main battery turrets' sides were 8 to 10 in (203 to 254 mm) thick, atop 11 in (279 mm) barbettes, and the casemate battery was protected with 6 in of Krupp steel. Her conning tower had 12-inch-thick sides. She was fitted with two armoured decks, 1 and 2 in (25 and 51 mm) thick, respectively.[2]
On 7–8 July 1914, Russell ferried representatives of the British government, led by Lord Beauchamp, from Dover to Guernsey to attend the unveiling of a monument to Victor Hugo. French government representatives were carried by the French cruiser Dupetit-Thouars.[10]
On 6 November 1915, a division of the 3rd Battle Squadron consisting of battleships Hibernia (the flagship), Zealandia, Albemarle, and Russell was detached from the Grand Fleet to reinforce the British Dardanelles Squadron in the Gallipoli Campaign at the Gallipoli Peninsula. Russell was at that time in Belfast, and she joined the other ships while they were en route. Albemarle had to turn back almost immediately due to heavy weather damage, but the other ships continued to the Mediterranean, where Russell took up her duties at the Dardanelles in December 1915, based at Mudros with Hibernia and held back in support.Her only action in the campaign was her participation in the evacuation of Cape Helles from 7 January to 9 January 1916, and she was the last battleship of the British Dardanelles Squadron to leave the area. She relieved Hibernia as Divisional Flagship, Rear Admiral, in January 1916.[8][19][20]
Normal: 13,270 to 13,745 long tons (13,483 to 13,966 t)
Cini, David (18 July 2003). "Deep sea dive recalls WWI sailor's incredible escape". Times of Malta. Retrieved 17 December 2018.
Corbett, Julian Stafford (1923). Naval Operations: The Dardanelles Campaign. Vol. III. London: Longmans, Green & Co. OCLC 174824081.
Pears, Randolph (1979). British Battleships 1892–1957: The Great Days of the Fleets. London: G. Cave Associates. ISBN 978-0-906223-14-7.
The six ships of the Duncan class were ordered in response to the Russian Peresvet-class battleships that had been launched in 1898. The Russian ships were fast second-class battleships, so William Henry White, the British Director of Naval Construction, designed the Duncan class to match the purported top speed of the Russian vessels. To achieve the higher speed while keeping displacement from growing, White was forced to reduce the ships' armour protection significantly, effectively making the ships enlarged and improved versions of the Canopus-class battleships of 1896, rather than derivatives of the more powerful Majestic, Formidable, and London series of first-class battleships. The Duncans proved to be disappointments in service, owing to their reduced defensive characteristics, though they were still markedly superior to the Peresvets they had been built to counter.[1]
"The Tercentenary Celebrations". The Canada Gazette. London: Charles Hunt: 445. 1908. OCLC 47522100.
Russell served with the Mediterranean Fleet until 1904, at which time she was transferred to the Home Fleet; in 1905 the Home Fleet became the Channel Fleet. She moved to the Atlantic Fleet in early 1907 before returning to the Mediterranean Fleet in 1909. In another fleet reorganisation in 1912, the Mediterranean Fleet became part of the Home Fleet and it was later transferred to British waters. Russell served as the flagship of the 6th Battle Squadron from late 1913 until the outbreak of the First World War in August 1914.
After the conclusion of the Dardanelles campaign, Russell stayed on in the eastern Mediterranean. Russell was steaming off Malta early on the morning of 27 April 1916 when she struck two naval mines that had been laid by the German submarine U-73. A fire broke out in the after part of the ship and the order to abandon ship was passed; after an explosion near the after 12-inch (305 mm) turret, she took on a dangerous list. However, she sank slowly, allowing most of her crew to escape. A total of 27 officers and 98 ratings were lost.[19][Note 1] John H. D. Cunningham served aboard her at the time as a lieutenant commander and survived her sinking; he would one day become First Sea Lord.[21]
Burt, R. A. (2013) [1988]. British Battleships 1889–1904. Barnsley: Seaforth Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84832-173-1.
Coordinates: .mw-parser-output .geo-default,.mw-parser-output .geo-dms,.mw-parser-output .geo-dec{display:inline}.mw-parser-output .geo-nondefault,.mw-parser-output .geo-multi-punct{display:none}.mw-parser-output .longitude,.mw-parser-output .latitude{white-space:nowrap}35°54′N 14°36′E﻿ / ﻿35.900°N 14.600°E﻿ / 35.900; 14.600
After the start of the war, Russell was assigned to the Grand Fleet and worked with the fleet's cruisers on the Northern Patrol, and in November, she bombarded German-occupied Zeebrugge. In November 1915 she was sent to the Mediterranean to support the Dardanelles Campaign, though she did not see extensive use there. On 27 April 1916 she was sailing off Malta when she struck two mines laid by a German U-boat. Most of her crew survived the sinking, though 125 men were killed.
The 6th Battle Squadron was given a mission of bombarding German submarine bases on the coast of Belgium, and Russell participated in the bombardment of German submarine facilities at Zeebrugge on 23 November 1914 in company with Exmouth. The two ships left Portland on 21 November accompanied by eight destroyers, a group of trawlers, and a pair of airships to observe the fall of shot, though the airships failed to arrive in time for the operation. Russell and Exmouth closed to 6,000 yards (5,500 m) of the port and shelled the harbour, the railroad station, and coastal defences. The two ships fired some 400 shells in total and observed several fires ashore; reports from Dutch observers indicated significant damage had been inflicted,[15] but the attack achieved very little and discouraged the Royal Navy from continuing such bombardments.[16]
^ Preston, p. 9, puts the loss of life at 126 rather than 125
