Find sources: "Political opportunism" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Political opportunism is interpreted in different ways, but usually refers to one or more of the following:
The counter-argument to this interpretation is that politicians may start out in their career as hopeful idealists aiming to serve the community, but as soon as they become deeply entangled in political processes, they abandon their high ideals because they must reconcile many contradictory situations, and in the process begin to compromise themselves. Their political position, originally a means to a higher end, becomes an end in itself: a lifestyle.
^ Inaugural speech of the thirty-fifth President of the United States,Washington, D.C., January 20, 1961, reprinted in Profiles in Courage (1961, reprinted Harper/Collins, 2006)
Few actions are intrinsically opportunist; they are opportunist in a specific context, or from a specific point of view about means-ends relationships involved. This may make an objective approach to assessing the presence of opportunism quite difficult, because it may require a lot of "inside knowledge" about the relevant circumstances and about the motives involved.
This page was last edited on 2 July 2022, at 06:57 (UTC).
How political principles are to be implemented is therefore usually open to some interpretation, and in part a personal responsibility. This creates the possibility that the same action is justifiable with reference to different principles, or that how a principle should be put into practice is interpreted in different ways. Just how "principled" an action is may therefore be open to dispute.[16] Hence there is potential for deception in the way that principled behaviour, and deviation from it, is understood and justified. This becomes critically important in understanding opportunism insofar as it is a departure from principled behaviour.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Political opportunism" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
A political tendency that has been outmaneuvered or side-lined may latch on to any kind of opportunity to claw its way back to a position of power and influence. Conversely, a very powerful political group may use its power for opportunistic purposes because it knows that criticism of such action has no real effect (it is possible to "get away with it", i.e. the permissible).
The political philosophy of Niccolò Machiavelli as described in The Prince is often regarded as a classic manual of opportunist scheming, and indeed a Machiavellian is nowadays defined as "a cunning, amoral, and opportunist person, especially a politician".[2]
^ E.g. As'ad AbuKhalil, "Yusuf Al-Qaradawi and Political Opportunism". Al Alakhbar English, 28 March 2012.[6] Archived 2014-02-09 at the Wayback Machine
Often the opportunist operates in a situation where there exist many unknowns, and where there is no broad agreement on how one should respond to the situation in a principled way.[12] Far-sighted leadership is required, but in the absence of authoritative knowledge. In that case, whether behaviour is opportunist or not, may simply be very difficult to judge. A true opportunist is likely to utilize precisely this ambiguity to serve his purpose, capitalizing on human gullibility or ignorance.
Normally, there must be at least some freedom in how political principles are formulated, interpreted, and actually applied; if there are too many rules and principles that people have to adhere to, the result would very likely be, that they simply cannot conform to those principles in practice, or that the bewildering complexity of rules can no longer guide behaviour. In that case, all kinds of errors are likely to occur.
it is easy to get excited about the possibilities of the future but the main priority should be to make decisions based on the reality, about what is happening currently and keeping a close eye on the facts. If today is not managed well, our dreams, visions and thoughts about the future will become stifled. When one does not commit to what is done but instead treats what ought to be done as ones own course, then one sooner brings one's own ruin rather than preservation.[4]
^ "NEVER BRING OTHERS TO POWER The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
"Press Accuracy Rating Hits Two Decade Low; Public Evaluations of the News Media: 1985-2009". Pew Research Center for the People & the Press, press release 13 September 2009.[9]
It becomes difficult or impossible to explain why a political policy was really opted for and followed,or what can justify it, or why what was done, was done. Political appraisals begin to look arbitrary, relativistic and subjective. And that promotes a growing discrepancy between the motives political actors said they had, and their real motives—which breeds cynicism, loss of purpose, lack of accountability, and the loss of the aspiration to work for political ideals.
^ "Press Accuracy Rating Hits Two Decade Low; Public Evaluations of the News Media: 1985-2009". Pew Research Center for the People & the Press, press release 13 September 2009.[9]
"NEVER BRING OTHERS TO POWER The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli"
"DESTROY, DO NOT WOUND The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
An objective, rational evaluation of whether a course of action is opportunist or not can only be stated in terms of whether the action and its motivation really did, or did not represent relevant principles (a consistency of means and ends); or whether it was motivated by self-interest or sectional interests rather than the common interest of the party (or parties) represented. Yet insofar as allegations of opportunism reflect a moral judgment, they may also contain a subjective interpretation, emotional preference or partisan viewpoint.[19]
^ E.g. Chris Arsenault, "Nicaragua's Ortega: Socialism to opportunism?". Al Jazeera English, 8 November 2011.[7]
Populism: this is often regarded as an intrinsically opportunist and unprincipled form of politics, catering to the "lowest common denominator". In that case, politicians advocate policies primarily on the basis that they think a lot of people will support them (and therefore useful to maintain or increase support), or that if a particular leader endorses policies, people will follow because they believe in the leader, even regardless of whether the policies are consistent with principles.
^ "BE PRESENT The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
Money-Based Versus Exchange-Rate-Based Stabilization: Is There Space for Political Opportunism?
"The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule"
Opportunistic behavior may occur in strategic alliances, in which one party uses the relationship to better its position, often at the expense of the other. In this case, one party puts its own interests ahead of the agreed goals of the alliance.
Marc Tracy, "Congress cuts P.A. aid; 'political opportunism'". Tablet, 4 October 2011.[8]
David Brooks, "The upside of opportunism". New York Times, 29 October 2012, p. A27.
E.g. As'ad AbuKhalil, "Yusuf Al-Qaradawi and Political Opportunism". Al Alakhbar English, 28 March 2012.[6] Archived 2014-02-09 at the Wayback Machine
a trend of thought, or a political tendency, seeking to make political capital out of situations with the main aim being that of gaining more influence, prestige or support, instead of truly winning people over to a principled position or improving their political understanding.
Inaugural speech of the thirty-fifth President of the United States,Washington, D.C., January 20, 1961, reprinted in Profiles in Courage (1961, reprinted Harper/Collins, 2006)
"In this world, laws are written for the lofty aim of "the common good", and then acted out in life on the basis of the common greed. In this world, irrationality clings to man like his shadow, so that the right things are done for the wrong reasons — afterwards, we dredge up the right reasons for justification."[18]
"Power corrupts, but its real corruption is among those who wait upon it, seeking place, jostling with rivals, nursing jealousies, forming expedient cabals, flaunting preferment, crowing at the humiliation of a demoted favourite." – John Keegan, The mask of command. Penguin edition, 1988, p. 89.
Normally principles are therefore understood as a guide to behaviour that assumes both some freedom for individual judgment about how they are to be applied, as well as the responsibility to apply them. If one acts "in good faith", one assumes that relevant principles will be honored in practice, and if that faith is disappointed, that is because in practice the principles were not applied consistently or appropriately.
the practice of abandoning or compromising in reality some important political principles that were previously held, in the process of trying to increase one's political power and influence.
"NEVER BRING OTHERS TO POWER The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
Since the majority could be quite wrong in regard to particular issues, however, adapting to that majority opinion on those issues might, in a specific context, be an even bigger error than "keeping one's principles pure". This is acknowledged in democratic theory to the extent that democracy is normally thought to involve the civil right of dissent from majority opinion, and consequently also the civil right of a minority viewpoint to exist. It implies that the majority could be wrong, and that the minority could be right, something that could never be corrected efficiently, if minority viewpoints were simply silenced. Because in that case, the minority might not be able to become a majority, even if experience proved the minority correct. That is why it is especially important to evaluate criticisms of "opportunism" in context.
Continual political opportunism ultimately reduces the scope of politics to a visionless realpolitik or a barren pragmatism that may only function to maintain the status quo, and in which people deceive themselves about their own motivations and those of others. This makes life even more difficult for politicians, in their attempt to persuade people to work together for common goals. According to journalist Adam Nagourney, "Many Americans are more likely to assume that anyone they read or see on television has a political bias."[21] Yet what that bias is, might not be obvious anymore. In 2009, a Pew Research Center survey found that only 29% of Americans believe that the media "gets the facts straight" and only 18% thought that media stories "deal fairly with all sides".[22]
To some extent, politics unavoidably involves dilemmas about whether to insist on one's own principles (and risk being isolated) or to adapt to a more widely held opinion for the sake of working together. People may be very unwilling to take risks and respond to opportunities, or they may take risks and opportunities without much regard for their overall significance. Accordingly, most political situations involve at least some potential for opportunism.
^ See Robert Michels, Political Parties. New York: Dover, 1959, chapter 3, and Ernest Mandel, "What is the bureaucracy?", in: Tariq Ali (ed.), The Stalinist Legacy. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1984, p. 61-62).
The term "political opportunism" is often used in a pejorative sense, mainly because it connotes the abandonment of principles or compromising political goals.[14] In that case, the original relationship between means and ends is lost. It may indeed be the case that means become ends in themselves, or that the ends become the means to achieve goals quite different from what was originally intended.[15] Political principles can also be "diluted", reinterpreted or ignored, purely for the sake of promoting a contrived political unity. In consequence, a coherent rationale for being in the same organization is gradually lost; members may then drift away or the organization may decline, split or disintegrate.
^ "DESTROY, DO NOT WOUND The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
believing that you must know the mind of the ruler or political opponent to know what will occur. Knowing their wants, their intents, which way their mind is turning, which way they will head or where they are drawing back from of the figure in question will explain what will occur. This has explanatory value in the goings on of and of the combining of alliances, making of pacts and signing of agreements for a cause.
indulge the weaker powers in a way that does not create them any power or share power, make sure the powerful are overthrown if they pose a threat or significant opposition, do not allow foreign powers to gain a reputation or have authority in owns land. One may give people status, benefits, security, safety or wealth but let those of a lower standing earn their own power. Increasing your power in turn enfeebles others of a lesser standing, conversely increasing somebody else's power if they are of lesser standing enfeebles yourself because they can turn on you. Appeasing others to avoid conflict elevates their position which is disadvantageous for a ruler to do. Making alliances too strong may turn on you.[5]
Suivisme: Some political analysts find the source of opportunism in a specific political methodology that is applied to maintain or increase political influence. An example might be so-called suivisme (a French word for political "tail-ending" or "tailism") where people try to follow and infiltrate any movement that shows signs of being popular or capturing significant support, for the purpose of gaining influence. Another version of this is sampling public opinions with surveys and focus groups to discover what they think, to contrive policies that are popular. This is usually not regarded as genuine leadership by politicians who know what they are doing, and who know what their constituency wants from personal experience. The opportunist tail-enders don't have any ideas themselves that lead to success, so they parasitize or plagiarize what others are doing in a bid to get a success. An extreme version of this is astroturfing.
Means become ends: a more general source of political opportunism is simply the great urge to achieve political success, to be successful, where success is defined as attaining a position of power, authority and influence (which in turn makes it possible to enact one's own policy). A politics is in truth successful only if the principles it advocates are really put into practice by a large number of people, or a majority of the people, in other words if people are really persuaded by an argument and act accordingly. In a principled politics, wielding power is only a means to this end: to restrain or change the behavioural patterns of citizens in ways thought to be beneficial to society. In opportunist politics, however, wielding power has become an end in itself, and the opportunist is the one who gains from it.
Political integrity typically demands an appropriate combination of principled positions and political flexibility that produces a morally consistent behavior in specific circumstances. Thus, whereas it may be necessary to seize a political opportunity when it presents itself, it should ideally be seized also with an appropriate motivation, and on a principled basis—which is basically what a leader of an increasingly large group aims to accomplish: to ensure that the right things are done for the right reasons.
^ "ACQUIRE WHEN YOU CAN The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
This counter-argument may have some validity, but has not proved that the suggested political evolution is inevitable in all cases. Namely, the politician owes power only to anability to serve a greater cause, and the ability to represent people based on popular perceptions and trust. Therefore, the ability to serve exclusively according to self-interest is limited. At best, the counter-argument indicates that only the strongest characters can withstand the temptations of opportunist behaviour in politics, and maintain personal and political integrity. It may be not so much the politicians themselves who are opportunist, but rather their entourage: those who "climb on the political bandwagon" to profit from it for themselves. In this sense, John Keegan writes:
Accusations of "opportunism" may be made without proof being available, and they may be open to debate. In this sense, Milton Friedman remarked that "One man's opportunism is another man's statesmanship".[10] A politician might for instance argue that, although his action seems unprincipled at first sight, when placed in a broader perspective it conforms exactly to what his constituency believes in. In an act of persuasion, he aims to convince people that his action is principled. Whether he is correct or not, may however be knowable only with the benefit of hindsight, long after the action occurred; the total effect of a strategic political decision may not be known until years or even decades after it was taken. When the outcome of an action is uncertain, a politician might argue, "History will prove me right."[11]
According to a popular saying, "there is no such thing as an honest politician" (politicians will accentuate certain truths at the expense of other truths), but there is such a thing as a "principled" politician working within clearly defined moral boundaries, which rule out doing "just anything". A politician may be a "clever talker" who can justify anything, but if there is a big discrepancy between the talk and what is actually being done, people are usually unlikely to believe it for very long. They know that things "do not match up", even if they do not know exactly why, and may become indifferent to whatever is being said.
people do not criticize a success story or successful leader, any means of acquiring success heaps praise upon one, but failure to do so gets blame and criticism by the press and people, that is fully deserved because it's more interesting to all people. One must strive to become a leader, get arms and be less dependent on others to be well renowned in state craft and one must acquire when one can.[7]
^ Playboy magazine, February 1973 issue. Quoted in The cynic's lexicon: a dictionary of amoral advice by Jonathon Green (Routledge 1984), p. 77. The interviewer, Michael Laurence, asked "Aren’t you saying that there’s been a large element of political opportunism in Nixon’s reversals?" and Friedman replied: "One man’s opportunism is another’s statesmanship. There is a very delicate balance between the two in our society. Good politics is what we should demand from our politicians—to a degree. We don’t want our leaders to charge off in every direction trying to satisfy the latest public whim, but neither do we want them to completely ignore the will of the people. I think Nixon acted properly. The real problem is educating the public, and there he was unsuccessful."[3] The interview is reprinted in Milton Friedman, There’s No Such Thing as a Free Lunch. La Salle, IL: Open Court, 1975 and in: Milton Friedman, Bright Promises, Dismal Performance: An Economist’s Protest. (ed. William R. Allen). New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1983.
don't settle on merely undermining ones enemies, one must try to overcome them and vanquish their hold of power. Treat people well or completely overcome them, anything in between could create a formidable enemy. Renewing wounds or slights every day won't keep mens mind at rest and bring them over to your side when it's time to start giving out benefits.[6]
Pierpont, Claudia Roth (7 September 2008). "The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule". www.newyorker.com. Retrieved 5 June 2019.
This ideal may be difficult to honor in practice, with the result that opportunistic mistakes are made. In his famous book Rules for Radicals,[17] community organizer Saul Alinsky for instance comments that in political organizations, quite often the right things are done for the wrong reasons, and conversely that the wrong things are done for perfectly "correct" reasons – presumably because of differentials in the existing understandings about why something is actually being done, and what the real effect of it will be. If power is wielded by means of special knowledge others don't have access to, such differentials are obviously likely to persist. This is likely to be the case, insofar as confidentiality and secrecy are necessary in politics – if the wrong people get hold of vital information, this could have unfavourable political effects. Thus, people may know "part of the story" but not the "full story" because, for political reasons, it cannot be told. The corollary is that people imagine reasons for political action that differ from the real reasons. This can get in the way of a truly principled approach to politics. In fact, Alinsky claimed that:
Thus, there may not be any generally applicable rule or technique (a "philosopher's stone") that could be invoked in advance to prevent opportunism. At best, one could be aware of the possibility that opportunism could become a real problem, and take steps to minimize the risk. Generally, that risk is minimized if people ensure that they can always explain clearly the relationship between chosen means and ends vis-a-vis the basic principles that guide them, i.e. to understand exactly why they are doing things and what motivates them.
See e.g. Caroline B. Glick, "Column one: Israel's premier opportunist". In: Jerusalem Post, 22 July 2011.[1]
Risk management: some analysts see opportunism as originating in perceptions of the relative magnitudes of risk associated with different policy alternatives. Here, it is argued that the larger a political organization grows, and the more influence it has, the less likely it is, that it will pursue policies that could potentially result in the loss of the gains it has previously made. The bigger the political movement gets, the more is at stake. It would be more likely that an organization will compromise its principles to maintain its position than to continue pursuing its principles regardless of the consequences. Or, at the very least, the greater the political influence obtained, the more pressure exists to compromise one's political principles[20]
You may improve this section, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new section, as appropriate.
"Machiavellian definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary". www.collinsdictionary.com. Retrieved 2019-03-17.
Sometimes it is argued that opportunist errors are preferable to sectarian or factional errors. Whatever his "sins" may be interpreted to be, it is argued, the political opportunist prioritizes gaining or maintaining influence among people, and therefore at least remains among majority opinion or "among the masses". In contrast, the sectarian or factionalist is likely to uphold his principles or beliefs regardless of any experience that might contradict them, and regardless of how many people support them; he attaches supreme importance to espousing his principles with an exaggerated belief in the power of ideas, no matter what others believe. This leads to political isolation and permits little experiential verification of the validity of political ideas. Sectarianism and opportunism might however also combine, to the extent that a sect believes that almost any trick is permissible to attract more members to the sect.
In politics, it is sometimes necessary to insist on political principles, while at other times it is necessary to insist on political unity among people who differ in their beliefs or principles. Some compromises usually have to be made. If political principles were typically defined or imposed in a completely inflexible, non-negotiable way, a likely result would be sectarianism or factionalism, since few people beyond "true believers" could support a political practice based on such rigid positions.
a political style of aiming to increase one's political influence at any price, or a political style that involves seizing every and any opportunity to extend political influence, whenever such opportunities arise.
a political leader may have the greatest army but without support of the people in the country or province they are invading, they will not have a victory. Victory must be achieved by winning the favor of the people.[3]
If opportunist politics, in its urge for success, confuses what a political movement really stands for, or continually changes its story to suit the moment, any profound evaluation of its experiential record becomes impossible, and the past can be re-interpreted in any number of ways to suit the political purposes of the present or those of the future. In turn, that undermines the possibility of cumulative and collective learning from political experience in a truthful way. In that case, the errors and problems of the past are more likely to be repeated. Normally one would say that "if a course of action doesn't work, try something else", but if it is no longer even clear what worked and what didn't in the past, or they are mixed up with each other, current political activity may keep reproducing the problematic patterns and traditions, the essence of which the political actors are only dimly aware of.
E.g. Chris Arsenault, "Nicaragua's Ortega: Socialism to opportunism?". Al Jazeera English, 8 November 2011.[7]
"BE PRESENT The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
See Robert Michels, Political Parties. New York: Dover, 1959, chapter 3, and Ernest Mandel, "What is the bureaucracy?", in: Tariq Ali (ed.), The Stalinist Legacy. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1984, p. 61-62).
^ See e.g. Caroline B. Glick, "Column one: Israel's premier opportunist". In: Jerusalem Post, 22 July 2011.[1]
^ A famous text by Fidel Castro is titled "History will absolve me". More recently, Tony Blair and George W. Bush defended the invasion of Iraq to overthrow the regime of Saddam Hussein stating that history would prove that this was the right thing to do. See: Roland Watson, "Bush echoes Blair with 'history will prove me right'", The Times (London), 31 July 2003.[4]
The tragedy of opportunist politics is often that, by forsaking principles to make political gains, it becomes difficult or impossible to distinguish and evaluate political success and failure appropriately, and draw appropriate conclusions. Because for such an evaluation, it must be possible to specify clearly to what extent it has been possible to realize the agreed principles being advocated (how far a political movement has progressed toward realizing its aims). If it is not even clear anymore what those principles are, a failure may be hailed as a success, or a success decried as a failure, giving rise to intense disputes about their real significance. It may create disorientation and confusion that, in turn, opportunists use to further their aims.
Political opportunism refers to the attempt to maintainpolitical support, or to increase politicalinfluence[citation needed] - possibly in a way which disregards relevant ethical or politicalprinciples.[1]
^ Saul Alinsky, Rules for Radicals. New York: Random House, 1971, p. 76.
^ Marc Tracy, "Congress cuts P.A. aid; 'political opportunism'". Tablet, 4 October 2011.[8]
If "there is no such thing as an honest politician", this need not mean that all politicians are liars, but just that they are often not in a position to know or reveal the "complete picture" and thus express selected truths relevant to their actions, rather than all possible truths that could be told. In that sense, it is quite possible to be a "principled" politician – if that was not so, then (arguably) all politicians are opportunists. Yet if all politicians are opportunists—as many cynics believe—it becomes difficult to explain a politician'sprofessional motivations . Namely, if their purpose is based only or primarily on self-interest—disregarding higher principles, which is the hallmark of opportunism—then politics is the least likely vocation, since it requires that politicians serve a collective interest or cause bigger than themselves. They would then be better off in a line of business where they can just pursue their own interest to the full. If they are able to be politicians, they could easily do so. The question is then why they don't, if indeed only out to serve themselves.
Saul Alinsky, Rules for Radicals. New York: Random House, 1971, p. 76.
A famous text by Fidel Castro is titled "History will absolve me". More recently, Tony Blair and George W. Bush defended the invasion of Iraq to overthrow the regime of Saddam Hussein stating that history would prove that this was the right thing to do. See: Roland Watson, "Bush echoes Blair with 'history will prove me right'", The Times (London), 31 July 2003.[4]
^ Compare for example:.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Aisen, Ari (2004). Money-Based Versus Exchange-Rate-Based Stabilization: Is There Space for Political Opportunism?. IMF Working Paper. Vol. WP/04/94. International Monetary Fund. p. 3. Retrieved 26 January 2020. Political opportunism is broadly defined throughout the paper as the policymaker's choice of a particular policy taking into account the timing of elections.
Most politicians are "opportunists" to some extent at least (they aim to utilize political opportunities creatively to their advantage, and have to try new initiatives), but the controversies surrounding the concept concern the exact relationship between "seizing a political opportunity" and the political principles being espoused. In other words, the question is "how far you can go" without compromising principles or abandoning an agreed-on code of ethics. There may be no quick and easy answer to that, because whether a transgression has occurred cannot be verified, is known only later, or is in dispute. This happens particularly in a new situation where it is uncertain how principles should be applied, or how people should respond to it.
"ACQUIRE WHEN YOU CAN The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
"We shall need compromises in the days ahead, to be sure. But these will be, or should be, compromises of issues, not principles. We can compromise our political positions, but not ourselves. We can resolve the clash of interests without conceding our ideals. And even the necessity for the right kind of compromise does not eliminate the need for those idealists and reformers who keep our compromises moving ahead, who prevent all political situations from meeting the description supplied by Shaw: "smirched with compromise, rotted with opportunism, mildewed by expedience, stretched out of shape with wirepulling and putrefied with permeation... Compromise need not mean cowardice.” – John F. Kennedy[13]
^ "Machiavellian definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary". www.collinsdictionary.com. Retrieved 2019-03-17.
^ Jürgen Habermas accused Angela Merkel of opportunism in the following terms: "Since the Greek crisis erupted in May 2010 and Merkel's Christian Democrats lost the state election in North Rhine-Westphalia, she has subordinated each of her considered steps to the opportunism of staying in power." Der Spiegel English edition, 9 August 2013.[5]
Compare for example:.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Aisen, Ari (2004). Money-Based Versus Exchange-Rate-Based Stabilization: Is There Space for Political Opportunism?. IMF Working Paper. Vol. WP/04/94. International Monetary Fund. p. 3. Retrieved 26 January 2020. Political opportunism is broadly defined throughout the paper as the policymaker's choice of a particular policy taking into account the timing of elections.
^ David Brooks, "The upside of opportunism". New York Times, 29 October 2012, p. A27.
Jürgen Habermas accused Angela Merkel of opportunism in the following terms: "Since the Greek crisis erupted in May 2010 and Merkel's Christian Democrats lost the state election in North Rhine-Westphalia, she has subordinated each of her considered steps to the opportunism of staying in power." Der Spiegel English edition, 9 August 2013.[5]
Playboy magazine, February 1973 issue. Quoted in The cynic's lexicon: a dictionary of amoral advice by Jonathon Green (Routledge 1984), p. 77. The interviewer, Michael Laurence, asked "Aren’t you saying that there’s been a large element of political opportunism in Nixon’s reversals?" and Friedman replied: "One man’s opportunism is another’s statesmanship. There is a very delicate balance between the two in our society. Good politics is what we should demand from our politicians—to a degree. We don’t want our leaders to charge off in every direction trying to satisfy the latest public whim, but neither do we want them to completely ignore the will of the people. I think Nixon acted properly. The real problem is educating the public, and there he was unsuccessful."[3] The interview is reprinted in Milton Friedman, There’s No Such Thing as a Free Lunch. La Salle, IL: Open Court, 1975 and in: Milton Friedman, Bright Promises, Dismal Performance: An Economist’s Protest. (ed. William R. Allen). New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1983.
Typically, opportunist political behavior is criticized for being short-sighted or narrow-minded.[8] That is, in the urge to make short-term political gains or preserve them, the appropriate relationship between the means being used and the overall goals being aimed for is overlooked. The result might well be, that "short term gain" leads to "long term pain". Thus, after opportunist mistakes have been made and recognized, a lot of soul searching may occur, or "a return to principles" may be advocated, so that the proper relationship between people's principles and their actions is restored.[9]
^ Pierpont, Claudia Roth (7 September 2008). "The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule". www.newyorker.com. Retrieved 5 June 2019.
In the theory of evolution, "evolutionary opportunism" refers to a specific pattern of development in the history of a species. The behavior, culture or body part of a species that long ago evolved to serve a particular purpose or function may subsequently lend itself to a verydifferent positive purpose or function that helps the species to survive.[20] Thus, in a new stage of evolution, a long-existing behavior, culture, or physical characteristic can respond to a wholly new opportunity and acquire a new role. It turns out to have new advantages or potential benefits the species previously never used—and, therefore, the species retains an adaptation even if the original purpose it served is long gone.
Kurt Eggert, "Limiting abuse and opportunism by mortgage servicers". In: Housing Policy Debate (Fannie Mae Foundation), Vol. 15, Issue 3, 2004."Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-05-15. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
"See e.g. Elif Çağlı, "A Dangerous Tendency: Opportunism"". Archived from the original on 2010-08-16. Retrieved 2010-07-11.
refuse to respond to an opportunity, only because responding to it might forfeit influence, support, wealth or popularity, even although taking the opportunity would in truth be consistent with the principles being subscribed to.
^ Brunner, Othmar A (2019). ihuman. Writers Republic LLC. p. 380. ISBN 9781646200290.
Capitalist society is itself founded on the exploitation of the labour of others and on unequal exchange. This is enabled by the ownership or control of assets, money and credit that investors use to extract unearned income from the work of others who have to sell their work capacity to survive. It makes it possible for private owners of capital to claim more resources than they have themselves produced or contributed to society. Owning property is rewarded more and more, and working to create it is rewarded less and less.[40]
Luke Johnson, "A new lexicon to celebrate capitalism", Financial Times, October 25, 2011.
Reinhard Bachmann and Akbar Zaheer (eds.), Handbook of trust research. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, 2006, p. 201.
Although in many societies opportunism often has a strong negative moral connotation, it may also be defined more neutrally as putting self-interest before other interests when there is an opportunity to do so, or flexibly adapting to changing circumstances to maximize self-interest (though usually in a way that negates some principle previously followed).
Provided and shared only because of their cooperation, or being together.
Find sources: "Opportunism" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ "See e.g. Elif Çağlı, "A Dangerous Tendency: Opportunism"". Archived from the original on 2010-08-16. Retrieved 2010-07-11.
^ Richard Swedberg, interview with Kenneth Arrow, in: Richard Swedberg, Economics and Sociology. Redefining their boundaries: conversations with economists and sociologists. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1990, p. 137.
Nicolai J. Foss and Peter G. Klein, "Critiques of transaction cost economics: An overview". Organizations and markets, September 2009 [11]
Predicaments: The propensity of opportunist behavior is influenced by the general life-situations that people find themselves in. If one's own position is strong and secure, it may be much easier to be an opportunist – because if it would result in losses and failures, those losses and failures can be easily sustained given the resources available. Conversely, a person's existence may be so precarious, that he has "nothing to lose" by seizing any opportunity available to benefit himself. Opportunist behavior can be self-reinforcing: if there is a lot of opportunism, then not to be opportunist oneself would mean that competitors take advantage of that, and therefore people can be forced into an opportunist role as a defensive strategy.
reneging (in contracts), where a contractual agreement, promise, intention or understanding of a deal is not fully honored by a party to the contract, for selfish motives, because it is possible "to get away with it" and/or because there is an incentive to do so.[31]
lack any deeper principled foundation, and are more an "eclectic, self-serving concoction"
Taken together, these five factors make it difficult for any individual or group to reconcile self-interest with the general interest, genuinely and durably, and it means that moral double standards are very pervasive.[44]In turn, that creates a total environment where opportunism can flourish – including within the socialist movement. In fact, "opportunism" as a political term began to be used widely among Marxists, when the parliamentarians from the leading party of the Second International, the German Social Democratic Party, voted in favour of the war credits necessary at the beginning of World War I.[45]Marxist critics argued that this policy was a total abandonment of socialist principles, especially the principle of anti-militarism and the international solidarity of the working class.[46] Since that time, opportunism has been often defined by Marxists as a policy that puts special interests ahead of the interests of the working class[47]
take a risk for the purpose of gaining/maintaining influence, support, wealth or popularity, although taking this risk is inconsistent with the principles being espoused.
See Karl Marx, Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts 1844. Moscow: Progress Publishers, 1959.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Opportunism" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Kenneth Arrow explains that markets require trust to operate effectively, but that trust may not be spontaneously generated by market activity:
In opportunism, life is viewed as holding an infinite amount of opportunity, where the pattern of one's responses to each defines their identity. It can also be viewed as striving to realize or express certain principles. However, the moral dilemma implied by opportunism concerns the conflict of self-interest with the interests of others, or with following a principle: either to do what one wants or to do "what is the right thing to do". Thus, substantively, opportunism refers tothe acting on opportunities in a self-interested, biased or one-sided manner that conflicts or contrasts in some way with one or more general rule, law, norm, or principle.
^ Luke Johnson, "A new lexicon to celebrate capitalism", Financial Times, October 25, 2011.
^ Timmermans, Elisabeth; Van den Bulck, Jan (2018). "Casual Sexual Scripts on the Screen: A Quantitative Content Analysis". Archives of Sexual Behavior. 47 (5): 1481–1496. doi:10.1007/s10508-018-1147-1. ISSN 0004-0002. PMC 5954064. PMID 29589163.
^ See Karl Marx, Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts 1844. Moscow: Progress Publishers, 1959.
Sexual opportunism is the selfish pursuit of sexual opportunities for their own sake when they arise, often with the negative moral connotation that in some way it "takes advantage" of others, or "makes use" of, or "exploits", other persons for sexual purposes. Sexual opportunism is sometimes also defined as the use of sexual favors for selfish purposes quite unrelated to the sexual activity, in which case taking a sexual opportunity is merely themeans to achieve a quite different purpose, for example, to advance one's career or obtain status or money.[18] This may be accepted or tolerated, or it may be criticized because the concerns of others are not adequately taken into consideration.
Purpose: the scope for opportunism depends very much on the nature and goals of the organization itself, and on the strength and integrity of its leadership. If for example, the organization sets itself the task to exploit risks and opportunities to advantage, then no matter what its size is, it tends to facilitate opportunist behavior. If, on the other hand, the aim of the organization is to carefully conserve a state of affairs or belief system, this is much less likely to attract opportunists.
^ E.g. As'ad AbuKhalil, "Yusuf Al-Qaradawi and Political Opportunism". Al Alakhbar English, 28 March 2012.[6] Archived 2014-02-09 at the Wayback Machine
Groups, gatherings, associations, or organizations that operate on the basis of voluntary or involuntary association, or in an atmosphere of mutual trust, may provide resources or contacts to their participants that are:
See Karl Marx, "The general law of accumulation", in: Capital Volume 1. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1976. Steven Mufson and Jia Lynn Yang, "Capital gains tax rates benefiting wealthy feed growing gap between rich and poor", in: Washington Post, 12 September 2011.
The sociology and psychology of human opportunism is related to the study of gambling behavior, and what kind of motivation and organizational culture is involved. Both the element of risk and opportunity play a role. To be opportunist in behavior, a person or group must:
In Latin, opportunus means opportune or favourable (opportunitas = opportunity); the word itself is a contraction of ob portus ("toward the harbour/entrance") or oppositum portus ("facing the harbour/entrance").
Norms and values: behavior that some organizations regard as "opportunist" may be perfectly acceptable in others, or tolerated as normal. Sometimes expectations of behavior are made explicit by the organization with the aid of formal rules communicated to members. Sometimes they are only implicit and informal - possibly because formal rules are not easy to formulate, or to enforce, or because it is assumed that members understand and share relevant norms and values.
^ Michael Ruse, The Oxford handbook of philosophy of biology. Oxford University Press, 2008, p. 199.
^ Reinhard Bachmann and Akbar Zaheer (eds.), Handbook of trust research. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, 2006, p. 201.
Taking a realistic or practical approach to a problem can involve "weak" forms of opportunism. For the sake of doing something that will work, or that successfully solves the problem, a previously agreed principle is knowingly compromised or disregarded - with the justification that alternative actions would, overall, have a worse effect.
Bartareau, T. (1996). "Foraging Behaviour of Trigona Carbonaria (Hymenoptera: Apidae) at Multiple-Choice Feeding Stations". Australian Journal of Zoology. 44 (2): 143. doi:10.1071/zo9960143.
^ Borzou Daragahi, "Libya: Back to the bad old ways". Financial times, February 16, 2012.
Opportunism is the practice of taking advantage of circumstances – with little regard for principles or with what the consequences are for others. Opportunist actions are expedient actions guided primarily by self-interested motives. The term can be applied to individual humans and living organisms, groups, organizations, styles, behaviors, and trends.
shirking, involving some kind of negligence, or failure to acquit oneself of duty (or a responsibility) previously agreed or implied (see also efficiency wages).
People can make the most gains at the least cost to themselves.
^ Salomone, A. William (October 1962). "The Risorgimento between Ideology and History: The Political Myth of rivoluzione mancata". The American Historical Review. 68 (1): 38–56. doi:10.2307/1847182. JSTOR 1847182.
Borzou Daragahi, "Libya: Back to the bad old ways". Financial times, February 16, 2012.
^ Williamson, Oliver E. (1995). "Hierarchies, Markets and Power in the Economy : An Economic Perspective". Industrial and Corporate Change. 4: 21–49. doi:10.1093/icc/4.1.21.
5Use of the term in specific areas											Toggle Use of the term in specific areas subsection																					5.1Professional																											5.2Intellectual																											5.3Sexual																											5.4Evolutionary																											5.5Biological																											5.6Political																											5.7Economic																											5.8Game theory																											5.9Social																											5.10Marxist theory																											5.11Legal																											5.12Spiritual
To the extent that the feelings, wishes, intentions, purposes, interests or norms of others are not adequately considered in the pursuit of sexual gratification, it then conflicts with some or other principle for appropriate behavior, and it may involve deceit or dishonesty (for example, the deliberate exploitation of sexual innocence). In that case, sexual opportunist is considered to lack sexual and/or personal integrity. In a clinical or scientific sense, sexual opportunism is often straightforwardly described as observable sexual promiscuity or the observable propensity to engage in casual sex,whatever the motive.[19]
^ Walker, Thomas; Turtle, Harry; Pukthuantthong, Kuntara; Thiengtham, Dolruedee (February 2015). "Legal opportunism, litigation risk, and IPO underpricing". Journal of Business Research. 68 (2): 326–340. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2014.06.025. S2CID 14929631. Retrieved May 6, 2022.
^ "The World That Never Was: A True Story of Schemers, Anarchists, and Secret Agents", p. 153,Alex Butterworth, Vintage, 2010, ISBN 9780099551928
Timmermans, Elisabeth; Van den Bulck, Jan (2018). "Casual Sexual Scripts on the Screen: A Quantitative Content Analysis". Archives of Sexual Behavior. 47 (5): 1481–1496. doi:10.1007/s10508-018-1147-1. ISSN 0004-0002. PMC 5954064. PMID 29589163.
In his book Self-policing in politics: the political economy of reputational controls on politicians (Princeton University Press, 2004, p.21).
See e.g. Heide Gerstenberger, Impersonal Power: History and theory of the bourgeois state. Haymarket Books, 2009.
In transaction cost economics, opportunism means self-interest seeking with guile, involving some kind of deliberate deceit and the absence of moral restraint. It could involve deliberately withholding or distorting important business information, shirking (doing less work than agreed), or failing to fulfill formal or informal promises and obligations. It occurs in trading activities especially where rules and sanctions are lacking, and where the opportunist actor has great power to influence an outcome by the attitude he assumes in practice. However, others[32] argue that this reflects a narrow view of economic opportunism, because there are many more ways that economic actors can take selfish advantage of other economic actors, even if they do not violate the law.[33] The critics of opportunism also note that opportunism is a hard to capture concept in empirical studies. Individuals are unlikely to answer truthfully questions about opportunism that makes an “unflattering behavioral assumption” (Williamson, 1995, p. 29) about how individuals behave when transacting.[34]
"The World That Never Was: A True Story of Schemers, Anarchists, and Secret Agents", p. 153,Alex Butterworth, Vintage, 2010, ISBN 9780099551928
^ Kurt Eggert, "Limiting abuse and opportunism by mortgage servicers". In: Housing Policy Debate (Fannie Mae Foundation), Vol. 15, Issue 3, 2004."Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-05-15. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ See e.g. Psychology of the Private Individual: Critique of Bourgeois Consciousness. Gegenstandpunkt, 2009 [13]
Chester Barnard has a chapter on the "theory of opportunism" in his classic work The Functions of the Executive (Harvard University Press, originally published in 1938).
Damian Saunders, "Mark Hurd and HP, economic opportunism and greed, one year on." Opinion, 30 January 2010.[8] Dan Ackman, "Kozlowski Speaks!". Forbes Magazine, 28 April 2005.[9] Ken Frost, "The Ongoing Trials of The Late Michael Jackson: Greed and Opportunism." 2 February 2005.[10]
Advantages: the prevalence of opportunist behavior is likely to be influenced by the perception that the pay-off or advantage of engaging in it, outweighs possible disadvantages or penalties. Opportunism is facilitated if the situation permits an actor to appropriate the gains or advantages to be had from activity to themselves while shifting the costs, blame and disadvantages to others. This may be regarded as unfair competition.
4Human behaviour											Toggle Human behaviour subsection																					4.1Eight main contexts																											4.2Five main organizational influences
^ See Karl Marx, Capital Volume 3. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1981.
Regulating all the conflicting interests and values, the capitalist state enforces the constraints of a legal system, but this legal system splits moral value and economic value into separate compartments, as well as splitting public and private spheres.[41] While it formally regards all citizens as equal and free, in reality people are very unequally positioned with respect to their social status, power, knowledge and wealth, and consequently also their freedoms. Information asymmetry is not simply a problem in trade, but occurs in every sphere of life, and thus some capitalize on the ignorance of others.[42]
Spiritual opportunism refers to the exploitation of spiritual ideas (or of the spirituality of others, or of spiritual authority): for personal gain, partisan interests or selfish motives. Usually the implication is that doing so is unprincipled in some way, although it may cause no harm and involve no abuse. In other words, religion becomes a means to achieve something that is alien to it, or things are projected into religion that do not belong there.
^ Nicolai J. Foss and Peter G. Klein, "Critiques of transaction cost economics: An overview". Organizations and markets, September 2009 [11]
^ See: Samuel Bowles, Richard Edwards and Frank Roosevelt, Understanding Capitalism: Competition, Command and Change. Oxford University Press, 3rd edition, 2005.
"The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule"
The practice of abandoning or compromising, in reality, some important political principles that were previously held, in the process of trying to increase one's political power and influence.
Typically, opportunist political behavior is criticized for being short-sighted or narrow-minded.[24] Most politicians are "opportunists" to some extent at least (they aim to use political opportunities creatively to their advantage, and have to try new initiatives), but the controversies surrounding the concept concern the exact relationship between "seizing a political opportunity" and the political principles being espoused. The term "political opportunism" is often used in a pejorative sense, mainly because it connotes the abandonment of principles or compromising political goals.[25] Political integrity typically demands an appropriate combination of principled positions and political flexibility that produces a morally consistent behavior in specific circumstances. There are four main sources of political opportunism: suicide (a specific political methodology that is applied to maintain or increase political influence), populism, risk management, and "means become ends".
Although people necessarily have to cooperate to survive, the way they go about this is highly contradictory, and involves "character masks", because there is also constant competition among individuals, businesses and social classes for money, power and prestige. They all have different interests, and are likely to take advantage of others, when they sense they can get away with it. This competition is rarely a level playing field.[39]
^ Ernest Mandel, "Marx, Engels en het probleem van de zogenaamde 'dubbele moraal'", in: Veelzijdig marxisme, acta van het colloqium “De actualiteit van Karl Marx” – in opdracht van het Instituut voor Marxistische Studies, 1983
E.g. As'ad AbuKhalil, "Yusuf Al-Qaradawi and Political Opportunism". Al Alakhbar English, 28 March 2012.[6] Archived 2014-02-09 at the Wayback Machine
Karl Marx provided no substantive theory of opportunism; insofar as he used the term, he meant a tactic of convenience or expediency used for self-serving motives, involving some or other kind of political, economic or intellectual trick.Nevertheless, some Marxists[who?] claim that Marx's theory of capitalism does imply a substantive theory of opportunism.[dubious– discuss] Its main claim is that opportunism is not simply an aberration or impediment to the efficient functioning of capitalism, but an integral and necessary characteristic of it; capitalist market activity promotes opportunist moves in all sorts of ways.Five kinds of factors are usually cited:
In game theory, opportunism concerns the contradictory relationships between altruistic and self-interested behaviour, where the different kinds of common and sectional interests existing in a situation are used mainly to make gains for oneself. If some actors in a game are placed at a disadvantage in some way, for any reason, it becomes an opportunity for other actors to capitalize on that fact, by using the disadvantage of others to improve their own position – under conditions where actors both compete and cooperate in different areas. Two classic cases discussed in game theory where opportunism is often involved are the free rider problem and the prisoner's dilemma.[35] In this game-theoretical sense, Paul Seabright defines opportunism as "the behaviour of those who seek to benefit from the efforts of others without contributing anything themselves."[36] Game theory can, for example, model the effects of information asymmetry, where people have unequal access to relevant information, so that those who "do know" can take advantage of those who "don't know".
^ See e.g. Heide Gerstenberger, Impersonal Power: History and theory of the bourgeois state. Haymarket Books, 2009.
Walker, Thomas; Turtle, Harry; Pukthuantthong, Kuntara; Thiengtham, Dolruedee (February 2015). "Legal opportunism, litigation risk, and IPO underpricing". Journal of Business Research. 68 (2): 326–340. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2014.06.025. S2CID 14929631. Retrieved May 6, 2022.
a trend of thought, or a political tendency, seeking to make political capital out of situations with the main aim being that of gaining more influence, prestige or support, instead of truly winning people over to a principled position or improving their political understanding.
Pierre Broué, The German revolution 1917-1923. Leiden: Brill, 2005, p. 55-56.
If a religious authority acquires influence over the "hearts and minds" of people who are believers in a religion, and therefore can "tap into" the most intimate and deepest-felt concerns of believers, it can also gain immense power from that. This power can be used in a self-interested manner, exploiting opportunities to benefit the position of the religious authority or its supporters in society. This could be considered as inconsistent with the real intentions of the religious belief, or it might show lack of respect for the spiritual autonomy of others. The "good faith" of people is then taken advantage of, in ways that involve some kind of deceit, or some dubious, selfish motive.
Success: opportunism often involves the presence of a very strong desire to be popular, to exercise influence or to succeed in making gains. That motivation can promote the urge to win something "by any means necessary", even if it means to "cut corners" and do things not consistent with relevant principles. If people are for some reason motivated "to do anything at all to achieve success", they are more likely to engage in opportunist behavior for that very reason.
The intellectual opportunist adapts his intellectual concerns, pursuits and utterances to "fit with the trend/fashion" or "fit the situation" or "with what sells" – with the (ulterior) motive of gaining personal popularity/support, protecting intellectual coherence, obtaining personal credit, acquiring privilege or status, persuading others, ingratiating himself, taking advantage or making money. Normally this assumes some degree of intellectual flexibility, agility or persuasiveness.
From a game-theoretical perspective, opportunism is objectively a "problem", if the pursuit of self-interest – in conflict with other interests at stake – has an undesirable or unwanted result for some actors or most of them. However, in principle examples could also be constructed where opportunist behaviour unintentionally serves other, broader interests (such as when, in their rush to take selfish advantage of a situation, the opportunist actors create more opportunities for other actors at the same time – the "bandwaggon" or "food chain" effect; see also Pareto optimality). In game theory, therefore, opportunism is not defined as being intrinsically and necessarily always a good thing or a bad thing; it could be either. Usually though, it is assumed, that the game theorist is able to "stand outside" the different interests being studied, to view the situation objectively – in a detached, uninvolved, impartial and unbiased way.
Capitalist society constantly reorganizes the structure of human cooperation, so that, more and more, people produce things they do not need themselves, or that are surplus to their own requirements, and can therefore be appropriated by others for personal gain. This causes alienation, and it creates a specific motivational structure. It promotes an inability to respond adequately to the needs of others except in the form of self-interested trade-offs.[38]
The quotation is attributed to Baldwin, according to a Penguin Dictionary of Quotations, but the exact source is unclear.
Salomone, A. William (October 1962). "The Risorgimento between Ideology and History: The Political Myth of rivoluzione mancata". The American Historical Review. 68 (1): 38–56. doi:10.2307/1847182. JSTOR 1847182.
Bogdan Mieczkowski, Dysfunctional Bureaucracy: A Comparative and Historical Perspective. Lanham,Maryland: University Press of America, 1991, p. 37.
Capitalist society is of itself aimless and amorphous with regard to the purposes of human life, lacking any shared, consensual ethic. Any candidate for such an ethic, such as a religion, is only as influential as the power that exists to assert it, but even so its norms are constantly contradicted in practice. Capitalism makes human development conditional on the unbridled pursuit of self-enrichment. This promotes personal qualities such as egoism and selfishness, where people try to "privatize the gains and socialize the losses."[43]
However, opportunism is sometimes also redefined by businessmen simply as "the theory of discovering and pursuing opportunities".[5] According to this redefinition, "opportunism" is a euphemism for "entrepreneurship".
Awareness: if people are for some or other reason deceiving themselves about the real consequences of their actions, they are more likely to initiate or condone opportunist behaviour; if they were more aware, that wouldn't happen to the same extent. Opportunism is facilitated if for any reason there is a low level of awareness that it is happening. Perceptions of the strengths and vulnerabilities of others and oneself may play an important role.
In professional ethics, the concept of opportunism plays a role in defining criteria for professional integrity.[17] In providing a service, a professional may have personal discretion (choice or leeway) about how to provide the service. Professionals may, to a great extent, make their own judgements, interpretations, and decisions about the exact approach to take—without an explicit rule that they must perform in a specific way. Such a situation can be exploited with opportunist motives that are contrary to the stated ethics of a profession. Consequently, it becomes necessary—for the sake of preserving professional integrity—to explicate "guiding norms" that define the boundaries of acceptable practice, or to divide up roles in such a way that different people in an organization can effectively check and control what their colleagues actually do ("to keep them honest").
^ See e.g. V.I. Lenin, "Opportunism, and the Collapse of the Second International", 1915. V.I Lenin
Controls: some organizations may have a code of behavior or set of rules that makes opportunist behavior difficult because organizational policy sets clear and immediate penalties for such behavior. Other organizations may be so loosely structured and so lacking in controls and sanctions regulating behaviour, that opportunism becomes almost unavoidable.
As a style of human behavior, opportunism has the connotation of a lack of integrity, or doing something that is out of character (inconsistent). The underlying thought is that the price of the unrestrained pursuit of selfishness is behavioral inconsistency. Thus, opportunism involves compromising some or other principles normally upheld. However, the boundary between "legitimate self-interest" and "undesirable (or anti-social) selfishness" can be difficult to define; the definition relies on perspective.[9]
Human opportunism should not be confused with "seeking opportunities", or "making use of opportunities when they arise". Opportunism refers to a specific way of responding to opportunities, which involves the element of self-interestedness and disregard for relevant (ethical) principles, or for intended or previously agreed goals, or for the shared concerns of a group.[4]
^ Chester Barnard has a chapter on the "theory of opportunism" in his classic work The Functions of the Executive (Harvard University Press, originally published in 1938).
Power: according to Lord Acton's famous dictum, "all power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely". If there are only weak sanctions against unprincipled behavior, this creates a setting where opportunist behavior can flourish, and if the positions of people are very unequal (in terms of power, wealth, status, knowledge or strength) the possibility exists that some will take advantage of the disadvantage of others.
"Government's sudden need to debate terror bill smacks of opportunism", The Globe and Mail, 22 April 2013.[3]
The fact that the self-interested action evokes this conflict, implies that the tendency to use opportunities to advantage is excessive or improper, the corollary being a deficiency of character or lack of propriety. Hence the term opportunism often has the pejorative connotation. Moralists may have a distaste for opportunism, insofar as opportunism implies the violation of a moral principle.
Information: opportunism is facilitated in the absence of relevant information, knowledge or awareness about the interests and values involved in a situation or activity, making it difficult to identify and judge all the consequences in pursuing an opportunity. This could be due to deliberate disinformation. Self-interest may be followed because it is unclear or undecided what other interests are at stake, or because a shared morality is lacking. If the situation is one where shared rules are lacking, where it is quite uncertain what the relevant rule to apply is, or where everything is very uncertain or chaotic, plenty of scopes exists for opportunist behavior.[14]
"In a rational type of analysis it will be said that it is profitable to be trustworthy. So I will be trustworthy because it is profitable to me. But you can't very easily establish trust on a basis like that. If your basis is rational decision and your underlying motive is self-interest, then you can betray your trust at any point when it is profitable and in your interest to do so. Therefore other people can't trust you. For there to be trust, there has to be a social structure which is based on motives different from immediate opportunism."[37]
Richard Swedberg, interview with Kenneth Arrow, in: Richard Swedberg, Economics and Sociology. Redefining their boundaries: conversations with economists and sociologists. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1990, p. 137.
Opportunist behavior is also strongly influenced by the organizational context in which it occurs.
In biology, an opportunist organism is generally defined as a species that can live and thrive in variable environmental conditions, and sustain itself from a number of different food sources, or can rapidly take advantage of favorable conditions when they arise, because the species is behaviorally sufficiently flexible. Such species can for example postpone reproduction, or stay dormant, until conditions make growth and reproduction possible. In the biological disciplines, opportunistic behavior is studied in fields such as evolutionary biology, ecology, epidemiology, and etiology, where moral or judgmental overtones do not apply (see also opportunistic pathogens, opportunistic predation, phoresis, and parasitism).
See further Kuntara Pukthuanthong and Harry J. Turtle, "Legal Opportunism, Litigation Risk, and IPO Underpricing", January 2009 "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-05-17. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link); Paul J. Zak (ed.), Moral markets: the critical role of values in the economy. Princeton University Press, 2008.
^ Shraga F. Biran, Opportunism: How to Change the World--One Idea at a Time. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2011.
Graham Scambler, "Sex Work Stigma: Opportunist Migrants in London".Sociology,vol. 41, no. 6, December 2007, pp. 1079-1096.
Criticism of opportunism usually refers to a situation where beliefs and principles are tested or challenged.
Social opportunism refers to the use of opportunities for social contact only for selfish purposes or motives. Because it is only selfish, the implication is usually that obligations to other participants in the given social setting are not (fully) met or honoured. The social opportunist participates in a group, cooperates with it or associates with it, not primarily because he wants to "contribute", give or share something to the group, or because he values being part of it as an intrinsic good, but only because he wants to get some advantage out of the participation for himself. Consequently, the participation by the opportunist is substantively only a "means" that serves some other, selfish purpose. This may be tolerated, to the extent that the selfish purpose of the opportunist is compatible with, or does not conflict with, the goals and intentions of the group. It may be regarded as undesirable and unwanted, or indeed a breach of trust or good faith, if that is not the case.
See e.g. V.I. Lenin, "Opportunism, and the Collapse of the Second International", 1915. V.I Lenin
^ Graham Scambler, "Sex Work Stigma: Opportunist Migrants in London".Sociology,vol. 41, no. 6, December 2007, pp. 1079-1096.
believing that there is much more at work behind the scenes for the combining of alliances, making of pacts and signing of agreements for a cause.
Opportunism or "opportunistic behaviour" is an important concept in such fields of study as biology, transaction cost economics, game theory, ethics, psychology, sociology and politics.
The term "opportunism" is often used in politics and political science, and by activists campaigning for a cause. The political philosophy of Niccolò Machiavelli as described in The Prince is often regarded as a classic manual of opportunist scheming.[22] Political opportunism is interpreted in different ways, but usually refers to one or more of the following:
Rationale: much depends on whether the organization really has a principled basis for its activities to start out with (a clearly defined, agreed understanding about the relationship between goals and the means to achieve them). Lacking such a principled foundation, the organization may find itself constantly trying to compensate for both opportunist errors and factional errors.
are not an organic, sincere or authentic expression of the real nature of the people who contrived them.
do not really express what people's lives are about, but are in some way an "artificial add-on".
Paul Seabright, The company of strangers: a natural history of economic life. Princeton University Press, 2004, p. 5.[12]
Opportunism is the conscious policy and practice of taking advantage of circumstances.[1]
^ Bogdan Mieczkowski, Dysfunctional Bureaucracy: A Comparative and Historical Perspective. Lanham,Maryland: University Press of America, 1991, p. 37.
^ Louise Lucas and Andrew Bounds, "Unilever's pension move prompts strike". Financial Times, December 9, 2011.
"I would rather be an opportunist and float than go to the bottom with my principles around my neck" – Stanley Baldwin[11]
Chao C. Chen, Mike W. Peng, Patrick A. Saporito, "Individualism, Collectivism, and Opportunism: A Cultural Perspective on Transaction Cost Economics". In: Journal of Management, Vol. 28 No. 4, 2002,pp. 567–583."Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-09-03. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ Pierre Broué, The German revolution 1917-1923. Leiden: Brill, 2005, p. 55-56.
An opportunist's motive always involves an element of selfishness.[12] Psychologically, it follows that opportunism always assumes a basic ability to make one's own choices, and decide to act in a way that serves one's own interest. In turn, that presupposes at least some basic self-motivation, inner direction, inventiveness, and behavioral freedom; subjectively, an opportunist must at least be able to recognize and respond to opportunities when they are there.
last-period exploitation, when it is known that competitors or stakeholders are not able to respond to a suitably timed selfish action.
Some animals also show this behavior for group-foraging. In other words, they try to optimize the feeding intake of their colony. The Australian stingless bee Tetragonula carbonaria, for instance, has several workers search for an area full of rich resources, and will then recruit heavily in this area until the resources are depleted."[21]
E.g. Donald L. Luskin, "Newt's Bain Opportunism Is Mitt's Opportunity". Wall Street Journal, 17 January 2012.[1]
^ Farah Stockman, "Opportunist of war". The Boston Globe, 13 december 2011.[4]
Thomas C. Leonard, "The price is wrong: causes and consequences of ethical restraint in trade." Journal des Economistes et des Etudes Humaines, Volume 14, numéro 4, Décembre 2004, pp 1-17.[7]
^ cited in Daniel Singer, Is Socialism Doomed? The Meaning of Mitterrand. Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 189. Perhaps the quote referred back to a line in John Milton's Paradise Lost according to which it is, "Better to reign in Hell than to serve in Heaven."The mind is its own place, and in it selfCan make a Heav'n of Hell, a Hell of Heav'n.What matter where, if I be still the same,And what I should be, all but less then heWhom Thunder hath made greater? Here at leastWe shall be free; th' Almighty hath not builtHere for his envy, will not drive us henceHere we may reign secure, and in my choiceTo reign is worth ambition though in HellBetter to reign in Hell, then serve in Heav'n. (Book 1)[2]
Opportunism is sometimes defined as the ability to capitalize on the mistakes of others: to exploit opportunities created by the errors, weaknesses or distractions of opponents to one's own advantage.[2]
refuse to take a risk that would reduce the influence, support, wealth or popularity, even although taking the risk is consistent with the principles the person or group uphold.
^ In his book Self-policing in politics: the political economy of reputational controls on politicians (Princeton University Press, 2004, p.21).
According to the Grand Larousse encyclopédique, opportunism was the name given to the cautious reformism and nationalism of French Republicans, who advocated moderate policies to consolidate the French Third Republic after the eviction of the monarchists. The French Opportunists did not call themselves by this name; rather, the term was used by French radicals to describe centrist and center-left politics in the country. Possibly, the term was originally popularized by Victor Henri Rochefort, Marquis de Rochefort-Luçay, who used it in his criticisms of Léon Gambetta.
^ See Karl Marx, "The general law of accumulation", in: Capital Volume 1. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1976. Steven Mufson and Jia Lynn Yang, "Capital gains tax rates benefiting wealthy feed growing gap between rich and poor", in: Washington Post, 12 September 2011.
are made to serve partisan interests, contrary to the real intention of the beliefs.
Williamson, Oliver E. (1995). "Hierarchies, Markets and Power in the Economy : An Economic Perspective". Industrial and Corporate Change. 4: 21–49. doi:10.1093/icc/4.1.21.
^ An example is Robert M. Price, Top Secret: The Truth Behind Today’s Pop Mysticisms. Prometheus Books, 2008
The term spiritual opportunism is also used in the sense of casting around for suitable spiritual beliefsborrowed and cobbled together in some way to justify, condemn or "make sense of" particular ways of behaving, usually with some partisan or ulterior motive. This may not be abusive, but it often gives rise to criticisms or accusations[49] that the given spiritual beliefs:
Thus, the opportunity exploited for selfish ends can itself exist either because an action is taken, or because of deliberate inaction (when action should really have been taken). The propensity to engage in such kinds of behaviours depends a great deal on the presence or absence of personal characteristics such as integrity, moral character, personal insight or self-awareness, personal flexibility and balance. It also depends on the ability to judge the consequences of different courses of action correctly. Strong emotions and desires may also play a role, and much may depend on how permissive a person, group or organization is (see permissive society). These factors influence the capacity to know "where to draw the line" appropriately, and regulate one's own behavior so that it remains consistent. Much also depends on the beliefs people happen to have about themselves and the world they live in, and on the morale of an organization.
Michael Ruse, The Oxford handbook of philosophy of biology. Oxford University Press, 2008, p. 199.
See e.g. Psychology of the Private Individual: Critique of Bourgeois Consciousness. Gegenstandpunkt, 2009 [13]
Size: in general, the larger an organization is in terms of members, the more scope its members have to engage in opportunist behavior, since the larger it is, the less individual members are practically able to check or control the behavior of many other members, and the more possibility there is that groups of members will develop self-serving interests that deviate from the stated goals of the organization.[16]
See: Samuel Bowles, Richard Edwards and Frank Roosevelt, Understanding Capitalism: Competition, Command and Change. Oxford University Press, 3rd edition, 2005.
In microbiology, opportunism refers to the ability of a normally non-pathogenic microorganism to act as a pathogen in certain circumstances.Opportunist micro-organisms (such as bacteria, viruses, fungi, and protozoa) are ones that, when they invade the host organism, can cause infection in the host organism, but cause real disease only if the natural defenses, resistance or immune system of the host organism are lowered (see opportunistic infection). In macrobiology, opportunist behaviour by an organism generally means that it is able to seize and use diverse opportunities in its environment to survive and grow. If one single opportunity or need occurs, the organism can "improvise" a response to it with whatever resources it has available, even if what it can do is not the best possible strategy.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Opportunism".
Louise Lucas and Andrew Bounds, "Unilever's pension move prompts strike". Financial Times, December 9, 2011.
An example is Robert M. Price, Top Secret: The Truth Behind Today’s Pop Mysticisms. Prometheus Books, 2008
take advantage of an opportunity to increase influence, support, wealth or popularity, although it is not consistent with the principles being upheld.
Market trade is compatible with a great variety of moral norms, religions, and political systems, and indeed supporters of the free market claim that this is exactly its advantage: people can choose their own values, buying and selling as they wish within a basic legal framework accepted by all.[27] People would not normally trade, if they did not expect to gain something by it; the fact that they do trade normally presupposes at least a respect for the basic rights of the party being traded with. Nevertheless, the gains or benefits of trading activity (and indeed the losses), although entirely legal, might be distributed very unequally or in ways not anticipated by previous understandings, and thus accusations of "economic opportunism" can arise nevertheless in many different settings.[28] If this is the case, relevant trading obligations (or civil obligations) are usually considered as not being (fully) met or honored, in the pursuit of economic self-interest. Greed is frequently mentioned as a primary motive for economic opportunism.[29]
cited in Daniel Singer, Is Socialism Doomed? The Meaning of Mitterrand. Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 189. Perhaps the quote referred back to a line in John Milton's Paradise Lost according to which it is, "Better to reign in Hell than to serve in Heaven."The mind is its own place, and in it selfCan make a Heav'n of Hell, a Hell of Heav'n.What matter where, if I be still the same,And what I should be, all but less then heWhom Thunder hath made greater? Here at leastWe shall be free; th' Almighty hath not builtHere for his envy, will not drive us henceHere we may reign secure, and in my choiceTo reign is worth ambition though in HellBetter to reign in Hell, then serve in Heav'n. (Book 1)[2]
^ "Government's sudden need to debate terror bill smacks of opportunism", The Globe and Mail, 22 April 2013.[3]
Supporters of traditional religions such as Christianity, Islam, Hinduism or Buddhism sometimes complain that people (such as New Age enthusiasts) seek out spiritual beliefs that serve only themselves, as a form of "spiritual opportunism". Such complaints are often highly controversial, because people are considered to have the right to their own spiritual beliefs (they may not have that right, to the extent that they are socially excluded unless they profess certain spiritual beliefs, but they may only subscribe "formally" or "outwardly" to them).
Farah Stockman, "Opportunist of war". The Boston Globe, 13 december 2011.[4]
^ See further Kuntara Pukthuanthong and Harry J. Turtle, "Legal Opportunism, Litigation Risk, and IPO Underpricing", January 2009 "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-05-17. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link); Paul J. Zak (ed.), Moral markets: the critical role of values in the economy. Princeton University Press, 2008.
Personalities and beliefs are shaped by the specific environment where they form. It is likely that the possibilities for opportunist behavior are promoted in contexts where there is not only an incentive to engage in them, but also where it is also extremely difficult for some reason to remain behaviourally consistent, or where ordinary constraints on behavior are lacking. In that case, opportunist behavior does not seem to have much adverse effect or consequence, at least in the short term, compared to the much greater benefits of engaging in it. Eight main contexts are referred to in the literature:
^ The quotation is attributed to Baldwin, according to a Penguin Dictionary of Quotations, but the exact source is unclear.
Ernest Mandel, "Marx, Engels en het probleem van de zogenaamde 'dubbele moraal'", in: Veelzijdig marxisme, acta van het colloqium “De actualiteit van Karl Marx” – in opdracht van het Instituut voor Marxistische Studies, 1983
The term intellectual opportunism—the pursuit of intellectual opportunities with a selfish, ulterior motive not consistent with relevant principles—refers to certain self-serving tendencies of the human intellect, often involving professional producers and disseminators of ideas, who work with idea-formation all the time. The phenomenon of intellectual opportunism is frequently associated by its critics with careerism. When human knowledge becomes a tradeable good in a market of ideas, all sorts of opportunities arise for huckstering, swindling, haggling and hustling with information in ways which are regarded as unprincipled, dubious or involve deceit of some sort.
^ E.g. Donald L. Luskin, "Newt's Bain Opportunism Is Mitt's Opportunity". Wall Street Journal, 17 January 2012.[1]
See e.g. G. Richard Shell, "Opportunism and trust in the Negotiation of Commercial Contracts: Toward a New Cause of Action." Vanderbilt Law Review, Vol. 44, March 1991, pp. 221-282.
This page was last edited on 15 March 2023, at 20:42 (UTC).
having experiencing suffering for a political cause, without real political positions and/or beliefs being revealed in the process, though with or without critique.[23]
There exists no agreed general, scientific definition or theory of economic opportunism; the literature usually considers only specific cases and contexts. Market trade supplies no universal morality of its own, except the law of contract and basic practical requirements to settle transactions, while at the same time legal rules, however precise in their formulation, cannot control every detail of transactions and the interpretation (or implications) thereof. Since economic opportunism must be assessed against some relevant norm or principle, controversy about what that norm or principle should be, makes a general definition difficult.[26]
In choosing or seizingopportunities, human opportunism is most likely to occur where:[3]
Spiritual opportunism sometimes refers also to the practice of proselytizing one's spiritual beliefs when any opportunity to do so arises, for the purpose of winning over, or persuading others, about the superiority of these beliefs. In this context, the spiritual opportunist may engage in various actions, themselves not directly related to the spiritual beliefs, with the specific aim of convincing others of the superiority of his own belief system – it may effectively amount to "buying their support".
Brunner, Othmar A (2019). ihuman. Writers Republic LLC. p. 380. ISBN 9781646200290.
Pierpont, Claudia Roth (8 September 2008). "The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule". www.newyorker.com. Retrieved 5 June 2019.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Opportunism".
Shraga F. Biran, Opportunism: How to Change the World--One Idea at a Time. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2011.
^ According to the Grand Larousse encyclopédique, opportunism was the name given to the cautious reformism and nationalism of French Republicans, who advocated moderate policies to consolidate the French Third Republic after the eviction of the monarchists. The French Opportunists did not call themselves by this name; rather, the term was used by French radicals to describe centrist and center-left politics in the country. Possibly, the term was originally popularized by Victor Henri Rochefort, Marquis de Rochefort-Luçay, who used it in his criticisms of Léon Gambetta.
^ Paul Seabright, The company of strangers: a natural history of economic life. Princeton University Press, 2004, p. 5.[12]
^ See e.g. G. Richard Shell, "Opportunism and trust in the Negotiation of Commercial Contracts: Toward a New Cause of Action." Vanderbilt Law Review, Vol. 44, March 1991, pp. 221-282.
^ Chao C. Chen, Mike W. Peng, Patrick A. Saporito, "Individualism, Collectivism, and Opportunism: A Cultural Perspective on Transaction Cost Economics". In: Journal of Management, Vol. 28 No. 4, 2002,pp. 567–583."Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-09-03. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
See Karl Marx, Capital Volume 3. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1981.
Resources: if a new bonanza (an abundantly available resource, or market) is discovered, accessible or opened up, people may try to "grab what they can" without regard to the consequences for others, perhaps with the thought that if they do not avail themselves of this opportunity, others will (and that if others do, it disadvantages them). Examples might be a gold rush and the tragedy of the commons. In this case, opportunist behavior may be facilitated, especially if precise rules for how a resource should be distributed are lacking, or if it is unclear who really owns it, or if proper use cannot be enforced.[13]
^ See e.g. Caroline B. Glick, "Column one: Israel's premier opportunist". In: Jerusalem Post, 22 July 2011.[5]
^ Pierpont, Claudia Roth (8 September 2008). "The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule". www.newyorker.com. Retrieved 5 June 2019.
Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style.
Competition: in a situation of intense conflict, competition or war,[15] it may be that people will do anything to survive, win, retain support, or defend themselves, never mind the principles, ideals or beliefs they had. Ordinary laws and "rules of the game" break down, creating new opportunities for those positioned to take advantage of them.
^ Bartareau, T. (1996). "Foraging Behaviour of Trigona Carbonaria (Hymenoptera: Apidae) at Multiple-Choice Feeding Stations". Australian Journal of Zoology. 44 (2): 143. doi:10.1071/zo9960143.
"The Risorgimento between Ideology and History: The Political Myth of rivoluzione mancata"
Thus, to use those resources or contacts for some selfish aim, paradoxically the social opportunist necessarily has to gain entry, join in and participate socially; there is no other way to gain access to or extract what he wants for himself.Some social groupings may welcome social opportunists, because they can serve a useful function, or can be persuaded (perhaps with group pressure) to change their ways through participation. Other social groupings may try to prevent social opportunism, by imposing strict preconditions of participation to ward off opportunists, or with the aid of rules prohibiting opportunist behaviour.
Relevant internal or external controls on their behavior are absent.
^ Damian Saunders, "Mark Hurd and HP, economic opportunism and greed, one year on." Opinion, 30 January 2010.[8] Dan Ackman, "Kozlowski Speaks!". Forbes Magazine, 28 April 2005.[9] Ken Frost, "The Ongoing Trials of The Late Michael Jackson: Greed and Opportunism." 2 February 2005.[10]
See e.g. Caroline B. Glick, "Column one: Israel's premier opportunist". In: Jerusalem Post, 22 July 2011.[5]
Legal opportunism is a term coined in a 2015 article in the Journal of Business Research to describe litigation following an IPO to recover potential losses after negative stock developments, regardless of the legal merits of the claim.[48]
Some people regard an opportunist stance positively as a legitimate choice. Thus, the British Conservative statesman Stanley Baldwin is supposed to have quipped:[10]
Glenn R. Parker[30] claims that the five most discussed examples of economic' opportunism are:
"Casual Sexual Scripts on the Screen: A Quantitative Content Analysis"
^ Thomas C. Leonard, "The price is wrong: causes and consequences of ethical restraint in trade." Journal des Economistes et des Etudes Humaines, Volume 14, numéro 4, Décembre 2004, pp 1-17.[7]
a political style of aiming to increase one's political influence at almost any price, or a political style that involves seizing every and any opportunity to extend political influence, whenever such opportunities arise.
In human behavior, opportunism concerns the relationship between people's actions, and their basic principles when faced with opportunities and challenges. The opportunist seeks to gain a personal advantage when an opportunity presents itself, putting self-interest ahead of some other interest, in a way contrary either to a previously established principle or another principle that ought to have higher priority. Hence opportunist behavior is usually regarded at least as questionable or dubious, and at most as unjustifiable or completely illegitimate. Opportunism is regarded as unhealthy, as a disorder or as a character deficiency, if selfishly pursuing an opportunity is blatantly anti-social (involves disregard for the needs, wishes and interests of others). However, behavior can also be regarded as "opportunist" by scholars without any particular moral evaluation being made or implied (simply as a type of self-interested behavior).
^ Czepiel J, Dróżdż M, Pituch H, Kuijper EJ, Perucki W, Mielimonka A,et al. (July 2019). "Clostridium difficile infection: review". European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases. 38 (7): 1211–1221. doi:10.1007/s10096-019-03539-6. PMC 6570665. PMID 30945014.
^ Mu A, Shein TT, Jayachandran P, Paul S (2017-09-14). "Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome in Patients with AIDS and Disseminated Coccidioidomycosis: A Case Series and Review of the Literature". Journal of the International Association of Providers of AIDS Care. 16 (6): 540–545. doi:10.1177/2325957417729751. PMID 28911256.
"Guidelines for the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in adults and adolescents with HIV: recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, and the HIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America" (PDF). 26 May 2020. Retrieved 28 November 2020.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a species of bacteria that causes tuberculosis, a respiratory infection.[11]
Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) is a group of two bacteria, M. avium and M. intracellulare, that typically co-infect, leading to a lung infection called mycobacterium avium-intracellulare infection.[9][10]
Cat feces (e.g. cat litter): source of Toxoplasma gondii, Bartonella spp.
Ledergerber B, Egger M, Erard V, Weber R, Hirschel B, Furrer H,et al. (December 1999). "AIDS-related opportunistic illnesses occurring after initiation of potent antiretroviral therapy: the Swiss HIV Cohort Study". JAMA. 282 (23): 2220–6. doi:10.1001/jama.282.23.2220. PMID 10605973.
Stentiford GD, Becnel JJ, Weiss LM, Keeling PJ, Didier ES, Bjornson S,et al. (April 2016). "Microsporidia - Emergent Pathogens in the Global Food Chain". Trends in Parasitology. 32 (4): 336–348. doi:10.1016/j.pt.2015.12.004. PMC 4818719. PMID 26796229.
^ Sokulska M, Kicia M, Wesołowska M, Hendrich AB (October 2015). "Pneumocystis jirovecii--from a commensal to pathogen: clinical and diagnostic review". Parasitology Research. 114 (10): 3577–85. doi:10.1007/s00436-015-4678-6. PMC 4562001. PMID 26281787.
Contact with farm animals, especially those with diarrhea: source of Toxoplasma gondii, Cryptosporidium parvum.
4Prevention											Toggle Prevention subsection																					4.1Restoration of immune system																											4.2Avoidance of infectious exposure																											4.3Prophylactic medications
"Antibiotic resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa: mechanisms and alternative therapeutic strategies"
"Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome in Patients with AIDS and Disseminated Coccidioidomycosis: A Case Series and Review of the Literature"
Jenul C, Horswill AR (April 2019). "Regulation of Staphylococcus aureus Virulence". Microbiology Spectrum. 7 (2). doi:10.1128/microbiolspec.GPP3-0031-2018. PMC 6452892. PMID 30953424.
Cesarman E, Damania B, Krown SE, Martin J, Bower M, Whitby D (January 2019). "Kaposi sarcoma". Nature Reviews. Disease Primers. 5 (1): 9. doi:10.1038/s41572-019-0060-9. PMC 6685213. PMID 30705286.
Kong C, Neoh HM, Nathan S (March 2016). "Targeting Staphylococcus aureus Toxins: A Potential form of Anti-Virulence Therapy". Toxins. 8 (3): 72. doi:10.3390/toxins8030072. PMC 4810217. PMID 26999200.
^ Smith TJ, Khatcheressian J, Lyman GH, Ozer H, Armitage JO, Balducci L,et al. (July 2006). "2006 update of recommendations for the use of white blood cell growth factors: an evidence-based clinical practice guideline". Journal of Clinical Oncology. 24 (19): 3187–205. doi:10.1200/JCO.2006.06.4451. PMID 16682719.
^ Chahin A, Opal SM (March 2017). "Severe Pneumonia Caused by Legionella pneumophila: Differential Diagnosis and Therapeutic Considerations". Infectious Disease Clinics of North America. 31 (1): 111–121. doi:10.1016/j.idc.2016.10.009. PMC 7135102. PMID 28159171.
^ Falkinham JO (2018). "Mycobacterium avium complex: Adherence as a way of life". AIMS Microbiology. 4 (3): 428–438. doi:10.3934/microbiol.2018.3.428. PMC 6604937. PMID 31294225.
Freifeld AG, Bow EJ, Sepkowitz KA, Boeckh MJ, Ito JI, Mullen CA,et al. (February 2011). "Clinical practice guideline for the use of antimicrobial agents in neutropenic patients with cancer: 2010 update by the infectious diseases society of america". Clinical Infectious Diseases. 52 (4): e56-93. doi:10.1093/cid/cir073. PMID 21258094.
José RJ, Periselneris JN, Brown JS (June 2020). "Opportunistic bacterial, viral and fungal infections of the lung". Medicine. 48 (6): 366–372. doi:10.1016/j.mpmed.2020.03.006. PMC 7206443. PMID 32390758.
Falkinham JO (2018). "Mycobacterium avium complex: Adherence as a way of life". AIMS Microbiology. 4 (3): 428–438. doi:10.3934/microbiol.2018.3.428. PMC 6604937. PMID 31294225.
Tenforde MW, Shapiro AE, Rouse B, Jarvis JN, Li T, Eshun-Wilson I, Ford N,et al. (Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group) (July 2018). "Treatment for HIV-associated cryptococcal meningitis". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2018 (7): CD005647. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD005647.pub3. PMC 6513250. PMID 30045416.
^ Doitsh G, Greene WC (March 2016). "Dissecting How CD4 T Cells Are Lost During HIV Infection". Cell Host & Microbe. 19 (3): 280–91. doi:10.1016/j.chom.2016.02.012. PMC 4835240. PMID 26962940.
Fenwick C, Joo V, Jacquier P, Noto A, Banga R, Perreau M, Pantaleo G (November 2019). "T-cell exhaustion in HIV infection". Immunological Reviews. 292 (1): 149–163. doi:10.1111/imr.12823. PMC 7003858. PMID 31883174.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a bacterium that can cause respiratory infections. It is frequently associated with cystic fibrosis and hospital-acquired infections.[12]
^ Erdogan A, Rao SS (April 2015). "Small intestinal fungal overgrowth". Current Gastroenterology Reports. 17 (4): 16. doi:10.1007/s11894-015-0436-2. PMID 25786900. S2CID 3098136.
^ Horwath MC, Fecher RA, Deepe GS (2015-06-10). "Histoplasma capsulatum, lung infection and immunity". Future Microbiology. 10 (6): 967–75. doi:10.2217/fmb.15.25. PMC 4478585. PMID 26059620.
Treatment depends on the type of opportunistic infection, but usually involves different antibiotics.[citation needed]
Achermann Y, Goldstein EJ, Coenye T, Shirtliff ME (July 2014). "Propionibacterium acnes: from commensal to opportunistic biofilm-associated implant pathogen". Clinical Microbiology Reviews. 27 (3): 419–40. doi:10.1128/CMR.00092-13. PMC 4135900. PMID 24982315.
^ Mittal J, Ponce MG, Gendlina I, Nosanchuk JD (2018).Rodrigues ML (ed.). "Histoplasma Capsulatum: Mechanisms for Pathogenesis". Current Topics in Microbiology and Immunology. Cham: Springer International Publishing. 422: 157–191. doi:10.1007/82_2018_114. ISBN 978-3-030-30236-8. PMC 7212190. PMID 30043340.
"Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii, the etiologic agents of cryptococcosis"
Reptiles, chicks, and ducklings that are a common source of Salmonella.
This page was last edited on 24 February 2023, at 02:40 (UTC).
^ Brouwer S, Barnett TC, Rivera-Hernandez T, Rohde M, Walker MJ (November 2016). "Streptococcus pyogenes adhesion and colonization". FEBS Letters. 590 (21): 3739–3757. doi:10.1002/1873-3468.12254. hdl:10033/619157. PMID 27312939. S2CID 205213711.
"Targeting Staphylococcus aureus Toxins: A Potential form of Anti-Virulence Therapy"
Doitsh G, Greene WC (March 2016). "Dissecting How CD4 T Cells Are Lost During HIV Infection". Cell Host & Microbe. 19 (3): 280–91. doi:10.1016/j.chom.2016.02.012. PMC 4835240. PMID 26962940.
^ Kwon-Chung KJ, Fraser JA, Doering TL, Wang Z, Janbon G, Idnurm A, Bahn YS (July 2014). "Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii, the etiologic agents of cryptococcosis". Cold Spring Harbor Perspectives in Medicine. 4 (7): a019760. doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a019760. PMC 4066639. PMID 24985132.
"First report of Atopobium vaginae bacteremia with fetal loss after chorionic villus sampling"
In patients with HIV, starting antiretroviral therapy is especially important for restoration of the immune system and reducing the incidence rate of opportunistic infections[49][50]
Czepiel J, Dróżdż M, Pituch H, Kuijper EJ, Perucki W, Mielimonka A,et al. (July 2019). "Clostridium difficile infection: review". European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases. 38 (7): 1211–1221. doi:10.1007/s10096-019-03539-6. PMC 6570665. PMID 30945014.
"Dissecting How CD4 T Cells Are Lost During HIV Infection"
"Toxoplasma gondii: Entry, association, and physiological influence on the central nervous system"
^ Seyedmousavi S, Bosco SM, de Hoog S, Ebel F, Elad D, Gomes RR,et al. (April 2018). "Fungal infections in animals: a patchwork of different situations". Medical Mycology. 56 (suppl_1): 165–187. doi:10.1093/mmy/myx104. PMC 6251577. PMID 29538732.
Coccidioides immitis is a fungus known for causing coccidioidomycosis, more commonly known as Valley Fever.[22]
Alternative agents can be used instead of the preferred agents. These alternative agents may be used due to allergies, availability, or clinical presentation. The alternative agents are listed in the table below.[54][55][56]
Radu O, Pantanowitz L (February 2013). "Kaposi sarcoma". Archives of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine. 137 (2): 289–94. doi:10.5858/arpa.2012-0101-RS. PMID 23368874.
Pregnancy Further information: Susceptibility and severity of infections in pregnancy
Mittal J, Ponce MG, Gendlina I, Nosanchuk JD (2018).Rodrigues ML (ed.). "Histoplasma Capsulatum: Mechanisms for Pathogenesis". Current Topics in Microbiology and Immunology. Cham: Springer International Publishing. 422: 157–191. doi:10.1007/82_2018_114. ISBN 978-3-030-30236-8. PMC 7212190. PMID 30043340.
HIV is a virus that targets T cells of the immune system and, as a result, HIV infection can lead to progressively worsening immunodeficiency, a condition ideal for the development of opportunistic infection.[42][43] Because of this, respiratory and central nervous system opportunistic infections, including tuberculosis and meningitis, respectively, are associated with later-stage HIV infection, as are numerous other infectious pathologies.[44][45] Kaposi’s sarcoma, a virally-associated cancer, has higher incidence rates in HIV-positive patients than in the general population.[46] As immune function declines and HIV-infection progresses to AIDS, individuals are at an increased risk of opportunistic infections that their immune systems are no longer capable of responding properly to. Because of this, opportunistic infections are a leading cause of HIV/AIDS-related deaths.[47]
Streptococcus pyogenes (also known as group A Streptococcus) is a bacterium that can cause a variety of pathologies, including impetigo and strep throat, as well as other, more serious, illnesses.[16][17]
"HIV-associated opportunistic infections--going, going, but not gone: the continued need for prevention and treatment guidelines"
Gerace E, Lo Presti VD, Biondo C (December 2019). "Cryptosporidium Infection: Epidemiology, Pathogenesis, and Differential Diagnosis". European Journal of Microbiology & Immunology. 9 (4): 119–123. doi:10.1556/1886.2019.00019. PMC 6945992. PMID 31934363.
^ Bohra C, Sokol L, Dalia S (2017-11-01). "Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy and Monoclonal Antibodies: A Review". Cancer Control. 24 (4): 1073274817729901. doi:10.1177/1073274817729901. PMC 5937251. PMID 28975841.
^ Guh AY, Kutty PK (October 2018). "Clostridioides difficile Infection". Annals of Internal Medicine. 169 (7): ITC49–ITC64. doi:10.7326/AITC201810020. PMC 6524133. PMID 30285209.
Horwath MC, Fecher RA, Deepe GS (2015-06-10). "Histoplasma capsulatum, lung infection and immunity". Future Microbiology. 10 (6): 967–75. doi:10.2217/fmb.15.25. PMC 4478585. PMID 26059620.
^ Brooks JT, Kaplan JE, Holmes KK, Benson C, Pau A, Masur H (March 2009). "HIV-associated opportunistic infections--going, going, but not gone: the continued need for prevention and treatment guidelines". Clinical Infectious Diseases. 48 (5): 609–11. doi:10.1086/596756. PMID 19191648.
^ Stentiford GD, Becnel JJ, Weiss LM, Keeling PJ, Didier ES, Bjornson S,et al. (April 2016). "Microsporidia - Emergent Pathogens in the Global Food Chain". Trends in Parasitology. 32 (4): 336–348. doi:10.1016/j.pt.2015.12.004. PMC 4818719. PMID 26796229.
^ Gerace E, Lo Presti VD, Biondo C (December 2019). "Cryptosporidium Infection: Epidemiology, Pathogenesis, and Differential Diagnosis". European Journal of Microbiology & Immunology. 9 (4): 119–123. doi:10.1556/1886.2019.00019. PMC 6945992. PMID 31934363.
^ Pan SW, Shu CC, Feng JY, Su WJ (June 2020). "Treatment for Mycobacterium avium complex lung disease". Journal of the Formosan Medical Association = Taiwan Yi Zhi. 119 Suppl 1: S67–S75. doi:10.1016/j.jfma.2020.05.006. PMID 32446754.
^ Rees CA, Keating EM, Lukolyo H, Danysh HE, Scheurer ME, Mehta PS,et al. (August 2016). "Mapping the Epidemiology of Kaposi Sarcoma and Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Among Children in Sub-Saharan Africa: A Review". Pediatric Blood & Cancer. 63 (8): 1325–31. doi:10.1002/pbc.26021. PMC 7340190. PMID 27082516.
"Guidelines for the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in adults and adolescents with HIV: recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, and the HIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America"
Antibiotic treatment leading to disruption of the physiological microbiome, thus allowing some microorganisms to outcompete others and become pathogenic (e.g. disruption of intestinal microbiota may lead to Clostridium difficile infection)
Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly known as Pneumocystis carinii) is a fungus that causes pneumocystis pneumonia, a respiratory infection.[29]
"Severe Pneumonia Caused by Legionella pneumophila: Differential Diagnosis and Therapeutic Considerations"
^ Radu O, Pantanowitz L (February 2013). "Kaposi sarcoma". Archives of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine. 137 (2): 289–94. doi:10.5858/arpa.2012-0101-RS. PMID 23368874.
^ Pang Z, Raudonis R, Glick BR, Lin TJ, Cheng Z (January–February 2019). "Antibiotic resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa: mechanisms and alternative therapeutic strategies". Biotechnology Advances. 37 (1): 177–192. doi:10.1016/j.biotechadv.2018.11.013. PMID 30500353.
Mastromarino P, Vitali B, Mosca L (July 2013). "Bacterial vaginosis: a review on clinical trials with probiotics" (PDF). The New Microbiologica. 36 (3): 229–38. PMID 23912864.
^ Bruchfeld J, Correia-Neves M, Källenius G (February 2015). "Tuberculosis and HIV Coinfection". Cold Spring Harbor Perspectives in Medicine. 5 (7): a017871. doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a017871. PMC 4484961. PMID 25722472.
"Anaerobes and bacterial vaginosis in pregnancy: virulence factors contributing to vaginal colonisation"
^ Knoester M, Lashley LE, Wessels E, Oepkes D, Kuijper EJ (April 2011). "First report of Atopobium vaginae bacteremia with fetal loss after chorionic villus sampling". Journal of Clinical Microbiology. 49 (4): 1684–6. doi:10.1128/JCM.01655-10. PMC 3122803. PMID 21289141.
^ Sadiq U, Shrestha U, Guzman M (2021). "Prevention Of Opportunistic Infections In HIV". StatPearls. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing. PMID 30020717. Retrieved 2021-03-09.
Berjeaud JM, Chevalier S, Schlusselhuber M, Portier E, Loiseau C, Aucher W,et al. (2016-04-08). "Legionella pneumophila: The Paradox of a Highly Sensitive Opportunistic Waterborne Pathogen Able to Persist in the Environment". Frontiers in Microbiology. 7: 486. doi:10.3389/fmicb.2016.00486. PMC 4824771. PMID 27092135.
Chahin A, Opal SM (March 2017). "Severe Pneumonia Caused by Legionella pneumophila: Differential Diagnosis and Therapeutic Considerations". Infectious Disease Clinics of North America. 31 (1): 111–121. doi:10.1016/j.idc.2016.10.009. PMC 7135102. PMID 28159171.
Akpan A, Morgan R (August 2002). "Oral candidiasis". Postgraduate Medical Journal. 78 (922): 455–9. doi:10.1136/pmj.78.922.455. PMC 1742467. PMID 12185216.
Human polyomavirus 2 (also known as JC virus) is known to cause progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML).[34][35]
Opportunistic infections caused by feline leukemia virus and feline immunodeficiency virus retroviral infections can be treated with lymphocyte T-cell immunomodulator.
Africa CW, Nel J, Stemmet M (July 2014). "Anaerobes and bacterial vaginosis in pregnancy: virulence factors contributing to vaginal colonisation". International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health. 11 (7): 6979–7000. doi:10.3390/ijerph110706979. PMC 4113856. PMID 25014248.
^ Lamas A, Miranda JM, Regal P, Vázquez B, Franco CM, Cepeda A (January 2018). "A comprehensive review of non-enterica subspecies of Salmonella enterica". Microbiological Research. 206: 60–73. doi:10.1016/j.micres.2017.09.010. PMID 29146261.
Maziarz EK, Perfect JR (March 2016). "Cryptococcosis". Infectious Disease Clinics of North America. 30 (1): 179–206. doi:10.1016/j.idc.2015.10.006. PMC 5808417. PMID 26897067.
Human herpesvirus 8 (also known as Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus) is a virus associated with Kaposi sarcoma, a type of cancer.[36][37]
Rees CA, Keating EM, Lukolyo H, Danysh HE, Scheurer ME, Mehta PS,et al. (August 2016). "Mapping the Epidemiology of Kaposi Sarcoma and Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Among Children in Sub-Saharan Africa: A Review". Pediatric Blood & Cancer. 63 (8): 1325–31. doi:10.1002/pbc.26021. PMC 7340190. PMID 27082516.
Sadiq U, Shrestha U, Guzman M (2021). "Prevention Of Opportunistic Infections In HIV". StatPearls. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing. PMID 30020717. Retrieved 2021-03-09.
^ Jenul C, Horswill AR (April 2019). "Regulation of Staphylococcus aureus Virulence". Microbiology Spectrum. 7 (2). doi:10.1128/microbiolspec.GPP3-0031-2018. PMC 6452892. PMID 30953424.
Mendez OA, Koshy AA (July 2017).Gubbels MJ (ed.). "Toxoplasma gondii: Entry, association, and physiological influence on the central nervous system". PLOS Pathogens. 13 (7): e1006351. doi:10.1371/journal.ppat.1006351. PMC 5519211. PMID 28727854.
^ Schlossberg D (2015-04-23). Clinical Infectious Disease. Cambridge University Press. pp. 688–. ISBN 978-1-107-03891-2.
"Clinical practice guideline for the use of antimicrobial agents in neutropenic patients with cancer: 2010 update by the infectious diseases society of america"
Pseudogymnoascus destructans (formerly known as Geomyces destructans) is a fungus that causes white-nose syndrome in bats.[27]
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Justiz Vaillant AA, Qurie A (2021). "Immunodeficiency". StatPearls. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing. PMID 29763203. Retrieved 2021-03-09.
Staphylococcus aureus is a bacterium known to cause skin infections and sepsis, among other pathologies. Notably, S. aureus has evolved several drug-resistant strains, including MRSA.[14][15]
^ a b Dyer, Mary; Kerr, Christine; McGowan, Joseph P.; Fine, Steven M.; Merrick, Samuel T.; Stevens, Lyn C.; Hoffmann, Christopher J.; Gonzalez, Charles J. (2021). Comprehensive Primary Care for Adults With HIV. New York State Department of Health AIDS Institute Clinical Guidelines. Baltimore (MD): Johns Hopkins University. PMID 33625815.
Sokulska M, Kicia M, Wesołowska M, Hendrich AB (October 2015). "Pneumocystis jirovecii--from a commensal to pathogen: clinical and diagnostic review". Parasitology Research. 114 (10): 3577–85. doi:10.1007/s00436-015-4678-6. PMC 4562001. PMID 26281787.
^ Akpan A, Morgan R (August 2002). "Oral candidiasis". Postgraduate Medical Journal. 78 (922): 455–9. doi:10.1136/pmj.78.922.455. PMC 1742467. PMID 12185216.
^ Tenforde MW, Shapiro AE, Rouse B, Jarvis JN, Li T, Eshun-Wilson I, Ford N,et al. (Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group) (July 2018). "Treatment for HIV-associated cryptococcal meningitis". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2018 (7): CD005647. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD005647.pub3. PMC 6513250. PMID 30045416.
^ Maziarz EK, Perfect JR (March 2016). "Cryptococcosis". Infectious Disease Clinics of North America. 30 (1): 179–206. doi:10.1016/j.idc.2015.10.006. PMC 5808417. PMID 26897067.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Justiz Vaillant AA, Qurie A (2021). "Immunodeficiency". StatPearls. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing. PMID 29763203. Retrieved 2021-03-09.
Knoester M, Lashley LE, Wessels E, Oepkes D, Kuijper EJ (April 2011). "First report of Atopobium vaginae bacteremia with fetal loss after chorionic villus sampling". Journal of Clinical Microbiology. 49 (4): 1684–6. doi:10.1128/JCM.01655-10. PMC 3122803. PMID 21289141.
^ Hunter CA, Sibley LD (November 2012). "Modulation of innate immunity by Toxoplasma gondii virulence effectors". Nature Reviews. Microbiology. 10 (11): 766–78. doi:10.1038/nrmicro2858. PMC 3689224. PMID 23070557.
Latgé JP, Chamilos G (December 2019). "Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillosis in 2019". Clinical Microbiology Reviews. 33 (1): e00140–18, /cmr/33/1/CMR.00140–18.atom. doi:10.1128/CMR.00140-18. PMC 6860006. PMID 31722890.
^ Jespersen MG, Lacey JA, Tong SY, Davies MR (December 2020). "Global genomic epidemiology of Streptococcus pyogenes". Infection, Genetics and Evolution. 86: 104609. doi:10.1016/j.meegid.2020.104609. PMID 33147506.
Jespersen MG, Lacey JA, Tong SY, Davies MR (December 2020). "Global genomic epidemiology of Streptococcus pyogenes". Infection, Genetics and Evolution. 86: 104609. doi:10.1016/j.meegid.2020.104609. PMID 33147506.
^ Mendez OA, Koshy AA (July 2017).Gubbels MJ (ed.). "Toxoplasma gondii: Entry, association, and physiological influence on the central nervous system". PLOS Pathogens. 13 (7): e1006351. doi:10.1371/journal.ppat.1006351. PMC 5519211. PMID 28727854.
"Table 2. Treatment of HIV-Associated Opportunistic Infections (Includes Recommendations for Acute Treatment and Secondary Prophylaxis/Chronic Suppressive/Maintenance Therapy) | NIH"
^ Freifeld AG, Bow EJ, Sepkowitz KA, Boeckh MJ, Ito JI, Mullen CA,et al. (February 2011). "Clinical practice guideline for the use of antimicrobial agents in neutropenic patients with cancer: 2010 update by the infectious diseases society of america". Clinical Infectious Diseases. 52 (4): e56-93. doi:10.1093/cid/cir073. PMID 21258094.
Brooks JT, Kaplan JE, Holmes KK, Benson C, Pau A, Masur H (March 2009). "HIV-associated opportunistic infections--going, going, but not gone: the continued need for prevention and treatment guidelines". Clinical Infectious Diseases. 48 (5): 609–11. doi:10.1086/596756. PMID 19191648.
Schroeder MR, Stephens DS (2016-09-21). "Macrolide Resistance in Streptococcus pneumoniae". Frontiers in Cellular and Infection Microbiology. 6: 98. doi:10.3389/fcimb.2016.00098. PMC 5030221. PMID 27709102.
"Legionella pneumophila: The Paradox of a Highly Sensitive Opportunistic Waterborne Pathogen Able to Persist in the Environment"
Unprotected sexual intercourse with individuals with known sexually transmitted infections.
^ Kartau M, Sipilä JO, Auvinen E, Palomäki M, Verkkoniemi-Ahola A (2019-12-02). "Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy: Current Insights". Degenerative Neurological and Neuromuscular Disease. 9: 109–121. doi:10.2147/DNND.S203405. PMC 6896915. PMID 31819703.
^ Africa CW, Nel J, Stemmet M (July 2014). "Anaerobes and bacterial vaginosis in pregnancy: virulence factors contributing to vaginal colonisation". International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health. 11 (7): 6979–7000. doi:10.3390/ijerph110706979. PMC 4113856. PMID 25014248.
Cytomegalovirus is a family of opportunistic viruses, most frequently associated with respiratory infection.[19][33]
"Table 2. Treatment of HIV-Associated Opportunistic Infections (Includes Recommendations for Acute Treatment and Secondary Prophylaxis/Chronic Suppressive/Maintenance Therapy) | NIH". clinicalinfo.hiv.gov. Retrieved 2023-02-20.
Kwon-Chung KJ, Fraser JA, Doering TL, Wang Z, Janbon G, Idnurm A, Bahn YS (July 2014). "Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii, the etiologic agents of cryptococcosis". Cold Spring Harbor Perspectives in Medicine. 4 (7): a019760. doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a019760. PMC 4066639. PMID 24985132.
Bohra C, Sokol L, Dalia S (2017-11-01). "Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy and Monoclonal Antibodies: A Review". Cancer Control. 24 (4): 1073274817729901. doi:10.1177/1073274817729901. PMC 5937251. PMID 28975841.
Hunter CA, Sibley LD (November 2012). "Modulation of innate immunity by Toxoplasma gondii virulence effectors". Nature Reviews. Microbiology. 10 (11): 766–78. doi:10.1038/nrmicro2858. PMC 3689224. PMID 23070557.
Immunodeficiency or immunosuppression are characterized by the absence of or disruption in components of the immune system, leading to lower-than-normal levels of immune function and immunity against pathogens.[1] They can be caused by a variety of factors, including:
Pang Z, Raudonis R, Glick BR, Lin TJ, Cheng Z (January–February 2019). "Antibiotic resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa: mechanisms and alternative therapeutic strategies". Biotechnology Advances. 37 (1): 177–192. doi:10.1016/j.biotechadv.2018.11.013. PMID 30500353.
Lamas A, Miranda JM, Regal P, Vázquez B, Franco CM, Cepeda A (January 2018). "A comprehensive review of non-enterica subspecies of Salmonella enterica". Microbiological Research. 206: 60–73. doi:10.1016/j.micres.2017.09.010. PMID 29146261.
Smith TJ, Khatcheressian J, Lyman GH, Ozer H, Armitage JO, Balducci L,et al. (July 2006). "2006 update of recommendations for the use of white blood cell growth factors: an evidence-based clinical practice guideline". Journal of Clinical Oncology. 24 (19): 3187–205. doi:10.1200/JCO.2006.06.4451. PMID 16682719.
Dyer, Mary; Kerr, Christine; McGowan, Joseph P.; Fine, Steven M.; Merrick, Samuel T.; Stevens, Lyn C.; Hoffmann, Christopher J.; Gonzalez, Charles J. (2021). Comprehensive Primary Care for Adults With HIV. New York State Department of Health AIDS Institute Clinical Guidelines. Baltimore (MD): Johns Hopkins University. PMID 33625815.
Potential sources of tuberculosis (high risk healthcare facilities, regions with high rates of tuberculosis, patients with known tuberculosis).
The lack of or the disruption of normal vaginal microbiota allows the proliferation of opportunistic microorganisms and will cause the opportunistic infection bacterial vaginosis.[38][39][40][41]
^ Fonseca Brito L, Brune W, Stahl FR (August 2019). "Cytomegalovirus (CMV) Pneumonitis: Cell Tropism, Inflammation, and Immunity". International Journal of Molecular Sciences. 20 (16): 3865. doi:10.3390/ijms20163865. PMC 6719013. PMID 31398860.
^ Berjeaud JM, Chevalier S, Schlusselhuber M, Portier E, Loiseau C, Aucher W,et al. (2016-04-08). "Legionella pneumophila: The Paradox of a Highly Sensitive Opportunistic Waterborne Pathogen Able to Persist in the Environment". Frontiers in Microbiology. 7: 486. doi:10.3389/fmicb.2016.00486. PMC 4824771. PMID 27092135.
Cryptococcus neoformans is a fungus that causes cryptococcosis, which can lead to pulmonary infection as well as nervous system infections, like meningitis.[23][24]
"Pneumocystis jirovecii--from a commensal to pathogen: clinical and diagnostic review"
Seyedmousavi S, Bosco SM, de Hoog S, Ebel F, Elad D, Gomes RR,et al. (April 2018). "Fungal infections in animals: a patchwork of different situations". Medical Mycology. 56 (suppl_1): 165–187. doi:10.1093/mmy/myx104. PMC 6251577. PMID 29538732.
^ Fenwick C, Joo V, Jacquier P, Noto A, Banga R, Perreau M, Pantaleo G (November 2019). "T-cell exhaustion in HIV infection". Immunological Reviews. 292 (1): 149–163. doi:10.1111/imr.12823. PMC 7003858. PMID 31883174.
^ Mastromarino P, Vitali B, Mosca L (July 2013). "Bacterial vaginosis: a review on clinical trials with probiotics" (PDF). The New Microbiologica. 36 (3): 229–38. PMID 23912864.
Microsporidia is a group of fungi that infect species across the animal kingdom, one species of which can cause microsporidiosis in immunocompromised human hosts.[28]
A wide variety of pathogens are involved in opportunistic infection and can cause a similarly wide range in pathologies. A partial list of opportunistic pathogens and their associated presentations includes:
^ a b Schroeder MR, Stephens DS (2016-09-21). "Macrolide Resistance in Streptococcus pneumoniae". Frontiers in Cellular and Infection Microbiology. 6: 98. doi:10.3389/fcimb.2016.00098. PMC 5030221. PMID 27709102.
Brouwer S, Barnett TC, Rivera-Hernandez T, Rohde M, Walker MJ (November 2016). "Streptococcus pyogenes adhesion and colonization". FEBS Letters. 590 (21): 3739–3757. doi:10.1002/1873-3468.12254. hdl:10033/619157. PMID 27312939. S2CID 205213711.
Kartau M, Sipilä JO, Auvinen E, Palomäki M, Verkkoniemi-Ahola A (2019-12-02). "Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy: Current Insights". Degenerative Neurological and Neuromuscular Disease. 9: 109–121. doi:10.2147/DNND.S203405. PMC 6896915. PMID 31819703.
Mu A, Shein TT, Jayachandran P, Paul S (2017-09-14). "Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome in Patients with AIDS and Disseminated Coccidioidomycosis: A Case Series and Review of the Literature". Journal of the International Association of Providers of AIDS Care. 16 (6): 540–545. doi:10.1177/2325957417729751. PMID 28911256.
^ Cesarman E, Damania B, Krown SE, Martin J, Bower M, Whitby D (January 2019). "Kaposi sarcoma". Nature Reviews. Disease Primers. 5 (1): 9. doi:10.1038/s41572-019-0060-9. PMC 6685213. PMID 30705286.
^ a b José RJ, Periselneris JN, Brown JS (June 2020). "Opportunistic bacterial, viral and fungal infections of the lung". Medicine. 48 (6): 366–372. doi:10.1016/j.mpmed.2020.03.006. PMC 7206443. PMID 32390758.
Fonseca Brito L, Brune W, Stahl FR (August 2019). "Cytomegalovirus (CMV) Pneumonitis: Cell Tropism, Inflammation, and Immunity". International Journal of Molecular Sciences. 20 (16): 3865. doi:10.3390/ijms20163865. PMC 6719013. PMID 31398860.
^ Ledergerber B, Egger M, Erard V, Weber R, Hirschel B, Furrer H,et al. (December 1999). "AIDS-related opportunistic illnesses occurring after initiation of potent antiretroviral therapy: the Swiss HIV Cohort Study". JAMA. 282 (23): 2220–6. doi:10.1001/jama.282.23.2220. PMID 10605973.
In patients undergoing chemotherapy, completion of and recovery from treatment is the primary method for immune system restoration. In a select subset of high risk patients, granulocyte colony stimulating factors (G-CSF) can be used to aid immune system recovery.[51][52]
Since opportunistic infections can cause severe disease, much emphasis is placed on measures to prevent infection. Such a strategy usually includes restoration of the immune system as soon as possible, avoiding exposures to infectious agents, and using antimicrobial medications ("prophylactic medications") directed against specific infections.[48]
"Mapping the Epidemiology of Kaposi Sarcoma and Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Among Children in Sub-Saharan Africa: A Review"
Bruchfeld J, Correia-Neves M, Källenius G (February 2015). "Tuberculosis and HIV Coinfection". Cold Spring Harbor Perspectives in Medicine. 5 (7): a017871. doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a017871. PMC 4484961. PMID 25722472.
Histoplasma capsulatum is a species of fungus known to cause histoplasmosis, which can present with an array of symptoms, but often involves respiratory infection.[25][26]
Eating undercooked meat or eggs, unpasteurized dairy products or juices.
Schlossberg D (2015-04-23). Clinical Infectious Disease. Cambridge University Press. pp. 688–. ISBN 978-1-107-03891-2.
Guh AY, Kutty PK (October 2018). "Clostridioides difficile Infection". Annals of Internal Medicine. 169 (7): ITC49–ITC64. doi:10.7326/AITC201810020. PMC 6524133. PMID 30285209.
Erdogan A, Rao SS (April 2015). "Small intestinal fungal overgrowth". Current Gastroenterology Reports. 17 (4): 16. doi:10.1007/s11894-015-0436-2. PMID 25786900. S2CID 3098136.
Gordon SV, Parish T (April 2018). "Microbe Profile: Mycobacterium tuberculosis: Humanity's deadly microbial foe". Microbiology. 164 (4): 437–439. doi:10.1099/mic.0.000601. PMID 29465344.
^ a b "Table 2. Treatment of HIV-Associated Opportunistic Infections (Includes Recommendations for Acute Treatment and Secondary Prophylaxis/Chronic Suppressive/Maintenance Therapy) | NIH". clinicalinfo.hiv.gov. Retrieved 2023-02-20.
Candida albicans is a species of fungus that is associated with oral thrush and gastrointestinal infection.[20][21]
^ Latgé JP, Chamilos G (December 2019). "Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillosis in 2019". Clinical Microbiology Reviews. 33 (1): e00140–18, /cmr/33/1/CMR.00140–18.atom. doi:10.1128/CMR.00140-18. PMC 6860006. PMID 31722890.
Salmonella is a genus of bacteria, known to cause gastrointestinal infections.[13]
Legionella pneumophila is a bacterium that causes Legionnaire’s disease, a respiratory infection.[7][8]
^ Kong C, Neoh HM, Nathan S (March 2016). "Targeting Staphylococcus aureus Toxins: A Potential form of Anti-Virulence Therapy". Toxins. 8 (3): 72. doi:10.3390/toxins8030072. PMC 4810217. PMID 26999200.
The following may be avoided as a preventative measure to reduce risk of infection:
Individuals at higher risk are often prescribed prophylactic medication to prevent an infection from occurring. A person's risk level for developing an opportunistic infection is approximated using the person's CD4 T-cell count and other indications. The table below provides information regarding the treatment management of common opportunistic infections.[54][55][56]
^ "Guidelines for the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in adults and adolescents with HIV: recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, and the HIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America" (PDF). 26 May 2020. Retrieved 28 November 2020.
^ Achermann Y, Goldstein EJ, Coenye T, Shirtliff ME (July 2014). "Propionibacterium acnes: from commensal to opportunistic biofilm-associated implant pathogen". Clinical Microbiology Reviews. 27 (3): 419–40. doi:10.1128/CMR.00092-13. PMC 4135900. PMID 24982315.
^ Gordon SV, Parish T (April 2018). "Microbe Profile: Mycobacterium tuberculosis: Humanity's deadly microbial foe". Microbiology. 164 (4): 437–439. doi:10.1099/mic.0.000601. PMID 29465344.
Clostridioides difficile (formerly known as Clostridium difficile) is a species of bacteria that is known to cause gastrointestinal infection and is typically associated with the hospital setting.[5][6]
^ Caballero MT, Polack FP (May 2018). "Respiratory syncytial virus is an "opportunistic" killer". Pediatric Pulmonology. 53 (5): 664–667. doi:10.1002/ppul.23963. PMC 5947624. PMID 29461021.
Caballero MT, Polack FP (May 2018). "Respiratory syncytial virus is an "opportunistic" killer". Pediatric Pulmonology. 53 (5): 664–667. doi:10.1002/ppul.23963. PMC 5947624. PMID 29461021.
Pan SW, Shu CC, Feng JY, Su WJ (June 2020). "Treatment for Mycobacterium avium complex lung disease". Journal of the Formosan Medical Association = Taiwan Yi Zhi. 119 Suppl 1: S67–S75. doi:10.1016/j.jfma.2020.05.006. PMID 32446754.
In September 2013, New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman announced a settlement with 19 companies to prevent astroturfing. "'Astroturfing' is the 21st century's version of false advertising, and prosecutors have many tools at their disposal to put an end to it," said Scheiderman. The companies paid $350,000 to settle the matter, but the settlement opened the way for private suits as well. "Every state has some version of the statutes New York used," according to lawyer Kelly H. Kolb. "What the New York attorney general has done is, perhaps, to have given private lawyers a road map to file suit."[79][80]
Anderson, Nate (March 26, 2010). "280,000 pro-China astroturfers are running amok online". Ars Technica. Retrieved November 7, 2012.
Mosleh, Mohsen; Martel, Cameron; Eckles, Dean; Rand, David (May 6, 2021). "Perverse Downstream Consequences of Debunking: Being Corrected by Another User for Posting False Political News Increases Subsequent Sharing of Low Quality, Partisan, and Toxic Content in a Twitter Field Experiment". Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Association for Computing Machinery. pp. 1–13. doi:10.1145/3411764.3445642. ISBN 9781450380966. S2CID 233987905 – via ACM Digital Library.
The Koch brothers started a public advocacy group to prevent the development of wind turbines offshore in Massachusetts. The Kennedy family was also involved.[66][67][68][69][70]
"Good and bad reviews: The ethical debate over 'astroturfing'". The Guardian. London. January 9, 2011. Retrieved November 17, 2012.
^ Plummer, Robert (May 22, 2008). "Will fake business blogs crash and burn?". BBC News. Retrieved November 7, 2012.
Elmas, Tuğrulcan; Overdorf, Rebekah; Özkalay, Ahmed Furkan; Aberer, Karl (2021). "Ephemeral Astroturfing Attacks: The Case of Fake Twitter Trends". 6th IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy. Virtual: IEEE. arXiv:1910.07783.
Streitfeld, David (August 25, 2012). "The Best Book Reviews Money Can Buy". The New York Times. Retrieved October 25, 2012.
"Digitizing the Social Contract: Producing American Political Culture in the Age of New Media"
"Perverse Downstream Consequences of Debunking: Being Corrected by Another User for Posting False Political News Increases Subsequent Sharing of Low Quality, Partisan, and Toxic Content in a Twitter Field Experiment"
^ a b Bristow, Michael (December 16, 2008). "China's internet 'spin doctors'". BBC News. Retrieved November 10, 2013.
Slinging Mud: Rude Nicknames, Scurrilous Slogans, and Insulting Slang from Two Centuries of American Politics
^ O'Harrow, Robert (September 12, 2000). "Grass Roots Seeded by Drugmaker". Washington Post. The drugmaker's campaign offers a vivid look at a public relations tactic gaining currency in corporate America: The use of "AstroTurf," or "grass-tops," groups posing as authentic local organizations to promote a product or political aim.
Plummer, Robert (May 22, 2008). "Will fake business blogs crash and burn?". BBC News. Retrieved November 7, 2012.
^ Fontanella-Khan, James (June 27, 2013). "Astroturfing takes root; Brussels". Financial Times. Archived from the original on December 10, 2022.
Adam Peck (March 14, 2019). "Republicans don't want to curb anti-Semitism; they want to weaponize it". Think Progress.
^ Monbiot, George (September 18, 2006). "The denial industry". The Guardian. London. Retrieved September 14, 2012.
Proof that Fidelity Communications is behind the Stop City Funded Internet campaign
^ Menn, Joseph; Sanders, Edmund (August 21, 2001). "Report: Microsoft funded 'grass roots' campaign". Associated Press. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ Wade, Alex (January 9, 2011). "Good and bad reviews: The ethical debate over 'astroturfing'". The Guardian. London. Retrieved November 18, 2012.
^ Lyon, Thomas P.; Maxwell, John W. (2004). "Astroturf: Interest Group Lobbying and Corporate Strategy" (PDF). Journal of Economics & Management Strategy. 13 (4): 561–597. doi:10.1111/j.1430-9134.2004.00023.x. hdl:2027.42/74741. S2CID 44209882. Archived from the original (PDF) on August 11, 2017. Retrieved July 12, 2019.
Mayer, Jane (August 2, 2021). "The Big Money Behind the Big Lie". The New Yorker. Retrieved September 20, 2021. Rally Forge also created a phony left-wing front group, America Progress Now, which promoted Green Party candidates online in 2018, apparently to hurt Democrats in several races.
"Trump's Patrick Moore Tweet Is Fox News Regurgitation at Its Most Dangerous"
^ a b c Menn, Joseph; Edmund Sanders (August 23, 2001). "Lobbyists Tied to Microsoft Wrote Citizens' Letters". The LA Times.
Data mining expert Bing Liu (University of Illinois) estimated that one-third of all consumer reviews on the Internet are fake.[18] According to The New York Times, this has made it hard to tell the difference between "popular sentiment" and "manufactured public opinion".[24] According to an article in the Journal of Business Ethics, astroturfing threatens the legitimacy of genuine grassroots movements. The authors argued that astroturfing that is "purposefully designed to fulfill corporate agendas, manipulate public opinion and harm scientific research represents a serious lapse in ethical conduct."[3] A 2011 report found that often paid posters from competing companies are attacking each other in forums and overwhelming regular participants in the process.[25] George Monbiot said that persona-management software supporting astroturfing "could destroy the Internet as a forum for constructive debate".[26] An article in the Journal of Consumer Policy said that regulators and policy makers needed to be more aggressive about astroturfing. The author said that it undermines the public's ability to inform potential customers of sub-standard products or inappropriate business practices, but also noted that fake reviews were difficult to detect.[10]
Ludlow, Peter (June 18, 2013). "The Strange Case of Barrett Brown". The Nation.
Bristow, Michael (December 16, 2008). "China's internet 'spin doctors'". BBC News. Retrieved November 10, 2013.
^ "Kennedys, Kochs help kill planned wind farm off Cape Cod". Fox News. December 4, 2017. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
Another technique is the use of sockpuppets, where a single person creates multiple identities online to give the appearance of grassroots support. Sockpuppets may post positive reviews about a product, attack participants that criticize the organization, or post negative reviews and comments about competitors, under fake identities.[19][30] Astroturfing businesses may pay staff based on the number of posts they make that are not flagged by moderators.[25] Persona management software may be used so that each paid poster can manage five to seventy convincing online personas without getting them confused.[26][31]Online astroturfing using sockpuppets is a form of Sybil attack against distributed systems.
In October 2018, after denying that they had paid for people to show up in support of a controversial power plant development project in New Orleans, Entergy was fined five million dollars for using astroturf firm The Hawthorn Group to provide actors to prevent real community members' voices from being counted at city council meetings and show false grassroots support.[16]
"Perceived Popularity and Online Political Dissent: Evidence from Twitter in Venezuela"
^ Roberts, Jeff (April 26, 2012). "The ethics of astro-turfing: sleazy or smart business?". Giga Om. Retrieved June 20, 2014.
Report: Entergy Knew It Was Paying for Actors at Not 1, but 2 Meetings
Sanger, Ryan (August 19, 2009). "Keep Off the Astroturf". opinion. Retrieved August 26, 2009.
Slutsky, Irina (February 24, 2011). "'Organic' SXSW Blogger Buzz? More Like Marketing Astroturf". Ad Age. Retrieved November 9, 2012.
"Military's 'persona' software cost millions, used for 'classified social media activities'"
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Howard, Philip N. (2003). "Digitizing the Social Contract: Producing American Political Culture in the Age of New Media". The Communication Review. 6 (3): 213–45. doi:10.1080/10714420390226270. S2CID 145413399.
On April 11, 2022, seven weeks into the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, BBC published the results of investigation of a network of Facebook groups with the overall aim to promote the Russian president Vladimir Putin as a hero standing up to the West with overwhelming international support. With the help of researchers from the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, members, activities, and interrelations in 10 pro-Putin public groups with more than 650,000 members between them in the time of writing, boasting names such as Vladimir Putin - Leader of the Free World, were analyzed. Over a month, researchers counted 16,500 posts, receiving more than 3.6 million interactions. The campaign "creates the appearance of widespread support for Putin and the Kremlin in the shadow of the invasion and relies on... inauthentic accounts to accomplish its goal", according to the ISD report. Lead researcher Moustafa Ayad described the network and its practice of using tens of duplicate accounts in potential violation of Facebook's rules on inauthentic behavior as an example of astroturfing.[88]
^ Patrick, Aaron (April 5, 2007). "Ask.Com's 'Revolt' Risks Costly Clicks". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved November 18, 2012.
^ a b c d Kolivos, Eugenia, and Anna Kuperman. "Web Of Lies – Legal Implications Of Astroturfing." Keeping Good Companies (14447614) 64.1 (2012): 38-41. Business Source Complete. Web. 10 November 2012.
Roberts, Jeff (April 26, 2012). "The ethics of astro-turfing". PaidContent. Retrieved September 10, 2012.
"Company Settles With State Attorney General Over Fake Online Customer Reviews." Computer & Internet Lawyer 26.10 (2009): 32. Computers & Applied Sciences Complete. Web. 11 November 2012.
^ a b "Husin tietojärjestelmän puolustajaa arveltiin keksityksi". September 13, 2012. Retrieved November 18, 2012.
^ Gross, Grant (August 26, 2010). "FTC settles complaint about fake video game testimonials". Reuters. Retrieved September 25, 2012.
^ "Persona Management Software. Solicitation Number: RTB220610". Archived from the original on February 23, 2011. Retrieved October 12, 2012."Mirror" (PDF). Washington Post. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 19, 2017. Retrieved August 24, 2017.
Malbon, Justin (2013). "Taking Fake Online Consumer Reviews Seriously". Journal of Consumer Policy. 36 (2): 139–157. doi:10.1007/s10603-012-9216-7. ISSN 0168-7034. S2CID 153986049.
The United Kingdom has the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations,[14] which prohibits "Falsely representing oneself as a consumer." They allow for up to two years in prison and unlimited fines for breaches.[10] Additionally, the advertising industry in the UK has adopted many voluntary policies, such as the Code of Non-Broadcast Advertising, Sale, Promotion and Direct Marketing. A trade association, the Advertising Standards Authority, investigates complaints of breaches. The policy requires that marketing professionals not mislead their audience, including by omitting a disclosure of their material connection.[10]
"Kennedys, Kochs help kill planned wind farm off Cape Cod". Fox News. December 4, 2017. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
^ Tim Doyle (September 21, 2006). "Koch's New Fight". Forbes. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
In 2006, two Edelman employees created a blog called "Wal-Marting Across America" about two people traveling to Wal-Marts across the country. The blog gave the appearance of being operated by spontaneous consumers, but was actually operated on behalf of Working Families for Walmart, a group funded by Wal-Mart.[74][75] In 2007, Ask.com deployed an anti-Google advertising campaign portraying Google as an "information monopoly" that was damaging the Internet. The ad was designed to give the appearance of a popular movement and did not disclose it was funded by a competitor.[76]
Menn, Joseph; Sanders, Edmund (August 21, 2001). "Report: Microsoft funded 'grass roots' campaign". Associated Press. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ "Stop City-Funded Internet". Archived from the original on January 29, 2018. Retrieved March 10, 2018.
Joshua Davidovich (March 12, 2019). "Right of passage: 8 things to know for March 12". The Times of Israel. Retrieved March 24, 2019.
^ Anderson, Nate (March 26, 2010). "280,000 pro-China astroturfers are running amok online". Ars Technica. Retrieved November 7, 2012.
Stephen C. Webster (February 22, 2011). "Military's 'persona' software cost millions, used for 'classified social media activities'". The Raw Story. Archived from the original on February 23, 2011. Retrieved February 24, 2011.
^ Mayer, Jane (August 2, 2021). "The Big Money Behind the Big Lie". The New Yorker. Retrieved September 20, 2021. Rally Forge also created a phony left-wing front group, America Progress Now, which promoted Green Party candidates online in 2018, apparently to hurt Democrats in several races.
Wong, Julia (June 11, 2021). "Revealed: rightwing firm posed as leftist group on Facebook to divide Democrats". The Guardian. San Francisco. Retrieved September 26, 2021. One [Facebook] product manager .. described it as 'a crystal clear example of astroturfing' – deceptive campaign tactics designed to appear as grassroots actions
^ a b Rosemarie Ostler (September 6, 2011). Slinging Mud: Rude Nicknames, Scurrilous Slogans, and Insulting Slang from Two Centuries of American Politics. Penguin Books. pp. 141–. ISBN 978-1-101-54413-6. Retrieved November 9, 2012.
Wade, Alex (January 9, 2011). "Good and bad reviews: The ethical debate over 'astroturfing'". The Guardian. London. Retrieved November 18, 2012.
Linnett, Carol; Gutstein, Donald (July 22, 2015). "'Grassroots' Canada Action Carries Deep Ties to Conservative Party, Oil and Gas Industry". The Narwhal. Retrieved April 25, 2019.
^ MacAskill, Ewen; Cobain, Ian (January 8, 2017). "Israeli diplomat who plotted against MPs also set up political groups". The Guardian. Retrieved December 29, 2021. He also says Robin should not tell other people that the embassy has established the group. 'LFI [Labour Friends of Israel] is an independent organisation. No one likes that someone is managing his organisation. That really is the first rule in politics.'
^ Greg Turner (January 12, 2013). "Anti-Cape Wind funder blows $19.5M on Osterville estate". Boston Herald. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
^ Kopp, Emily (April 6, 2018). "Patient Advocacy Groups Take In Millions From Drugmakers. Is There A Payback?". Kaiser Health News.
Cook, Nancy (November 26, 2012). "Billionaire Peterson Sounds Alarm on Deficit". National Journal. Retrieved November 23, 2013.
In political science, it is defined as the process of seeking electoral victory or legislative relief for grievances by helping political actors find and mobilize a sympathetic public, and is designed to create the image of public consensus where there is none.[1][2] Astroturfing is the use of fake grassroots efforts that primarily focus on influencing public opinion and typically are funded by corporations and governmental entities to form opinions.[3]
"After 16 Years, Hopes for Cape Cod Wind Farm Float Away"
Chibbaro, Lou (August 27, 2019). "homepage news AIDS group official resigns over group's acceptance of drug company funds". Washington Blade.
^ Stoff, Rick. "Astroturf-Roots Campaign." St. Louis Journalism Review 36)2 (2006): 12-21. Communication & Mass Media Complete. Web. 11 November 2012.
Brush, Pete (September 23, 2013). "NY 'Astroturfing' Cases Mark Fertile Ground For Civil Suits". Law360. LexisNexis. Retrieved February 20, 2014.
^ Linnett, Carol; Gutstein, Donald (July 22, 2015). "'Grassroots' Canada Action Carries Deep Ties to Conservative Party, Oil and Gas Industry". The Narwhal. Retrieved April 25, 2019.
"Bonner & Associates: The Long and Undemocratic History of Astroturfing"
^ "Good and bad reviews: The ethical debate over 'astroturfing'". The Guardian. London. January 9, 2011. Retrieved November 17, 2012.
According to the Financial Times, astroturfing is "commonplace" in American politics, but was "revolutionary" in Europe when it was exposed that the European Privacy Association, an anti-privacy "think-tank", was actually sponsored by technology companies.[41]
"Stop City-Funded Internet". Archived from the original on January 29, 2018. Retrieved March 10, 2018.
^ Lee, Caroline (Winter 2010). "The Roots Of Astroturfing". Contexts. 9: 73–75. doi:10.1525/ctx.2010.9.1.73. ISSN 1536-5042.
Valiante, Giuseppe (June 20, 2014). "Feds weigh in on allegations Russia behind anti-fracking movement". Toronto Sun. Retrieved April 25, 2019.
6History of incidents											Toggle History of incidents subsection																					6.1Origins																											6.2Pharmaceuticals																											6.3Tobacco																											6.4Internet																											6.5Politics																											6.6Environment																											6.7Commercial																											6.8State-sponsored
"Laitos-lehti: Keksitty henkilö kehuu Husin tietojärjestelmää". TS.fi. September 13, 2012. Retrieved November 18, 2012.
In the book Grassroots for Hire: Public Affairs Consultants in American Democracy, Edward Walker defines "astroturfing" as public participation that is perceived as heavily incented, as fraudulent (claims are attributed to those who did not make such statements), or as an elite campaign masquerading as a mass movement.[17] Although not all campaigns by professional grassroots lobbying consultants meet this definition, the book finds that the elite-sponsored grassroots campaigns often fail when they are not transparent about their sources of sponsorship and/or fail to develop partnerships with constituencies that have an independent interest in the issue. Walker highlights the case of Working Families for Wal-Mart, in which the campaign's lack of transparency led to its demise.
Gross, Grant (August 26, 2010). "FTC settles complaint about fake video game testimonials". Reuters. Retrieved September 25, 2012.
"'Grassroots' Canada Action Carries Deep Ties to Conservative Party, Oil and Gas Industry"
^ Brush, Pete (September 23, 2013). "NY 'Astroturfing' Cases Mark Fertile Ground For Civil Suits". Law360. LexisNexis. Retrieved February 20, 2014.
^ Cook, Nancy (November 26, 2012). "Billionaire Peterson Sounds Alarm on Deficit". National Journal. Retrieved November 23, 2013.
The term "astroturfing" was first coined in 1985 by Texas Democratic Party senator Lloyd Bentsen when he said, "a fellow from Texas can tell the difference between grass roots and AstroTurf... this is generated mail."[15][42] Bentsen was describing a "mountain of cards and letters" sent to his office to promote insurance industry interests.[43]
^ a b Ratkiewicz, Jacob; Conover, Michael; Meiss, Mark; Gonçalves, Bruno; Alessandro Flammini; Filippo Menczer (November 16, 2010). "Detecting and Tracking the Spread of Astroturf Memes in Microblog Streams". Proceedings of the 20th International Conference Companion on World Wide Web. p. 249. arXiv:1011.3768. doi:10.1145/1963192.1963301. ISBN 9781450306379.
Walter Brooks (May 28, 2013). "The men behind those anti-wind farm ads". Cap Cod Today. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
^ a b Adam Peck (March 14, 2019). "Republicans don't want to curb anti-Semitism; they want to weaponize it". Think Progress.
In response to the passage of tobacco control legislation in the US, Philip Morris, Burson-Marsteller and other tobacco interests created the National Smokers Alliance (NSA) in 1993. The NSA and other tobacco interests initiated an aggressive public relations campaign from 1994 to 1999 in an effort to exaggerate the appearance of grassroots support for smoker's rights. According to an article in the Journal of Health Communication, the NSA had mixed success at defeating bills that were damaging revenues of tobacco interests.[48]
Fontanella-Khan, James (June 27, 2013). "Astroturfing takes root; Brussels". Financial Times. Archived from the original on December 10, 2022.
Einenkel, Walter. "It turns out the Missouri grassroots "Stop City-Funded Internet" movement was a cable monopoly". Daily Kos. Retrieved March 10, 2018.
King, Gary; Pan, Jennifer; Roberts, Margaret E. (2017). "How the Chinese Government Fabricates Social Media Posts for Strategic Distraction, Not Engaged Argument". American Political Science Review. 111 (3): 484–501. doi:10.1017/S0003055417000144. ISSN 0003-0554.
^ Mazza, Juliana (October 30, 2018)."Report: Entergy Knew It Was Paying for Actors at Not 1, but 2 Meetings."WDSU.Retrieved from WDSU.com, February 3, 2019.
"It turns out the Missouri grassroots "Stop City-Funded Internet" movement was a cable monopoly"
^ "PR firm admits it's behind Wal-Mart blogs". CNN. October 20, 2006. Retrieved November 10, 2008.
Find sources: "Astroturfing" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ a b Mosleh, Mohsen; Martel, Cameron; Eckles, Dean; Rand, David (May 6, 2021). "Perverse Downstream Consequences of Debunking: Being Corrected by Another User for Posting False Political News Increases Subsequent Sharing of Low Quality, Partisan, and Toxic Content in a Twitter Field Experiment". Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Association for Computing Machinery. pp. 1–13. doi:10.1145/3411764.3445642. ISBN 9781450380966. S2CID 233987905 – via ACM Digital Library.
Doctorow, Cory (February 18, 2011). "HBGary's high-volume astroturfing technology and the Feds who requested it". boingboing.
"PR firm admits it's behind Wal-Mart blogs". CNN. October 20, 2006. Retrieved November 10, 2008.
"Revealed: rightwing firm posed as leftist group on Facebook to divide Democrats"
"HBGary's high-volume astroturfing technology and the Feds who requested it"
In the European Union, the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive requires that paid-for editorial content in the media provide a clear disclosure that the content is a sponsored advertisement.[10] Additionally, it prohibits those with a material connection from misleading readers into thinking they are a regular consumer.[10]
Cho, Charles H.; Martens, Martin L.; Kim, Hakkyun; Rodrigue, Michelle (2011). "Astroturfing Global Warming: It Isn't Always Greener on the Other Side of the Fence". Journal of Business Ethics. 104 (4): 571–587. doi:10.1007/s10551-011-0950-6. ISSN 0167-4544. S2CID 154213597.
In Canada, a coalition of oil and gas company executives grouped under the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers also initiated a series of Canadian actions to advocate for the oil and gas industry in Canada through mainstream and social media, and using online campaigning to generate public support for fossil fuel energy projects.[73]
^ a b c d Cho, Charles H.; Martens, Martin L.; Kim, Hakkyun; Rodrigue, Michelle (2011). "Astroturfing Global Warming: It Isn't Always Greener on the Other Side of the Fence". Journal of Business Ethics. 104 (4): 571–587. doi:10.1007/s10551-011-0950-6. ISSN 0167-4544. S2CID 154213597.
Pulizzi, Henry J. (August 5, 2009). "White House Brushes Off Health-Care Protests". Wall Street Journal. ISSN 0099-9660. Retrieved April 25, 2019.
"PR firm settles with FTC over alleged App Store astroturfing"
"Israeli diplomat who plotted against MPs also set up political groups"
^ Friel, Alan (October 2009). "FTC's New Endorsement Guides Call for Policies and Procedures". Wildman Harrold.
^ Elmas, Tuğrulcan; Overdorf, Rebekah; Özkalay, Ahmed Furkan; Aberer, Karl (2021). "Ephemeral Astroturfing Attacks: The Case of Fake Twitter Trends". 6th IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy. Virtual: IEEE. arXiv:1910.07783.
^ Crabbe, Nathan. "Using other people's words as your own". Gainesville Sun. Retrieved April 25, 2019.
According to an article in the Journal of Consumer Policy, academics disagree on how prolific astroturfing is.[10]
Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: Isaac Protiva (January 31, 2018). Proof that Fidelity Communications is behind the Stop City Funded Internet campaign (Video). Retrieved March 10, 2018.
Nella Van Dyke; David S. Meyer (February 24, 2016). Understanding the Tea Party Movement. Routledge. p. 41. ISBN 978-1-317-00457-8.
Crabbe, Nathan. "Using other people's words as your own". Gainesville Sun. Retrieved April 25, 2019.
^ a b Ratkiewicz, Jacob; Conover, Michael; Meiss, Mark; Gonçalves, Bruno; Snehal Patil; Alessandro Flammini; Filippo Menczer (July 17–21, 2011). "Detecting and Tracking Political Abuse in Social Media". Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media. Menlo Park, CA, USA: Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. ISBN 978-1-57735-505-2. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 7, 2019. Retrieved August 24, 2011.
In October and November 2018, conservative marketing firm Rally Forge created what The New Yorker described as "a phony left-wing front group, America Progress Now, which promoted Green Party candidates online in 2018, apparently to hurt Democrats in several races."[59] Its ads on Facebook used socialist memes and slogans to attack Democrats and urge third-party protest voting in several tight races, including the Wisconsin governor contest.[60][61]
Morales, Juan S. (2020). "Perceived Popularity and Online Political Dissent: Evidence from Twitter in Venezuela". International Journal of Press/Politics. 25: 5–27. doi:10.1177/1940161219872942. S2CID 203053725.
^ "This Is How Big Pharma Wins". New York Magazine. February 21, 2022. Retrieved March 15, 2023. The funding and creation of front groups and astroturf "partnerships" is a ceaseless churn, with outfits activated and retired as needed...Some of these groups are easily identified as astroturf organizations, but industry cash and messaging are also laundered through established national organizations
^ OUTLAW.COM (December 8, 2009). "EU rolls out out astroturf guide for consumer laws". The Register. Retrieved November 10, 2012.
^ Roberts, Jeff (April 26, 2012). "The ethics of astro-turfing". PaidContent. Retrieved September 10, 2012.
Monbiot, George (September 18, 2006). "The denial industry". The Guardian. London. Retrieved September 14, 2012.
Email, automated phone calls, form letters, and the Internet made astroturfing more economical and prolific in the late 1990s.[26][42] In 2001, as Microsoft was defending itself against an antitrust lawsuit, Americans for Technology Leadership (ATL), a group heavily funded by Microsoft, initiated a letter-writing campaign. ATL contacted constituents under the guise of conducting a poll and sent pro-Microsoft consumers form and sample letters to send to involved lawmakers. The effort was designed to make it appear as though there was public support for a sympathetic ruling in the antitrust lawsuit.[36][49]
^ Confessore, Nicholas (January 9, 2013). "Public Goals, Private Interests in Debt Campaign". The New York Times. Retrieved November 22, 2013.
O'Harrow, Robert (September 12, 2000). "Grass Roots Seeded by Drugmaker". Washington Post. The drugmaker's campaign offers a vivid look at a public relations tactic gaining currency in corporate America: The use of "AstroTurf," or "grass-tops," groups posing as authentic local organizations to promote a product or political aim.
^ Sanger, Ryan (August 19, 2009). "Keep Off the Astroturf". opinion. Retrieved August 26, 2009.
Fielding, Nick; Ian Cobain (March 17, 2011). "Revealed: US spy operation that manipulates social media". The Guardian. London. Retrieved November 12, 2012.
^ Einenkel, Walter (February 8, 2018). "It turns out the Missouri grassroots 'Stop City-Funded Internet' movement was a cable monopoly". Daily Kos. Retrieved March 10, 2018.
^ Stephen C. Webster (February 22, 2011). "Military's 'persona' software cost millions, used for 'classified social media activities'". The Raw Story. Archived from the original on February 23, 2011. Retrieved February 24, 2011.
Talia Lavin (March 14, 2019). "Why the GOP Isn't Getting the Jewish Vote Anytime Soon". GQ.com. Condé Nast. Retrieved March 24, 2019. it's an operation entirely engineered by conservative flacks, doing its best to masquerade as an authentic grassroots movement.
Grandia, Kevin (August 26, 2009). "Bonner & Associates: The Long and Undemocratic History of Astroturfing". Huffington Post. Retrieved November 7, 2012.
^ Jack Holmes (March 12, 2019). "Trump's Patrick Moore Tweet Is Fox News Regurgitation at Its Most Dangerous". Esquire. Retrieved March 24, 2019.
^ Ludlow, Peter (June 18, 2013). "The Strange Case of Barrett Brown". The Nation.
Some organizations in the Tea Party movement have been accused of being astroturfed.[58]
^ Ben Smith (August 21, 2009). "The Summer of Astroturf". Politico. Retrieved August 28, 2009.
^ a b Rockefeller, Happy (February 16, 2011). "UPDATED: The HB Gary Email That Should Concern Us All". Daily Kos.
^ Slutsky, Irina (February 24, 2011). "'Organic' SXSW Blogger Buzz? More Like Marketing Astroturf". Ad Age. Retrieved November 9, 2012.
Katharine Q. Seelye (December 19, 2017). "After 16 Years, Hopes for Cape Cod Wind Farm Float Away". New York Times. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
Foresman, Chris (August 27, 2010). "PR firm settles with FTC over alleged App Store astroturfing". Ars Technica. Archived from the original on October 27, 2012. Retrieved November 7, 2012.
In January 2021, a team led by Mohsen Mosleh conducted a politically oriented astroturfing campaign on Twitter, using "a set of human-looking bot accounts"; each bot would search for users posting links the researchers considered to be fake news, and "tweet a public reply message to the user’s tweet that contained the link to the false story". 1,586 spam replies were made over the course of fourteen days, until Twitter detected and suspended all of the bot accounts.[8]
^ Einenkel, Walter. "It turns out the Missouri grassroots "Stop City-Funded Internet" movement was a cable monopoly". Daily Kos. Retrieved March 10, 2018.
In 2014, the Toronto Sun conservative media organization has published an article accusing Russia of using astroturf tactics to drum up anti-fracking sentiment across Europe and the West, supposedly in order to maintain dominance in oil exports through Ukraine.[72]
^ Sirkes, Sue (February 8, 2018). "American pro-Israel lobby girds for Al Jazeera exposé". Times of Israel. Retrieved December 29, 2021. UK's official media watchdog, Ofcom, rejected a complaint against an earlier Al Jazeera documentary that exposed an Israeli embassy official attempting to influence British lawmakers. Ofcom said the network's reporting, which led to the resignation of Shai Masot, who was filmed plotting to 'take down' British lawmakers seen as unfriendly to Israel, was not anti-Semitic.
"Husin tietojärjestelmän puolustajaa arveltiin keksityksi". September 13, 2012. Retrieved November 18, 2012.
Kolivos, Eugenia, and Anna Kuperman. "Web Of Lies – Legal Implications Of Astroturfing." Keeping Good Companies (14447614) 64.1 (2012): 38-41. Business Source Complete. Web. 10 November 2012.
^ a b Ratkiewicz, Jacob; Conover, Michael; Meiss, Mark; Gonçalves, Bruno; Snehal Patil; Alessandro Flammini; Filippo Menczer (2011). "Truthy: mapping the spread of astroturf in microblog streams". Proceedings of the 20th international conference companion on World wide web. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. pp. 249–252. arXiv:1011.3768. doi:10.1145/1963192.1963301. ISBN 978-1-4503-0637-9. Retrieved April 25, 2011.
In June 2010, the United States Air Force solicited for "persona management" software that would "enable an operator to exercise a number of different online persons from the same workstation and without fear of being discovered by sophisticated adversaries. Personas must be able to appear to originate in nearly any part of the world and can interact through conventional online services and social media platforms..."[84] The $2.6 million contract was awarded to Ntrepid for astroturfing software the military would use to spread pro-American propaganda in the Middle East, and disrupt extremist propaganda and recruitment. The contract is thought to have been awarded as part of a program called Operation Earnest Voice, which was first developed as a psychological warfare weapon against the online presence of groups ranged against coalition forces.[26][85][86][87]
"Kennedys, Kochs help kill planned wind farm off Cape Cod"
Jack Goodman, Olga Robinson (April 11, 2022). "Putin's mysterious Facebook 'superfans' on a mission". BBC. Retrieved April 11, 2022.
Please help improve this section by clarifying or removing indiscriminate details. If importance cannot be established, the section is likely to be moved to another article, pseudo-redirected, or removed.Find sources: "Astroturfing" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
On the internet, astroturfers use software to mask their identity. Sometimes one individual operates through many personas to give the impression of widespread support for their client's agenda.[4][5] Some studies suggest astroturfing can alter public viewpoints and create enough doubt to inhibit action.[6][7] In the first systematic study of astroturfing in the United States, Oxford Professor Philip N. Howard argued that the internet was making it much easier for powerful lobbyists and political movements to activate small groups of aggrieved citizens to have an exaggerated importance in public policy debates.[2] Astroturfed accounts on social media do not always require humans to write their posts; one January 2021 study detailed a "set of human-looking bot accounts" used to post political content, which was able to operate automatically for fourteen days (and make 1,586 posts) before being detected and suspended by Twitter.[8] Twitter trends are often targeted by astroturfing as they are used as a proxy for popularity. A study conducted by researchers at EPFL reported that 20% of the global Twitter trends in 2019 were fake, created automatically using fake and compromised accounts which tweet in a coordinated way to mimic grassroots organizing of regular Twitter users.[9]
Monbiot, George (February 24, 2011). "The need to protect the internet from 'astroturfing' grows ever more urgent". The Guardian. London, UK. Archived from the original on February 23, 2011. Retrieved February 24, 2011.
Roberts, Jeff (April 26, 2012). "The ethics of astro-turfing: sleazy or smart business?". Giga Om. Retrieved June 20, 2014.
Some astroturfing operatives defend their practice.[21] Regarding "movements that have organized aggressively to exaggerate their sway," author Ryan Sager said that this "isn't cheating. Doing everything in your power to get your people to show up is basic politics."[22] According to a Porter/Novelli executive, "There will be times when the position you advocate, no matter how well framed and supported, will not be accepted by the public simply because you are who you are."[23]
Kopp, Emily (April 6, 2018). "Patient Advocacy Groups Take In Millions From Drugmakers. Is There A Payback?". Kaiser Health News.
^ a b c d Streitfeld, David (August 25, 2012). "The Best Book Reviews Money Can Buy". The New York Times. Retrieved October 25, 2012.
Tim Doyle (September 21, 2006). "Koch's New Fight". Forbes. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
"A.G. Schneiderman Announces Agreement With 19 Companies To Stop Writing Fake Online Reviews And Pay More Than $350,000 In Fines". New York State Office of the Attorney General. Archived from the original on September 26, 2013. Retrieved February 20, 2014.
"homepage news AIDS group official resigns over group's acceptance of drug company funds"
Ratkiewicz, Jacob; Conover, Michael; Meiss, Mark; Gonçalves, Bruno; Snehal Patil; Alessandro Flammini; Filippo Menczer (2011). "Truthy: mapping the spread of astroturf in microblog streams". Proceedings of the 20th international conference companion on World wide web. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. pp. 249–252. arXiv:1011.3768. doi:10.1145/1963192.1963301. ISBN 978-1-4503-0637-9. Retrieved April 25, 2011.
^ Grandia, Kevin (August 26, 2009). "Bonner & Associates: The Long and Undemocratic History of Astroturfing". Huffington Post. Retrieved November 7, 2012.
Lyon, Thomas P.; Maxwell, John W. (2004). "Astroturf: Interest Group Lobbying and Corporate Strategy" (PDF). Journal of Economics & Management Strategy. 13 (4): 561–597. doi:10.1111/j.1430-9134.2004.00023.x. hdl:2027.42/74741. S2CID 44209882. Archived from the original (PDF) on August 11, 2017. Retrieved July 12, 2019.
"UPDATED: The HB Gary Email That Should Concern Us All"
Walker, Edward (2014). Grassroots for Hire: Public Affairs Consultants in American Democracy. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press. p. 33. ISBN 9781107619012.
Givel, Michael (2007). "Consent and Counter-Mobilization: The Case of The National Smokers Alliance". Journal of Health Communication. 12 (4): 339–357. doi:10.1080/10810730701326002. ISSN 1081-0730. PMID 17558787. S2CID 20124171.
^ "A.G. Schneiderman Announces Agreement With 19 Companies To Stop Writing Fake Online Reviews And Pay More Than $350,000 In Fines". New York State Office of the Attorney General. Archived from the original on September 26, 2013. Retrieved February 20, 2014.
MacAskill, Ewen; Cobain, Ian (January 8, 2017). "Israeli diplomat who plotted against MPs also set up political groups". The Guardian. Retrieved December 29, 2021. He also says Robin should not tell other people that the embassy has established the group. 'LFI [Labour Friends of Israel] is an independent organisation. No one likes that someone is managing his organisation. That really is the first rule in politics.'
"The need to protect the internet from 'astroturfing' grows ever more urgent"
"Right of passage: 8 things to know for March 12"
In Australia, astroturfing is regulated by Section 18 of the Australian Consumer Law, which broadly prohibits "misleading and deceptive conduct". According to the Journal of Consumer Policy, Australia's laws, which were introduced in 1975, are more vague. In most cases, they are enforced through lawsuits from competitors, rather than the regulatory body, the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission.[10] There is also an International Consumer Protection and Enforcement Network (ICPEN).[15]
In 2008, an expert on Chinese affairs, Rebecca MacKinnon, estimated the Chinese government employed 280,000 in a government-sponsored astroturfing operation to post pro-government propaganda on social media and drown out voices of dissent.[25][83]
Many countries have laws that prohibit more overt astroturfing practices.[10] In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) may send cease-and-desist orders or require a fine of $16,000 per day for those that violate its "Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising".[10][11] The FTC's guides were updated in 2009 to address social media and word-of-mouth marketing.[12][13] According to an article in the Journal of Consumer Policy, the FTC's guides holds advertisers responsible for ensuring bloggers or product endorsers comply with the guides, and any product endorsers with a material connection are required to provide honest reviews.[10]
^ Morales, Juan S. (2020). "Perceived Popularity and Online Political Dissent: Evidence from Twitter in Venezuela". International Journal of Press/Politics. 25: 5–27. doi:10.1177/1940161219872942. S2CID 203053725.
"Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising" (PDF). Federal Trade Commission. Retrieved June 20, 2014.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Howard, Philip N. (2003). "Digitizing the Social Contract: Producing American Political Culture in the Age of New Media". The Communication Review. 6 (3): 213–45. doi:10.1080/10714420390226270. S2CID 145413399.
Persona management software can age accounts and simulate the activity of attending a conference automatically to make it more convincing that they are genuine.[35] At HBGary, employees are given separate thumb drives that contain online accounts for individual identities and visual cues to remind the employee which identity they are using at the time.[35]
OUTLAW.COM (December 8, 2009). "EU rolls out out astroturf guide for consumer laws". The Register. Retrieved November 10, 2012.
"It turns out the Missouri grassroots 'Stop City-Funded Internet' movement was a cable monopoly"
Ratkiewicz, Jacob; Conover, Michael; Meiss, Mark; Gonçalves, Bruno; Snehal Patil; Alessandro Flammini; Filippo Menczer (July 17–21, 2011). "Detecting and Tracking Political Abuse in Social Media". Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media. Menlo Park, CA, USA: Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. ISBN 978-1-57735-505-2. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 7, 2019. Retrieved August 24, 2011.
^ a b "Company Settles With State Attorney General Over Fake Online Customer Reviews." Computer & Internet Lawyer 26.10 (2009): 32. Computers & Applied Sciences Complete. Web. 11 November 2012.
Use of one or more front groups is one astroturfing technique. These groups typically present themselves as serving the public interest, while actually working on behalf of a corporate or political sponsor.[27] Front groups may resist legislation and scientific consensus that is damaging to the sponsor's business by emphasizing minority viewpoints, instilling doubt and publishing counterclaims by corporate-sponsored experts.[3] Fake blogs can also be created that appear to be written by consumers, while actually being operated by a commercial or political interest.[28] Some political movements have provided incentives for members of the public to send a letter to the editor at their local paper, often using a copy and paste form letter that is published in dozens of newspapers verbatim.[29]
Cheng Chen; Kui Wu; Venkatesh Srinivasan; Xudong Zhang (November 18, 2011). "Battling the Internet Water Army: Detection of Hidden Paid Posters". arXiv:1111.4297 [cs.SI].
Mass letters may be printed on personalized stationery using different typefaces, colors and words to make them appear personal.[36]
Lee, Caroline (Winter 2010). "The Roots Of Astroturfing". Contexts. 9: 73–75. doi:10.1525/ctx.2010.9.1.73. ISSN 1536-5042.
^ Valiante, Giuseppe (June 20, 2014). "Feds weigh in on allegations Russia behind anti-fracking movement". Toronto Sun. Retrieved April 25, 2019.
Astroturfing is the practice of masking the sponsors of a message or organization (e.g., political, advertising, religious or public relations) to make it appear as though it originates from and is supported by grassroots participants. It is a practice intended to give the statements or organizations credibility by withholding information about the source's financial connection. The term astroturfing is derived from AstroTurf, a brand of synthetic carpeting designed to resemble natural grass, as a play on the word "grassroots". The implication behind the use of the term is that instead of a "true" or "natural" grassroots effort behind the activity in question, there is a "fake" or "artificial" appearance of support.
Friel, Alan (October 2009). "FTC's New Endorsement Guides Call for Policies and Procedures". Wildman Harrold.
"Why the GOP Isn't Getting the Jewish Vote Anytime Soon"
Pharmaceutical companies may sponsor patient support groups and simultaneously push them to help market their products.[32] Bloggers who receive free products, paid travel or other accommodations may also be considered astroturfing if those gifts are not disclosed to the reader.[33] Analysts could be considered astroturfing, since they often cover their own clients without disclosing their financial connection. To avoid astroturfing, many organizations and press have policies about gifts, accommodations and disclosures.[34]
According to an article in The New York Times, the Federal Trade Commission rarely enforces its astroturfing laws.[18] Operations are frequently detected if their profile images are recognized[37] or if they are identified through the usage patterns of their accounts.[25] Filippo Menczer's group at Indiana University developed software in 2010 that detects astroturfing on Twitter by recognizing behavioral patterns.[38][39][40]
^ Fielding, Nick; Ian Cobain (March 17, 2011). "Revealed: US spy operation that manipulates social media". The Guardian. London. Retrieved November 12, 2012.
Patrick, Aaron (April 5, 2007). "Ask.Com's 'Revolt' Risks Costly Clicks". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved November 18, 2012.
^ Doctorow, Cory (February 18, 2011). "HBGary's high-volume astroturfing technology and the Feds who requested it". boingboing.
Rosemarie Ostler (September 6, 2011). Slinging Mud: Rude Nicknames, Scurrilous Slogans, and Insulting Slang from Two Centuries of American Politics. Penguin Books. pp. 141–. ISBN 978-1-101-54413-6. Retrieved November 9, 2012.
Confessore, Nicholas (January 9, 2013). "Public Goals, Private Interests in Debt Campaign". The New York Times. Retrieved November 22, 2013.
^ a b c d e f g h i j
In 2009–2010, an Indiana University research study developed a software system to detect astroturfing on Twitter due to the sensitivity of the topic in the run up to the 2010 U.S. midterm elections and account suspensions on the social media platform. The study cited a limited number of examples, all promoting conservative policies and candidates.[38][39][40]
^ a b c d e f g h i j Malbon, Justin (2013). "Taking Fake Online Consumer Reviews Seriously". Journal of Consumer Policy. 36 (2): 139–157. doi:10.1007/s10603-012-9216-7. ISSN 0168-7034. S2CID 153986049.
Patient advocacy groups funded by biopharmaceutical companies are common.[44][45] In 1997, Schering Plough paid a P/R firm Schandwick International, to create a national coalition of patient advocacy groups promoting Schering's Rebotron, a treatment for Hepatitis C. The groups pushed increased testing as a way to manufacture cases and lobbied state legislatures to cover the $18,000 treatment. The groups also hosted telephone "information lines" with scripts written by the drug company and distributed "patient information" pamphlets promoting drug therapies over other alternatives and overstating the danger of the medical condition.[46] Manufacturers of AIDS drugs commonly fund LGBTQ organizations, which in turn, lobby to advance policies that increase AIDS drug sales. In 2019, the communications director of AIDS United, a Washington DC-based coalition of AIDS service organizations, resigned, stating such funding creates conflicts of interest among gay rights activists.[47]
^ a b "Online Journalism Review; August 24, 2004". September 12, 2004. Archived from the original on September 12, 2004. Retrieved August 1, 2011.
In 2010, the Federal Trade Commission settled a complaint with Reverb Communications, who was using interns to post favorable product reviews in Apple's iTunes store for clients.[77] In September 2012, one of the first major identified cases of astroturfing in Finland involved criticisms about the cost of a €1.8 billion patient information system, which was defended by fake online identities operated by involved vendors.[37][78]
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: Isaac Protiva (January 31, 2018). Proof that Fidelity Communications is behind the Stop City Funded Internet campaign (Video). Retrieved March 10, 2018.
"Republicans don't want to curb anti-Semitism; they want to weaponize it"
How the Chinese Government Fabricates Social Media Posts for Strategic Distraction, Not Engaged Argument
^ Katharine Q. Seelye (December 19, 2017). "After 16 Years, Hopes for Cape Cod Wind Farm Float Away". New York Times. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
^ "Laitos-lehti: Keksitty henkilö kehuu Husin tietojärjestelmää". TS.fi. September 13, 2012. Retrieved November 18, 2012.
^ Beder, Sharon (Summer 1998). "Public Relations' Role in Manufacturing Artificial Grass Roots Coalitions". Public Relations Quarterly. 43 (2): 21–3. Archived from the original on July 18, 2015. Retrieved April 23, 2011.
^ a b Howard, Philip (2005). New Media Campaigns and the Managed Citizen. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press. pp. 93, 144. ISBN 9780521612272.
"Online Journalism Review; August 24, 2004". September 12, 2004. Archived from the original on September 12, 2004. Retrieved August 1, 2011.
Stoff, Rick. "Astroturf-Roots Campaign." St. Louis Journalism Review 36)2 (2006): 12-21. Communication & Mass Media Complete. Web. 11 November 2012.
"This Is How Big Pharma Wins". New York Magazine. February 21, 2022. Retrieved March 15, 2023. The funding and creation of front groups and astroturf "partnerships" is a ceaseless churn, with outfits activated and retired as needed...Some of these groups are easily identified as astroturf organizations, but industry cash and messaging are also laundered through established national organizations
Corporate efforts to mobilize the public against environmental regulation accelerated in the US following the election of president Barack Obama.[71]
^ Nella Van Dyke; David S. Meyer (February 24, 2016). Understanding the Tea Party Movement. Routledge. p. 41. ISBN 978-1-317-00457-8.
^ Chibbaro, Lou (August 27, 2019). "homepage news AIDS group official resigns over group's acceptance of drug company funds". Washington Blade.
Greg Turner (January 12, 2013). "Anti-Cape Wind funder blows $19.5M on Osterville estate". Boston Herald. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
"Persona Management Software. Solicitation Number: RTB220610". Archived from the original on February 23, 2011. Retrieved October 12, 2012."Mirror" (PDF). Washington Post. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 19, 2017. Retrieved August 24, 2017.
^ a b c d e Cheng Chen; Kui Wu; Venkatesh Srinivasan; Xudong Zhang (November 18, 2011). "Battling the Internet Water Army: Detection of Hidden Paid Posters". arXiv:1111.4297 [cs.SI].
Beder, Sharon (Summer 1998). "Public Relations' Role in Manufacturing Artificial Grass Roots Coalitions". Public Relations Quarterly. 43 (2): 21–3. Archived from the original on July 18, 2015. Retrieved April 23, 2011.
An Al Jazeera TV series The Lobby documented Israel's attempt to promote more friendly, pro-Israel rhetoric to influence the attitudes of British youth, partly through influencing already established political bodies, such as the National Union of Students and the Labour Party, but also by creating new pro-Israel groups whose affiliation with the Israeli administration was kept secret.[81][82]
"Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising"
^ Foresman, Chris (August 27, 2010). "PR firm settles with FTC over alleged App Store astroturfing". Ars Technica. Archived from the original on October 27, 2012. Retrieved November 7, 2012.
Menn, Joseph; Edmund Sanders (August 23, 2001). "Lobbyists Tied to Microsoft Wrote Citizens' Letters". The LA Times.
Jack Holmes (March 12, 2019). "Trump's Patrick Moore Tweet Is Fox News Regurgitation at Its Most Dangerous". Esquire. Retrieved March 24, 2019.
"A.G. Schneiderman Announces Agreement With 19 Companies To Stop Writing Fake Online Reviews And Pay More Than $350,000 In Fines"
Darlene Storm (February 22, 2011). "Army of fake social media friends to promote propaganda". Computerworld Inc. Archived from the original on February 24, 2011. Retrieved February 24, 2011.
^ Darlene Storm (February 22, 2011). "Army of fake social media friends to promote propaganda". Computerworld Inc. Archived from the original on February 24, 2011. Retrieved February 24, 2011.
"Patient Advocacy Groups Take In Millions From Drugmakers. Is There A Payback?"
^ Walter Brooks (May 28, 2013). "The men behind those anti-wind farm ads". Cap Cod Today. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
^ Pulizzi, Henry J. (August 5, 2009). "White House Brushes Off Health-Care Protests". Wall Street Journal. ISSN 0099-9660. Retrieved April 25, 2019.
^ Talia Lavin (March 14, 2019). "Why the GOP Isn't Getting the Jewish Vote Anytime Soon". GQ.com. Condé Nast. Retrieved March 24, 2019. it's an operation entirely engineered by conservative flacks, doing its best to masquerade as an authentic grassroots movement.
According to Nancy Clark from Precision Communications, grass-roots specialists charge $25 to $75 for each constituent they convince to send a letter to a politician.[36] Paid online commentators in China are purportedly paid 50 cents for each online post that is not removed by moderators,[25] leading to the nickname of the "50-cent party".[20] The New York Times reported that a business selling fake online book reviews charged $999 for 50 reviews and made $28,000 a month shortly after opening.[18]
^ Wong, Julia (June 11, 2021). "Revealed: rightwing firm posed as leftist group on Facebook to divide Democrats". The Guardian. San Francisco. Retrieved September 26, 2021. One [Facebook] product manager .. described it as 'a crystal clear example of astroturfing' – deceptive campaign tactics designed to appear as grassroots actions
^ a b Joshua Davidovich (March 12, 2019). "Right of passage: 8 things to know for March 12". The Times of Israel. Retrieved March 24, 2019.
^ Jack Goodman, Olga Robinson (April 11, 2022). "Putin's mysterious Facebook 'superfans' on a mission". BBC. Retrieved April 11, 2022.
Ben Smith (August 21, 2009). "The Summer of Astroturf". Politico. Retrieved August 28, 2009.
^ "Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising" (PDF). Federal Trade Commission. Retrieved June 20, 2014.
^ Walker, Edward (2014). Grassroots for Hire: Public Affairs Consultants in American Democracy. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press. p. 33. ISBN 9781107619012.
Howard, Philip (2005). New Media Campaigns and the Managed Citizen. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press. pp. 93, 144. ISBN 9780521612272.
^ a b c d Monbiot, George (February 24, 2011). "The need to protect the internet from 'astroturfing' grows ever more urgent". The Guardian. London, UK. Archived from the original on February 23, 2011. Retrieved February 24, 2011.
Sirkes, Sue (February 8, 2018). "American pro-Israel lobby girds for Al Jazeera exposé". Times of Israel. Retrieved December 29, 2021. UK's official media watchdog, Ofcom, rejected a complaint against an earlier Al Jazeera documentary that exposed an Israeli embassy official attempting to influence British lawmakers. Ofcom said the network's reporting, which led to the resignation of Shai Masot, who was filmed plotting to 'take down' British lawmakers seen as unfriendly to Israel, was not anti-Semitic.
Although the term "astroturfing" was not yet developed, an early example of the practice was in Act 1, Scene 2 of Shakespeare's play Julius Caesar. In the play, Gaius Cassius Longinus writes fake letters from "the public" to convince Brutus to assassinate Julius Caesar.[15]
Einenkel, Walter (February 8, 2018). "It turns out the Missouri grassroots 'Stop City-Funded Internet' movement was a cable monopoly". Daily Kos. Retrieved March 10, 2018.
This page was last edited on 16 March 2023, at 02:20 (UTC).
Legal regulations are primarily targeted towards testimonials, endorsements and statements as to the performance or quality of a product. Employees of an organization may be considered acting as customers if their actions are not guided by authority within the company.[15]
Mazza, Juliana (October 30, 2018)."Report: Entergy Knew It Was Paying for Actors at Not 1, but 2 Meetings."WDSU.Retrieved from WDSU.com, February 3, 2019.
Rockefeller, Happy (February 16, 2011). "UPDATED: The HB Gary Email That Should Concern Us All". Daily Kos.
Ratkiewicz, Jacob; Conover, Michael; Meiss, Mark; Gonçalves, Bruno; Alessandro Flammini; Filippo Menczer (November 16, 2010). "Detecting and Tracking the Spread of Astroturf Memes in Microblog Streams". Proceedings of the 20th International Conference Companion on World Wide Web. p. 249. arXiv:1011.3768. doi:10.1145/1963192.1963301. ISBN 9781450306379.
^ Givel, Michael (2007). "Consent and Counter-Mobilization: The Case of The National Smokers Alliance". Journal of Health Communication. 12 (4): 339–357. doi:10.1080/10810730701326002. ISSN 1081-0730. PMID 17558787. S2CID 20124171.
Dougherty, Carter (5 October 2008). "Germany guarantees all private bank accounts". Forbes. Archived from the original on 23 April 2014. Retrieved 6 October 2008.
Masch, Lena, and Oscar W. Gabriel. "How Emotional Displays of Political Leaders Shape Citizen Attitudes: The Case of German Chancellor Angela Merkel." German Politics 29.2 (2020): 158–179.
"Olaf Scholz elected as Germany's new Chancellor, replacing Angela Merkel". ABC News. 8 December 2021. Retrieved 8 December 2021.
"German Chancellor Merkel to Receive Museum's 2017 Elie Wiesel Award". United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. 23 March 2017. Archived from the original on 25 April 2017. Retrieved 25 April 2017.
Merkel features as a main character in two of the three plays that make up the Europeans Trilogy (Bruges, Antwerp, and Tervuren) by Paris-based UK playwright Nick Awde: Bruges (Edinburgh Festival, 2014) and Tervuren (2016). A character named Merkel, accompanied by a sidekick called Schäuble, also appears as the sinister female henchman in Michael Paraskos's novel In Search of Sixpence.[303]
^ "Angela Merkel im Fußballfieber". Focus (in German). 15 March 2013. Archived from the original on 21 May 2013. Retrieved 24 March 2013.
^ "Merkel wirbt für gute Finanzausstattung der Kommunen". Focus Online (in German). dpa. 6 January 2010. Archived from the original on 9 January 2017. Retrieved 29 April 2017.
Escritt, Thomas; Baczynska, Gabriela (22 September 2020). "Germany pushes for EU solidarity on migration – again". Reuters. Archived from the original on 3 February 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
She received the Karlspreis (Charlemagne Prize) in 2008 for distinguished services to European unity.[245][246]
^ "Germany: Coalition split on transit zones". DW.COM. Archived from the original on 4 November 2015. Retrieved 4 November 2015.
^ "Trump praises Xi soon after death of Chinese dissident". CNBC. 13 July 2017. Archived from the original on 25 September 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
"5 Things to Know About Germany's Angela Merkel". The New York Times. Associated Press. 2017.
^ "Merkels Vater gestorben – Termine abgesagt" (in German). newsecho. 3 September 2011. Archived from the original on 14 December 2011. Retrieved 8 September 2011.
"Kauder: 'Der Islam gehört nicht zu Deutschland'" [Kauder: "Islam does not belong to Germany"] (in German). dpa/T-Online. 18 January 2015. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 20 January 2015.
Merkel is of German and Polish descent. Her paternal grandfather, Ludwik Kasner, was a German policeman of Polish ethnicity, who had taken part in Poland's struggle for independence in the early 20th century.[25] He married Merkel's grandmother Margarethe, a German from Berlin, and relocated to her hometown where he worked in the police. In 1930, they Germanized the Polish name Kaźmierczak to Kasner.[26][27][28][29] Merkel's maternal grandparents were the Danzig politician Willi Jentzsch, and Gertrud Alma (née Drange), a daughter of the city clerk of Elbing (now Elbląg, Poland) Emil Drange. Since the mid-1990s, Merkel has publicly mentioned her Polish heritage on several occasions and described herself as a quarter Polish, but her Polish roots became better known as a result of a 2013 biography.[30]
"Merkel calls Sudeten German expulsion "immoral", drawing Czech ire". Czech Radio. 21 June 2018. Archived from the original on 30 November 2021. Retrieved 22 June 2018.
"Angela Merkel – Biography, Political Career & Facts". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 18 January 2018. Retrieved 18 January 2018.
"Chancellor Angela Merkel Receives Global Leadership Award". Archived from the original on 21 July 2011. Retrieved 18 December 2013.
^ "Merkel to Receive an Honorary Doctorate from the Technion". 6 October 2021. Archived from the original on 20 October 2021. Retrieved 19 October 2021.
^ Alison Smale (28 November 2015). "Merkel, While Refusing to Halt Migrant Influx, Works to Limit It". The New York Times. Retrieved 28 November 2015.
"Angela Merkel seen shaking for second time in just over a week"
Spencer, Nick (6 January 2016). "Angela Merkel: How Germany's Iron Chancellor is shaped by her Christianity | Christian News on Christian Today". Christiantoday.com. Archived from the original on 31 March 2017. Retrieved 5 April 2017. "Video Podcast of the German Chancellor #37/2012" (PDF) (in German). 3 November 2012. Archived (PDF) from the original on 11 May 2017. Retrieved 6 April 2017. Ich bin Mitglied der evangelischen Kirche. Ich glaube an Gott, und die Religion ist auch mein ständiger Begleiter – eigentlich in meinem ganzen Leben – gewesen.
^ a b Karnitschnig, Matthew (5 May 2022). "12 Germans who got played by Putin". Politico. Retrieved 27 May 2022.
Moulson, Geir; Rising, David (29 October 2018). "Merkel won't seek a 5th term as German chancellor". AP NEWS. Archived from the original on 30 November 2021. Retrieved 30 December 2018.
^ "Angela Merkel". Forbes. Archived from the original on 25 May 2019. Retrieved 5 December 2018.
At the World Economic Forum in Davos, 2013, she said that Europe had only 7% of the global population and produced only 25% of the global GDP, but that it accounted for almost 50% of global social expenditure. She went on to say that Europe could only maintain its prosperity by being innovative and measuring itself against the best.[158] Since then, this comparison has become a central element in major speeches.[159] The international financial press has widely commented on her thesis, with The Economist saying:
"Angela Merkel condemns 'the barbaric war of aggression waged by Russia,' without introspection"
Rubin, Jennifer (15 November 2016). "The psychological tricks Angela Merkel used to congratulate Donald Trump say a lot about their countries' future relations". The Independent. Archived from the original on 8 May 2019. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
^ a b c Weider, Thomas (2 June 2022). "Angela Merkel condemns 'the barbaric war of aggression waged by Russia,' without introspection". Le Monde.
"Germany: 'No Limit' To Refugees We'll Take In". Sky News. 5 September 2015. Archived from the original on 10 April 2016. Retrieved 10 January 2016.
"True total hottie Frau": Die bislang beste Merkel – Parodie kommt von der BBC
The Whistleblowers: Cynthia Cooper / Coleen Rowley / Sherron Watkins(2002)
Horst Seehofer, leader of the Christian Social Union in Bavaria (CSU)—the sister party of Merkel's Christian Democratic Union—and then-Bavarian Minister President, attacked Merkel's policies.[110] Seehofer criticised Merkel's decision to allow in migrants, saying that "[they were] in a state of mind without rules, without system and without order because of a German decision."[111] Seehofer estimated as many as 30 percent of asylum seekers arriving in Germany claiming to be from Syria are in fact from other countries,[112] and suggested reducing EU funding for member countries that rejected mandatory refugee quotas.[113] Meanwhile, Yasmin Fahimi, secretary-general of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), the junior partner of the ruling coalition, praised Merkel's policy allowing migrants in Hungary to enter Germany as "a strong signal of humanity to show that Europe's values are valid also in difficult times".[110]
Vick, Karl (2015). "Time Person of the Year 2015: Angela Merkel". Time. Archived from the original on 29 May 2019. Retrieved 30 April 2017.
Ferree, Myra Marx. "Angela Merkel: What Does It Mean to Run as a Woman?" German Politics & Society 2006.24#78: 93–107. online
France:Grand Cross of the Order of the Legion of Honour (3 November 2021)
^ "Germany's interior minister Horst Seehofer wants quick action on migrants". 18 June 2018. Archived from the original on 18 June 2018. Retrieved 24 August 2021.
"Merkel meets with the Dalai Lama". Euronews. Archived from the original on 12 January 2009. Retrieved 2 March 2010.
^ Turner, Zeke; Fairless, Tom (28 August 2016). "Half of Germans Oppose Fourth Term for Angela Merkel, Survey Finds". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on 28 August 2016. Retrieved 29 August 2016.
Camargo, Marcelo (25 January 2014). "Germany chancellor and president to watch final at Maracanã". Agenciabrasil.ebc.com.br. Archived from the original on 14 July 2014. Retrieved 11 July 2014.
Grüne/Bündnis 90 Spokesman Renate Künast: "I wouldn't have done it", said Green Party floor leader Renate Künast. It was true that the right to freedom of expression also applies to cartoons, she said. "But if a chancellor also makes a speech on top of that, it serves to heat up the debate."[271]
"The Sarrazin Debate: Germany Is Becoming Islamophobic". Der Spiegel. Archived from the original on 17 September 2011. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
Berlin calls for sanctions on EU states that reject refugee quotas
^ Francis, David (22 September 2013). ""Mama" Merkel May Win Germany, But Not the Euro Zone". The Fiscal Times. Archived from the original on 5 October 2018. Retrieved 22 September 2013.
^ "Bericht der Vorsitzenden der CDU Deutschlands Bundeskanzlerin Dr. Angela Merkel MdB" [Report of the Chairwoman of the German CDU Federal Chancellor Dr. Angela Merkel] (PDF) (in German). 9 September 2011. Archived (PDF) from the original on 30 September 2018. Retrieved 6 April 2017. Es ist doch nicht so, dass wir ein Zuviel an Islam haben, sondern wir haben ein Zuwenig an Christentum.
Near the end of her studies, Merkel sought an assistant professorship at an engineering school. As a condition for getting the job, Merkel was told she would need to agree to report on her colleagues to officers of the Ministry for State Security (Stasi). Merkel declined, using the excuse that she could not keep secrets well enough to be an effective spy.[42]
"Angela Merkel awarded top UN refugee prize, for aid to Syrians fleeing war"
^ Ehni, Ellen (4 August 2016). "ARD-Deutschlandtrend: Mehrheit gegen EU-Beitritt der Türkei". tagesschau.de (in German). Archived from the original on 23 May 2019. Retrieved 9 November 2016.
Langguth, Gerd (August 2005). Angela Merkel (in German). DTV. p. 50. ISBN 3-423-24485-2.
"Ehrung des Mohammed-Karikaturisten: Angela Merkels Risiko". Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (in German). 8 September 2010. Archived from the original on 8 September 2010. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
"Executive Order 11085". Wikisource. Archived from the original on 30 September 2011. Retrieved 1 April 2011. The Medal may be awarded by the President as provided in this order to any person who has made an especially meritorious contribution to (1), the security or national interests of the United States, or (2) world peace, or (3) cultural or other significant public or private endeavors.
Merkel has faced criticism for failing to take a tough line on the People's Republic of China.[287][288][289] The Asia Times reported that "Unlike certain of her European counterparts, her China diplomacy has focused on non-interference in Beijing's internal affairs. As such, Merkel was reportedly furious when her Foreign Minister Heiko Maas received Hong Kong dissident Joshua Wong in Berlin in September [2019], a move that Beijing publicly protested."[290]
"Merkel honours Danish Muhammad cartoonist Westergaard". BBC News. 8 September 2010. Archived from the original on 8 September 2010.
^ "Bundestag wählt Angela Merkel zum vierten Mal zur Bundeskanzlerin". Neue Zürcher Zeitung. dpa. 14 March 2018. Archived from the original on 3 June 2019. Retrieved 5 April 2019.
^ "Obama passes torch to Merkel on farewell tour". France 24. 17 November 2016. Archived from the original on 13 August 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
^ Delhaes, Daniel (28 December 2017). "Waning support puts Merkel's future in doubt". Handelsblatt Global. Archived from the original on 30 November 2021. Retrieved 29 December 2017.
Netherlands:Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Netherlands Lion (13 July 2022)[227]
^ a b Schulz, Sven Christian (5 April 2022). "War der Westen naiv?". Redaktionsnetzwerk Deutschland. Retrieved 27 May 2022.
Among others, in her speech on the occasion of her honorary doctoral degree at the University of Szeged in Hungary, see "Rede von Bundeskanzlerin Merkel anlässlich der Verleihung der Ehrendoktorwürde der Universität Szeged" (in German). Die Bundesregierung. 2 February 2015. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017.
The Study of international relations : the state of the art
^ Langguth, Gerd (2005). Angela Merkel (in German). Munich: dtv. pp. 106–107. ISBN 3-423-24485-2. Angela Merkel war allerdings kein 'einfaches Mitglied', sondern gehörte zum FDJ-Sekretariat des Instituts. Osten [Hans-Jörg Osten] kann sich nicht an die genaue Funktion seiner damaligen Kollegin erinnern. ... Er kann sich nicht definitiv daran erinnern, aber auch nicht ausschließen, dass Angela Merkel die Funktion eines Sekretärs für Agitation und Propaganda wahrnahm. [Angela Merkel was not just an 'ordinary member', but belonged to the FDJ secretariat of the institute. Osten cannot remember the exact function of his erstwhile colleague. ... He cannot remember definitely whether she performed the function of a secretary for agitation and propaganda, but he cannot exclude that possibility.]
^ "Sprachkritik: "Alternativlos" ist das Unwort des Jahres". Der Spiegel (in German). 18 January 2011. Archived from the original on 22 September 2013. Retrieved 2 July 2013.
^ "Merkel 'stands by' past Ukraine NATO decision after Zelenskyy criticism". Deutsche Welle. 4 April 2022. Retrieved 5 April 2022.
^ a b Werner, Reutter (1 December 2005). "Who's Afraid of Angela Merkel?: The Life, Political Career, and Future of the New German Chancellor". International Journal. 61. Archived from the original on 28 April 2017. Retrieved 28 April 2017.
^ "Merkel, Angela" Archived 7 April 2019 at the Wayback Machine (US) and "Merkel, Angela". Lexico UK English Dictionary. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 10 February 2020.
""Mama" Merkel May Win Germany, But Not the Euro Zone"
"Impressions – Angela Merkel". SNL Archives. Archived from the original on 21 January 2016. Retrieved 23 January 2017.
^ Gibbs, Nancy (9 December 2015). "Why Angela Merkel is TIME's Person of the Year". Archived from the original on 14 July 2018. Retrieved 9 December 2015.
^ Kornelius, Stefan (March 2013). Angela Merkel: Die Kanzlerin und ihre Welt (in German). Hoffmann und Campe. p. 7. ISBN 978-3-455-50291-6.
^ a b Karnitschnig, Matthew (28 March 2022). "Putin's useful German idiots". Politico. Retrieved 5 April 2022.
^ "German Chancellor Angela Merkel to receive Johns Hopkins honorary degree". The Hub. 14 July 2021. Archived from the original on 15 July 2021. Retrieved 15 July 2021.
She was subsequently elected to replace Schäuble, becoming the first female leader of a German party on 10 April 2000.[54] Her election surprised many observers, as her personality offered a contrast to the party she had been elected to lead; Merkel is a centrist Protestant originating from predominantly Protestant northern Germany, while the CDU is a male-dominated, socially conservative party with strongholds in western and southern Germany, and its Bavarian sister party, the CSU, has deep Catholic roots.
^ Welle (dw.com), Deutsche. "Merkel reveals politically explosive favorite film | DW | 15 May 2013". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 15 December 2018. Retrieved 14 December 2018.
Van Halsema, Catherine. 2019. "Merkel the Mutti? A Linguistic Analysis of Domestic Language in European News Media Coverage of Angela Merkel." Women & Language. 42(1): 7-22.
^ Latham, Mark (5 January 2008). "Angela Merkel awarded the Charlemagne Prize". Aachen. Archived from the original on 6 May 2008. Retrieved 22 April 2014.
Shamah, David (6 July 2014). "Hamas rockets reach the north, Abbas charges Israel with genocide". The Times of Israel. Archived from the original on 7 June 2020. Retrieved 7 June 2020.
^ Schmidt, Nadine; Vonberg, Judith (2 July 2018). "Germany's Merkel makes deal with interior minister on migration dispute".CNN International Edition. Archived from the original on 3 July 2018. Retrieved 3 July 2018.
In addition to being the first female German chancellor, the first to have grown up in the former East Germany (though she was born in the West),[264] and the youngest German chancellor since the Second World War, Merkel is also the first born after World War II, and the first chancellor of the Federal Republic with a background in natural sciences. While she studied physics, her predecessors studied law, business or history, among other professions.
"German opposition hits 11-year high in polls". France 24. 5 August 2011. Archived from the original on 11 October 2011. Retrieved 23 August 2011.
"Angela Merkel collected news and commentary". The New York Times.
"Pressemitteilung 2008/106 der Universität Leipzig" (in German). Universität Leipzig. 20 May 2008. Archived from the original on 20 December 2008. Retrieved 2 March 2010.
"Arbeitsmarkt: Arbeitslosigkeit 2011 meist unter drei Millionen" [Labour market: Unemployment in 2011 mostly below three million]. Focus online (in German). dpa. 27 October 2010. Archived from the original on 31 May 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
"Germany votes in close election". BBC. 18 September 2005. Archived from the original on 10 March 2006. Retrieved 3 May 2017.
"The Merkel plan". The Economist. 15 June 2013. Archived from the original on 23 March 2016. Retrieved 24 February 2016.
"Angela Merkel – Laureate International Four Freedoms Award 2016 – Laureates since 1982 – Four Freedoms Awards". 29 March 2019. Archived from the original on 29 March 2019.
The Study of international relations : the state of the art. Houndmills, Basingstoke, Hampshire: Macmillan, in association with Millennium, journal of international studies. 1989. p. 328. ISBN 978-1-349-20275-1. OCLC 647091179.
Müller, Volker (14 March 2018). "Deutscher Bundestag – Angela Merkel mit 364 Stimmen zur Bundeskanzlerin gewählt". Deutscher Bundestag (in German). Archived from the original on 12 July 2019. Retrieved 14 December 2018.
^ a b Emric, Eldar; Nellas, Demetri (14 November 2015). "Paris Attacks Provoke Fresh Migrant Fears in Europe". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 18 November 2015. Retrieved 14 November 2015.
^ "Tildelinger av ordener og medaljer". Kongehuset (in Norwegian). Archived from the original on 4 November 2013. Retrieved 6 October 2013.
In May 2017, Merkel was awarded the title of Doctrix Honoris Causa by the University of Helsinki.[241]
On 23 May 2013, she was awarded an honorary doctorate from the Radboud University Nijmegen.
"German coalition poised for power". BBC News. 11 November 2005. Archived from the original on 25 November 2005.
"Germany's Merkel rejects NSA-Stasi comparison". Associated Press. 10 July 2013. Archived from the original on 26 August 2013. Retrieved 28 December 2013.
Henley, Jon (28 May 2017). "Angela Merkel: EU cannot completely rely on US and Britain any more". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on 29 May 2017. Retrieved 29 May 2017.
Reeves, John P. "B'nai B'rith Europe grants Award of Merit to Dr. Angela Merkel". B'nai B'rith Europe. Archived from the original on 20 July 2011. ... Dr Angela Merkel Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany was the recipient of a Gold Medal for outstanding services, the B'nai B'rith Europe Award of Merit, being the highest accolade of BBEurope
^ "I Was a Squatter, Reveals German Chancellor Merkel". Deutsche Welle. 28 February 2008. Archived from the original on 8 March 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
The Financial Times commented: "Although Ms Merkel stopped short of suggesting that a ceiling on social spending might be one yardstick for measuring competitiveness, she hinted as much in the light of soaring social spending in the face of an ageing population.[161][b]
"Bundesregierung | Rede von Bundeskanzlerin Merkel beim Jahrestreffen 2013 des World Economic Forum" (in German). Bundesregierung.de. 24 January 2013. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 24 February 2016.
Knight, Ben (9 November 2016). "Merkel congratulates Trump as politicians express shock". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 9 November 2016. Retrieved 9 November 2016.
"Angela Merkel". Forbes. Archived from the original on 25 May 2019. Retrieved 5 December 2018.
Merkel's position towards the negative statements by Thilo Sarrazin with regard to the integration problems with Arab and Turkish people in Germany has been critical throughout. According to her personal statements, Sarrazin's approach is "totally unacceptable" and counterproductive to the ongoing problems of integration.[273]
"German Chancellor Angela Merkel to receive Johns Hopkins honorary degree"
U.S. Scientists: George Beadle / Charles Draper / John Enders / Donald A. Glaser / Joshua Lederberg / Willard Libby / Linus Pauling / Edward Purcell / Isidor Rabi / Emilio Segrè / William Shockley / Edward Teller / Charles Townes / James Van Allen / Robert Woodward
"Dalia Grybauskaite Photo Gallery". gettyimages.co.uk. Archived from the original on 8 August 2017. Retrieved 7 August 2017.
On 1 June 2022 Merkel made her first semi-public comments about political affairs since leaving office, at a retirement party for Reiner Hoffmann [de], the president of the German Trade Union Confederation (DGB). As an aside she said "I cannot make this speech without mentioning the blatant violation of international law by Russia. My solidarity is with Ukraine, which has been attacked and invaded by Russia," also applauding "the efforts of the Federal Republic of Germany, the European Union, and the United States to put an end to this barbaric war of aggression led by Russia... The current events remind us that peace and freedom can never be taken for granted. The great idea of Europe as a community based on values and the defense of peace."[190]
^ "Union dank Merkel im Umfrage-Aufwind". Stern (in German). 10 February 2012. Archived from the original on 12 February 2012. Retrieved 12 February 2012.
^ Harding, Luke (11 July 2005). "Merkel unveils tax-raising manifesto". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on 2 October 2017. Retrieved 7 May 2017.
Huggler, Justin (9 October 2015). "10 moments that define German chancellor Angela Merkel". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 22 May 2017. Retrieved 29 April 2017.
^ Traynor, Ian (17 December 2013). "Merkel compared NSA to Stasi in heated encounter with Obama". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 30 September 2013. Retrieved 2 May 2014.
Paraskos, Michael, In Search of Sixpence (London: Friction Press, 2016).
"Merkel 'stands by' past Ukraine NATO decision after Zelenskyy criticism". Deutsche Welle. 4 April 2022. Retrieved 5 April 2022.
^ Uhlmann, Stefan (14 August 2009). "Joachim Sauer, das Phantom an Merkels Seite". Die Zeit (in German). Archived from the original on 16 August 2009. Retrieved 11 June 2010.
Oltermann, Philip (10 July 2019). "Angela Merkel says she is in good health after third shaking bout". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 11 July 2019. Retrieved 11 July 2019.
"Merkel, Angela" Archived 7 April 2019 at the Wayback Machine (US) and "Merkel, Angela". Lexico UK English Dictionary. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 10 February 2020.
Stephan Hebel: Mutter Blamage – Warum die Nation Angela Merkel und ihre Politik nicht braucht. Westend, Frankfurt am Main 2013, ISBN 978-3-86489-021-5.
^ "Pragmatic governor Laschet elected to lead Merkel's party". Associated Press. 16 January 2021. Archived from the original on 25 January 2021. Retrieved 10 March 2021.
Austria:Grand Decoration of Honour in Gold with Sash of the Order of Honour for Services to the Republic of Austria[215]
"The many faces of Angela Merkel: 26 years of photographing the German chancellor"
^ Haltiwanger, John (29 October 2018). "German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the newly christened 'leader of the free world' is preparing to step back from politics – and experts say 'the coming storm is ... quite powerful'". Business Insider. Archived from the original on 30 December 2018. Retrieved 30 December 2018.
Emric, Eldar; Nellas, Demetri (14 November 2015). "Paris Attacks Provoke Fresh Migrant Fears in Europe". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 18 November 2015. Retrieved 14 November 2015.
^ "Germany migrants: Merkel averts coalition government split". BBC News. 3 July 2018. Archived from the original on 9 November 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
^ "Don't shun China, urges Merkel at American prize ceremony". Reuters. 21 January 2020. Archived from the original on 22 January 2020. Retrieved 13 August 2020.
^ "The new iron chancellor". The Economist. 26 November 2009. Archived from the original on 24 November 2011.
"Koalition: Merkel lädt ab Mittwoch kommender Woche zu Jamaika-Gesprächen". Der Spiegel. dpa. 9 October 2017. Archived from the original on 15 October 2017. Retrieved 28 October 2017.
"Dependence on Russian gas worries some – but not all – European countries"
The Apollo 8 Astronauts: William Anders / Frank Borman / Jim Lovell
"Angela Merkel a primit titlul de Doctor Honoris Causa al Universităţii Babeş-Bolyai"
"Harvard awards nine honorary degrees". 30 May 2019. Archived from the original on 30 May 2019. Retrieved 30 May 2019.
"Angela Merkel on Ukraine, Putin and her legacy". DW News. YouTube. 7 June 2022.
"Merkel compared NSA to Stasi in heated encounter with Obama"
^ Crawford, Alan; Czuczka, Tony (12 June 2013). Angela Merkel: A Chancellorship Forged in Crisis. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-1-118-64109-5.
^ The economist Arno Tausch from Corvinus University in Budapest, in a paper published by the Social Science Research Network in New York has contended that a re-analysis of the Merkel hypothesis about the distribution of global social expenditure based on 169 countries for which we have recent ILO Social Protection data and World Bank GNI data in real purchasing power reveals that the 27 EU countries with complete data spend only 33% of global world social protection expenditures, while the 13 non-EU-OECD members, among them the major other Western democracies, spend 40% of global social protection expenditures, the BRICS 18% and the Rest of the World 9% of global social protection expenditures. Most probably, the author claims, Merkel's 50% ratio is the product of a mere, simple projection of data for the OECD-member countries onto the world level.[162] Tausch also claims that the data reveal the successful social Keynesianism of the Anglo-Saxon overseas democracies, which are in stark contrast to the savings agenda in the framework of the European "fiscal pact", see .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Tausch, Arno (4 September 2015), Wo Frau Kanzlerin Angela Merkel Irrt: Der Sozialschutz in der Welt, der Anteil Europas und die Beurteilung Seiner Effizienz (Where Chancellor Angela Merkel Got it Wrong: Social Protection in the World, Europe's Share in it and the Assessment of its Efficiency), doi:10.2139/ssrn.2656113, SSRN 2656113
Saudi Arabia:Grand Officer of the Order of Abdulaziz al Saud
Holehouse, Matthew; Huggler, Justin; Vogt, Andrea (24 August 2015). "Germany drops EU rules to allow in Syrian refugees". The Telegraph. Archived from the original on 12 June 2017. Retrieved 16 June 2017.
^ a b "Clouds Over Merkel's Legacy as Russian Invasion Lays Flaws Bare". Voice of America. Agence France-Presse. 12 March 2022. Retrieved 5 April 2022.
^ a b Kornelius, Stefan (10 September 2013). "Six things you didn't know about Angela Merkel". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 10 September 2013. Retrieved 29 October 2013.
^ Hill, Jenny (30 July 2013). "Immigration fuels rising tension in Germany". BBC. Archived from the original on 19 August 2015. Retrieved 18 August 2015.
^ Boyes, Roger (25 July 2005). "Angela Merkel: Forged in the Old Communist East, Germany's Chancellor-in-Waiting Is Not like the Others". New Statesman. Archived from the original on 28 April 2017. Retrieved 28 April 2017.
Merkel expressed support for Israel's right to defend itself during the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict. She telephoned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on 9 July to condemn "without reservation rocket fire on Israel".[152]
Upon the election of Donald Trump, Merkel said that "Germany and America are tied by values of democracy, freedom and respect for the law and human dignity, independent of origin, skin colour, religion, gender, sexual orientation or political views. I offer the next president of the United States, Donald Trump, close cooperation on the basis of these values."[140] The comment was characterized by policy analyst Jennifer Rubin as manifesting the psychological principle of reintegrative shaming.[141]
^ "Germany's Angela Merkel declares 'yes, I am a feminist'". Deutsche Welle. 9 September 2021. Archived from the original on 8 September 2021. Retrieved 9 September 2021.
Philip Oltermann (5 April 2017). "The many faces of Angela Merkel: 26 years of photographing the German chancellor". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 20 November 2018. Retrieved 20 November 2018.
^ Langguth, Gerd (August 2005). Angela Merkel (in German). DTV. p. 50. ISBN 3-423-24485-2.
In January 2019, Merkel received the 2018 Fulbright Prize for International Understanding from the Fulbright Association[257]
"Angela Merkel's Years in East Germany Shaped Her Crisis Politics"
Ervasti, Anu-Elina (7 March 2017). "Angela Merkel vihitään Helsingin yliopiston kunniatohtoriksi". Helsingin Sanomat (in Finnish). Archived from the original on 10 April 2017. Retrieved 30 May 2017.
^ "German Chancellor Merkel to Receive Museum's 2017 Elie Wiesel Award". United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. 23 March 2017. Archived from the original on 25 April 2017. Retrieved 25 April 2017.
^ "Angela Merkel speaks to UK Parliament in English about EU". BBC News. 27 February 2014. Retrieved 9 December 2021.
"Cancelarul Germaniei, Angela Merkel, a primit titlul de Doctor Honoris Causa al UBB Cluj". România Liberă (in Romanian). Archived from the original on 15 October 2010. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
The migrant crisis spurred right-wing electoral preferences across Germany with the Alternative for Germany (AfD) gaining 12% of the vote in the 2017 German federal election. These developments prompted debates over the reasons for increased right-wing populism in Germany. Literature argued that the increased right-wing preferences are a result of the European migrant crisis which has brought thousands of people, predominantly from Muslim countries to Germany, and spurred a perception among a share of Germans that refugees constitute an ethnic and cultural threat to Germany.[118]
^ The Study of international relations : the state of the art. Houndmills, Basingstoke, Hampshire: Macmillan, in association with Millennium, journal of international studies. 1989. p. 328. ISBN 978-1-349-20275-1. OCLC 647091179.
^ Pidd, Helen (21 February 2011). "Angela Merkel's party crushed in Hamburg poll". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on 24 February 2011. Retrieved 23 August 2011.
"Koning Filip reikt Grootlint in de Leopoldsorde uit aan Angela Merkel"
^ "Germany's reluctance to speak out against China". Deutsche Welle. 7 July 2020. Archived from the original on 23 September 2020. Retrieved 23 September 2020.
"Angela Merkel sets off for China to forge new economic ties"
In October 2016, Merkel travelled to Mali and Niger. The diplomatic visit took place to discuss how their governments could improve conditions which caused people to flee those countries and how illegal migration through and from these countries could be reduced.[117]
^ She is known in German as Bundeskanzlerin. Bundeskanzlerin is a grammatically regular formation of a noun denoting a female chancellor, adding "-in" to the end of Bundeskanzler, though the word was not used officially before Merkel.
^ "Forsa-Umfrage: Mehrheit für erneute Kanzlerkandidatur Merkels" [Forsa Poll: Majority for renewed chancellor candidature of Merkel]. Westfälische Nachrichten (in German). dpa. Archived from the original on 18 May 2021. Retrieved 9 November 2016.
"Angela Merkel's coalition is in trouble. That means Europe is, too". The Economist. Archived from the original on 25 October 2018. Retrieved 25 October 2018.
"Pragmatic governor Laschet elected to lead Merkel's party". Associated Press. 16 January 2021. Archived from the original on 25 January 2021. Retrieved 10 March 2021.
Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People ranked Merkel as the world's second most powerful person in 2012, the highest ranking achieved by a woman since the list began in 2009; she was ranked fifth in 2013 and 2014
Moran, Lee (11 December 2016). "'SNL' Version of Angela Merkel Is Not Happy Donald Trump Is Time's 'Person of the Year'". HuffPost. Archived from the original on 2 February 2017. Retrieved 23 January 2017.
^ Buchholz, Christine (9 September 2010). "Merkel's affront to Muslims" (in German). Die linke. Archived from the original on 18 July 2011. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
^ Langguth, Gerd (August 2005). Angela Merkel (in German). Munich: DTV. p. 10. ISBN 3-423-24485-2.
"Angela Merkel: EU cannot completely rely on US and Britain any more"
^ "Gehört der Islam zu Deutschland? Kauder widerspricht Merkel" Archived 22 January 2015 at the Wayback Machine, Idea, 19 January 2015 (in German)
Oltermann, Philip; Connolly, Kate (14 March 2018). "Angela Merkel faces multiple challenges in her fourth term". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 14 March 2018. Retrieved 14 March 2018.
AFP. "Merkel: From austerity queen to 'leader of free world'". www.timesofisrael.com. Archived from the original on 1 October 2018. Retrieved 30 December 2018.
"Opposition meltdown: The great disintegration act". Der Spiegel. 22 October 2004. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 28 November 2015.
"Zwei Drittel für volle Amtszeit". n-tv. 11 March 2019. Archived from the original on 26 August 2019. Retrieved 7 August 2019.
^ Escritt, Thomas; Baczynska, Gabriela (22 September 2020). "Germany pushes for EU solidarity on migration – again". Reuters. Archived from the original on 3 February 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
"Angela Merkel im Fußballfieber". Focus (in German). 15 March 2013. Archived from the original on 21 May 2013. Retrieved 24 March 2013.
"Angela Merkel opens up on Ukraine, Putin and her legacy"
"Hillary Clinton appears to mock Donald Trump in her tribute to Angela Merkel". MSN.
On the eve of the election, Merkel was still favored to win a decisive victory based on opinion polls.[67] On 18 September 2005, Merkel's CDU/CSU and Schröder's SPD went head-to-head in the national elections, with the CDU/CSU winning 35.2% (CDU 27.8%/CSU 7.5%)[citation needed] of the second votes to the SPD's 34.2%.[67] The result was so close, both Schröder and Merkel claimed victory.[52][67] Neither the SPD-Green coalition nor the CDU/CSU and its preferred coalition partners, the Free Democratic Party, held enough seats to form a majority in the Bundestag.[67] A grand coalition between the CDU/CSU and SPD faced the challenge that both parties demanded the chancellorship.[67][68] However, after three weeks of negotiations, the two parties reached a deal whereby Merkel would become Chancellor and the SPD would hold 8 of the 16 seats in the cabinet.[68]
Her party was re-elected in 2009 with an increased number of seats, and could form a governing coalition with the FDP. This term was overshadowed by the European debt crisis. Conscription in Germany was abolished and the Bundeswehr became a volunteer military. Unemployment sank below the mark of 3 million unemployed people.[74]
^ a b Crawford, Alan; Czuczka, Tony (20 September 2013). "Angela Merkel's Years in East Germany Shaped Her Crisis Politics". Bloomberg L.P. Archived from the original on 9 July 2017. Retrieved 29 April 2017.
^ Welle (www.dw.com), Deutsche. "Germany's SPD, FDP and Greens unveil governing coalition deal | DW | 24.11.2021". DW.COM. Archived from the original on 25 November 2021. Retrieved 25 November 2021.
In July 2014 Merkel said trust between Germany and the United States could only be restored by talks between the two, and she would seek to have talks. She reiterated that the US remained Germany's most important ally.[281]
"German parties back new coalition". BBC News. 14 November 2005. Archived from the original on 11 January 2009.
^ "Executive Order 11085". Wikisource. Archived from the original on 30 September 2011. Retrieved 1 April 2011. The Medal may be awarded by the President as provided in this order to any person who has made an especially meritorious contribution to (1), the security or national interests of the United States, or (2) world peace, or (3) cultural or other significant public or private endeavors.
^ a b "Angela Merkel to step down in 2021". BBC News. 29 October 2018. Archived from the original on 29 October 2018. Retrieved 29 October 2018.
Angela Dorothea Merkel(German: [ˈaŋɡela doʁoˈteːa ˈmɛʁkl̩] (listen);[a] née Kasner; born 17 July 1954) is a German former politician and scientist who served as Chancellor of Germany from 2005 to 2021. A member of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), she previously served as Leader of the Opposition from 2002 to 2005 and as Leader of the Christian Democratic Union from 2000 to 2018.[9] Merkel was the first female chancellor of Germany.[10] During her tenure as Chancellor, Merkel was frequently referred to as the de facto leader of the European Union (EU), the most powerful woman in the world, and since 2016 the leader of the free world.[11][12][13][14][15]
"Union dank Merkel im Umfrage-Aufwind". Stern (in German). 10 February 2012. Archived from the original on 12 February 2012. Retrieved 12 February 2012.
"Merkel hints at return to academia after politics". Reuters. 31 August 2019. Archived from the original on 1 September 2019. Retrieved 1 September 2019.
Kornelius, Stefan (10 September 2013). "Six things you didn't know about Angela Merkel". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 10 September 2013. Retrieved 29 October 2013.
^ a b "Hillary Clinton appears to mock Donald Trump in her tribute to Angela Merkel". MSN.
"Germany's Angela Merkel slams planned U.S. sanctions on Russia Archived 27 June 2019 at the Wayback Machine". Deutsche Welle. 16 June 2017.
"Putin: I didn't mean to scare Angela Merkel with dog"
"German Chancellor Merkel Defends Work of Intelligence Agencies". Der Spiegel. 10 July 2013. Archived from the original on 2 May 2014. Retrieved 1 February 2014.
The Peacemakers: Yasser Arafat / F. W. de Klerk / Nelson Mandela / Yitzhak Rabin(1993)
^ Paun, Carmen (7 October 2017). "Angela Merkel Ready to Move Forward with Jamaica Coalition". Politico. Archived from the original on 7 October 2017. Retrieved 9 October 2017.
^ Shamah, David (6 July 2014). "Hamas rockets reach the north, Abbas charges Israel with genocide". The Times of Israel. Archived from the original on 7 June 2020. Retrieved 7 June 2020.
^ Connolly, Kate; Oltermann, Philip (23 September 2013). "German election: Angela Merkel secures historic third win". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on 27 March 2017. Retrieved 26 March 2017.
^ Government continues as acting government Archived 15 November 2017 at the Wayback Machine, bundeskanzlerin.de, 24 October 2017
The Good Samaritans: Bono / Bill Gates / Melinda Gates
Mushaben, Joyce Marie. "The Best of Times, the Worst of Times: Angela Merkel, the Grand Coalition, and 'Majority Rule' in Germany." German Politics and Society 34.1 (2016): 1-25.
The First Merkel cabinet was sworn in at 16:00 CET on 22 November 2005. On 31 October 2005, after the defeat of his favoured candidate for the position of Secretary General of the SPD, Franz Müntefering indicated that he would resign as party chairman, which he did in November. Ostensibly responding to this, Edmund Stoiber (CSU), who was originally nominated as Minister for Economics and Technology, announced his withdrawal on 1 November 2005. While this was initially seen as a blow to Merkel's attempt at forming a viable coalition, the manner in which Stoiber withdrew earned him much ridicule and severely undermined his position as a Merkel rival. Separate conferences of the CDU, CSU, and SPD approved the proposed Cabinet on 14 November 2005. The second Cabinet of Angela Merkel was sworn in on 28 October 2009.[69]
^ Moulson, Geir (27 November 2013). "Angela Merkel reaches deal with SPD to form German-Grand-Coalition". The Independent. AP. Archived from the original on 23 December 2017. Retrieved 23 December 2017.
^ BBC: Germany's Central Muslim Council (Zentralrat der Muslime in Deutschland) criticised Mrs. Merkel for attending the award ceremony. 8 September 2010. A ZMD spokesman, Aiman Mazyek, told public broadcaster Deutschlandradio that the Chancellor was honouring someone "who in our eyes kicked our prophet, and therefore kicked all Muslims". He said giving Mr Westergaard the prize in a "highly charged and heated time" was "highly problematic".
"Bundesregierung | Rede von Bundeskanzlerin Merkel beim Jahrestreffen 2013 des World Economic Forum"
"Universitatea Babes-Bolyai". Web.ubbcluj.ro. Archived from the original on 2 September 2011. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
A YouGov survey published in late December 2017 found that just 36 percent of all respondents wanted Merkel to stay at the helm until 2021, while half of those surveyed voters called for a change at the top before the end of the legislature.[91]
^ Ward, Lucy (25 September 2014). "Polyglots and insults: how our European leaders use language". The Guardian. Retrieved 9 December 2021.
"Merkel wirbt für gute Finanzausstattung der Kommunen". Focus Online (in German). dpa. 6 January 2010. Archived from the original on 9 January 2017. Retrieved 29 April 2017.
"Merkel hat polnische Wurzeln" [Merkel has Polish roots]. Süddeutsche Zeitung. 13 March 2013. Archived from the original on 6 September 2013.
"As Obama Exits World Stage, Angela Merkel May Be the Liberal West's Last Defender"
^ "German coalition poised for power". BBC News. 11 November 2005. Archived from the original on 25 November 2005.
Estonia:Member 1st Class of the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana (23 February 2021)
"German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the newly christened 'leader of the free world' is preparing to step back from politics – and experts say 'the coming storm is ... quite powerful'"
Online, FOCUS. "Eines Tages zog sie aus". FOCUS Online. Archived from the original on 8 May 2019. Retrieved 8 May 2019.
"Sprachkritik: "Alternativlos" ist das Unwort des Jahres". Der Spiegel (in German). 18 January 2011. Archived from the original on 22 September 2013. Retrieved 2 July 2013.
Peel, Quentin (16 December 2012). "Merkel warns on cost of welfare". Financial Times. Archived from the original on 24 March 2016. Retrieved 24 February 2016.
Germany's 1–0 victory against Argentina in the 2014 World Cup Final
In November 1991, Merkel, with the support of the federal CDU, ran for the leadership of the neighboring CDU in Brandenburg. She lost to Ulf Finke; this has been the only election to date Merkel has lost.
"The Secret to Germany's COVID-19 Success: Angela Merkel Is a Scientist"
During the financial crisis of 2007–2008, the German government stepped in to assist the mortgage company Hypo Real Estate with a bailout, which was agreed on 6 October, with German banks to contribute €30 billion and the Bundesbank €20 billion to a credit line.[154]
^ Ehni, Ellen (6 October 2016). "ARD-DeutschlandTrend: Merkel überwindet ihr Tief" [ARD-DeutschlandTrend: Merkel overcomes her low point.] (in German). ARD-tagesschau. Archived from the original on 13 April 2019. Retrieved 9 November 2016.
"Germany's future interior minister Horst Seehofer vows to increase deportations". Deusche Welle. 11 March 2018. Archived from the original on 16 March 2018. Retrieved 16 March 2018.
8Honours and awards											Toggle Honours and awards subsection																					8.1Honours																								8.1.1National honours																											8.1.2Foreign honours																														8.2Honorary degrees																											8.3Awards
^ Oltermann, Philip (4 March 2018). "Merkel secures fourth term in power after SPD backs coalition deal". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on 15 December 2018. Retrieved 14 December 2018.
^ a b c d e "German election ends in stalemate". BBC. 19 September 2005. Archived from the original on 18 March 2017. Retrieved 5 May 2017.
^ Jackson, Patrick (8 June 2022). "Ukraine war: Angela Merkel defends her record on Putin". BBC.
"World prefers Angela Merkel to Donald Trump: Pew study". Deutsche Welle. 2 October 2018. Archived from the original on 27 May 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
"Clouds Over Merkel's Legacy as Russian Invasion Lays Flaws Bare". Voice of America. Agence France-Presse. 12 March 2022. Retrieved 5 April 2022.
^ Oltermann, Philip (10 July 2019). "Angela Merkel says she is in good health after third shaking bout". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 11 July 2019. Retrieved 11 July 2019.
^ "Merkel coalition crisis: Seehofer offers to quit over migration". www.aljazeera.com. Archived from the original on 30 November 2021. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
Ebola Fighters: Dr. Jerry Brown / Dr. Kent Brantly /Ella Watson-Stryker / Foday Gollah / Salome Karwah (2014)
Strange, Hannah (20 June 2013). "Angela Merkel refers to internet as 'virgin territory'". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 6 December 2013. Retrieved 25 October 2013.
"Award for Danish Muhammad Cartoonist: Merkel Defends Press Freedom, Condemns Koran-Burning". Der Spiegel. Archived from the original on 16 September 2011. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
"Hamas rockets reach the north, Abbas charges Israel with genocide"
"Scopus – Author search results". scopus.com. Retrieved 9 December 2020.
"Merkel secures fourth term in power after SPD backs coalition deal"
^ "Impressions – Angela Merkel". SNL Archives. Archived from the original on 21 January 2016. Retrieved 23 January 2017.
The Peacemakers: Yasser Arafat / F. W. de Klerk / Nelson Mandela / Yitzhak Rabin
Delcker, Janosch (23 September 2015). "Viktor Orbán, Bavaria's hardline hero". Politico. Archived from the original on 19 January 2018. Retrieved 10 January 2016.
Walsh, Alistair; Goldenberg, Rina (7 June 2022). "Angela Merkel opens up on Ukraine, Putin and her legacy". Deutsche Welle.
"The psychological tricks Angela Merkel used to congratulate Donald Trump say a lot about their countries' future relations"
Connolly, Kate; Oltermann, Philip (23 September 2013). "German election: Angela Merkel secures historic third win". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on 27 March 2017. Retrieved 26 March 2017.
"Indian media: Indira Gandhi Peace Prize to Merkel". BBC News. 20 November 2013. Archived from the original on 20 September 2020. Retrieved 24 March 2021.
"Merkel: Nuclear phase-out is wrong". World Nuclear News. 10 June 2008. Archived from the original on 16 June 2011. Retrieved 27 August 2011.
Miller, Saskia (20 April 2020). "The Secret to Germany's COVID-19 Success: Angela Merkel Is a Scientist". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 2 May 2020. Retrieved 21 April 2020.
"Four Freedoms Award". Archived from the original on 6 June 2022. Retrieved 31 May 2022.
^ "Bundesverdienstkreuz für Merkel". Tagesschau (in German). Archived from the original on 21 September 2010. Retrieved 21 September 2010.
^ "Koalition: Merkel lädt ab Mittwoch kommender Woche zu Jamaika-Gesprächen". Der Spiegel. dpa. 9 October 2017. Archived from the original on 15 October 2017. Retrieved 28 October 2017.
^ Thomas, Andrea; Marson, James (2 July 2018). "Germany's Merkel Secures Deal on Migrants, Averts Government Collapse". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on 18 September 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
^ a b "The leader of the free world meets Donald Trump". POLITICO. 17 March 2017. Retrieved 10 February 2022.
"Forsa-Umfrage: Mehrheit für erneute Kanzlerkandidatur Merkels" [Forsa Poll: Majority for renewed chancellor candidature of Merkel]. Westfälische Nachrichten (in German). dpa. Archived from the original on 18 May 2021. Retrieved 9 November 2016.
Risen, Clay (5 July 2005). "Is Angela Merkel the next Maggie Thatcher?". Slate. Archived from the original on 28 April 2009.
^ "Refugee crisis: Many migrants falsely claim to be Syrians, Germany says as EU tries to ease tensions Archived 8 November 2020 at the Wayback Machine". The Daily Telegraph. 25 September 2015.
Wells, J. C. (2008). Longman Pronunciation Dictionary. Pearson Education Limited.
^ "Angela Merkel: Her bio in brief". The Christian Science Monitor. 20 September 2013. Archived from the original on 29 November 2018. Retrieved 29 November 2018.
Pidd, Helen (21 February 2011). "Angela Merkel's party crushed in Hamburg poll". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on 24 February 2011. Retrieved 23 August 2011.
Schramm, Julia. Fifty Shades of Merkel. (Hoffmann & Campe, 2016), ISBN 978-3-455-50410-1
The Whistleblowers: Cynthia Cooper / Coleen Rowley / Sherron Watkins
^ Langguth, Gerd (2005). Angela Merkel (in German). Munich: dtv. p. 50. ISBN 3-423-24485-2. Merkel wollte immer mit der Betonung auf dem 'e' Angela genannt werden. (Merkel always wanted her first name pronounced with the stress on the 'e'.)
Ward, Lucy (25 September 2014). "Polyglots and insults: how our European leaders use language". The Guardian. Retrieved 9 December 2021.
"True total hottie Frau": Die bislang beste Merkel – Parodie kommt von der BBC Archived 19 December 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Buzzer, 21 January 2016.
Government continues as acting government Archived 15 November 2017 at the Wayback Machine, bundeskanzlerin.de, 24 October 2017
^ "Angela Merkel shaking: I'm well, she says, despite third incident". BBC News. 10 July 2019. Archived from the original on 10 July 2019. Retrieved 11 July 2019.
Order of Honour for Services to the Republic of Austria
If Mrs Merkel's vision is pragmatic, so too is her plan for implementing it. It can be boiled down to three statistics, a few charts and some facts on an A4* sheet of paper. The three figures are 7%, 25% and 50%. Mrs Merkel never tires of saying that Europe has 7% of the world's population, 25% of its GDP and 50% of its social spending. If the region is to prosper in competition with emerging countries, it cannot continue to be so generous.[160] ... She produces graphs of unit labour costs ... at EU meetings in much the same way that the late Margaret Thatcher used to pull passages from Friedrich Hayek's Road to Serfdom from her handbag.[160]
^ Casier, Marlies; Jongerden, Joost, eds. (2010). Nationalisms and Politics in Turkey. p. 110. doi:10.4324/9780203847060. ISBN 978-1-136-93867-2.
^ Whitlock, Craig (6 October 2008). "Germany to guarantee Private Bank Accounts". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on 10 January 2014. Retrieved 6 October 2008.
"Life in Communist East Germany was 'almost comfortable' at times, Merkel says". Reuters. 8 November 2019. Archived from the original on 11 November 2019. Retrieved 14 November 2019.
^ "Das diskrete Gluck". Bild (in German). 28 December 2008. Archived from the original on 27 February 2014. Retrieved 11 June 2010.
^ "Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer elected to succeed Merkel as CDU leader". Politico. 7 December 2018. Archived from the original on 10 January 2021. Retrieved 18 July 2019.
^ "Angela Merkel – 50 People Who Matter 2010". Archived from the original on 2 October 2010. Retrieved 29 September 2010.
^ "Climate Policy Meets Cold Reality in Europe". The Wall Street Journal. 27 September 2021. Archived from the original on 22 October 2021. Retrieved 22 October 2021.
"More than 20 ambassadors condemn China's treatment of Uighurs in Xinjiang"
Karnitschnig, Matthew (5 May 2022). "12 Germans who got played by Putin". Politico. Retrieved 27 May 2022.
Ali, Yashar (24 September 2017). "Clinton Says Angela Merkel Is The Most Important Leader in the Free World". HuffPost. Archived from the original on 10 April 2018. Retrieved 9 April 2018.
Czuczka, Tony and Alan Crawford. Angela Merkel: A Chancellorship Forged in Crisis (2013) excerpt
^ "Merkel defends German reform plan". BBC News. 12 November 2005. Archived from the original on 15 March 2006.
"Honorary Doctorates". The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Archived from the original on 16 October 2008. Retrieved 3 June 2008.
Boyes, Roger (25 July 2005). "Angela Merkel: Forged in the Old Communist East, Germany's Chancellor-in-Waiting Is Not like the Others". New Statesman. Archived from the original on 28 April 2017. Retrieved 28 April 2017.
Wacket, Andreas Rinke, Markus (6 April 2020). "Coronavirus pandemic is historical test for EU, Merkel says". Reuters. Archived from the original on 15 December 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
^ "More than 20 ambassadors condemn China's treatment of Uighurs in Xinjiang". The Guardian. 11 July 2019. Archived from the original on 14 July 2019. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
"Germans welcome thousands of newly arrived refugees". Deutsche Welle. 6 September 2015. Archived from the original on 8 September 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
^ Connor, Richard (8 September 2010). "Merkel defends 'Muhammad' cartoonist, condemns Koran-burning". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 7 April 2015. Retrieved 2 May 2014.
3.6Leader of the Opposition, 2002–2005																								3.6.1Some successes																											3.6.22005 national election
^ Prantl, Heribert (24 September 2013). "Alternative dank Merkel". Süddeutsche Zeitung. Archived from the original on 29 September 2013. Retrieved 2 May 2014.
Delhaes, Daniel (28 December 2017). "Waning support puts Merkel's future in doubt". Handelsblatt Global. Archived from the original on 30 November 2021. Retrieved 29 December 2017.
^ "China Is Merkel's Biggest Failure in Office". Foreign Policy. 15 September 2020. Archived from the original on 26 September 2020. Retrieved 23 September 2020.
Grand Crosses 1st class of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
The medal is presented to people who have made an especially meritorious contribution to the security or national interests of the United States, world peace, or cultural or other significant public or private endeavors
Merkel and the CDU lost ground after Kirchhof proposed the introduction of a flat tax in Germany, again undermining the party's broad appeal on economic affairs and convincing many voters that the CDU's platform of deregulation[citation needed] was designed to benefit only the rich.[64] This was compounded by Merkel's proposal to increase VAT[65] to reduce Germany's deficit and fill the gap in revenue from a flat tax. The SPD were able to increase their support simply by pledging not to introduce flat taxes or increase VAT.[citation needed] Although Merkel's standing recovered after she distanced herself from Kirchhof's proposals, she remained considerably less popular than Schröder,[citation needed] and the CDU's lead was down to 9% on the eve of the election.[66]
On 6 April 2020, Merkel stated: "In my view... the European Union is facing the biggest test since its foundation and member states must show greater solidarity so that the bloc can emerge stronger from the economic crisis unleashed by the pandemic".[128] Merkel has won international plaudits for her handling of the pandemic in Germany.[129][16]
^ "Merkel meets with the Dalai Lama". Euronews. Archived from the original on 12 January 2009. Retrieved 2 March 2010.
"Merkel says her conservatives face hard battle after 16 years in power"
^ "5 Things to Know About Germany's Angela Merkel". The New York Times. Associated Press. 2017.
^ Philip Oltermann (27 June 2019). "Angela Merkel seen shaking for second time in just over a week". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 27 June 2019. Retrieved 27 June 2019.
The Good Samaritans: Bono / Bill Gates / Melinda Gates(2005)
"Hillary Clinton appears to mock Donald Trump in her tribute to Angela Merkel"
^ "Anna Katarina – IMDb". IMDb. Archived from the original on 3 June 2019. Retrieved 14 February 2019.
Portugal:Collar of the Order of Infante Henry (9 December 2021)
^ Reeves, John P. "B'nai B'rith Europe grants Award of Merit to Dr. Angela Merkel". B'nai B'rith Europe. Archived from the original on 20 July 2011. ... Dr Angela Merkel Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany was the recipient of a Gold Medal for outstanding services, the B'nai B'rith Europe Award of Merit, being the highest accolade of BBEurope
Torsten Krauel, Chefkommentator (12 March 2019). "Kanzlerin Kramp-Karrenbauer? Eine Gespensterdebatte". Die Welt. Axel Springer SE (WELT und N24Doku), Berlin. Archived from the original on 10 April 2019. Retrieved 5 April 2019.
^ Dougherty, Carter (5 October 2008). "Germany guarantees all private bank accounts". Forbes. Archived from the original on 23 April 2014. Retrieved 6 October 2008.
^ "Olaf Scholz elected as Germany's new Chancellor, replacing Angela Merkel". ABC News. 8 December 2021. Retrieved 8 December 2021.
Vasagar, Jeevan (1 September 2013). "Angela Merkel, the girl who never wanted to stand out, to win big again". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 19 April 2017. Retrieved 19 April 2017.
At school Merkel learned to speak Russian fluently, and was awarded prizes for her proficiency in Russian and mathematics. She was the best in her class in mathematics and Russian, and completed her school education with the best possible average Abitur grade 1.0.[40]
"Angela Merkel – Laureate International Four Freedoms Award 2016 – Laureates since 1982 – Four Freedoms Awards"
^ "Cancelarul Germaniei, Angela Merkel, a primit titlul de Doctor Honoris Causa al UBB Cluj". România Liberă (in Romanian). Archived from the original on 15 October 2010. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
In November 2013, she was awarded the Honorary Doctorate (Honoris Causa) title by the University of Szeged.
^ "Image of people putting sash on Angela Merkel". Archived from the original on 7 August 2017.[unreliable source?]
Baeck, Leo (22 August 2010). "LBI Presents Leo Baeck Medal to Chancellor Angela Merkel". New York: Leo Baeck Institute. Archived from the original on 18 July 2011. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
^ "Migrant crisis: Germany 'can take 500,000 asylum seekers a year' Archived 20 October 2020 at the Wayback Machine". BBC News. 8 September 2015.
In May 2016, Merkel received the International Four Freedoms Award from the Roosevelt Foundation in Middelburg, the Netherlands.[255]
^ "Image of Angela Merkel". Archived from the original on 8 August 2017.[unreliable source?]
^ Moran, Lee (11 December 2016). "'SNL' Version of Angela Merkel Is Not Happy Donald Trump Is Time's 'Person of the Year'". HuffPost. Archived from the original on 2 February 2017. Retrieved 23 January 2017.
^ The English pronunciation of her first name could be /ˈɑːŋɡələ, ˈæŋ-/ (of which the former is a closer approximation of the German). The English pronunciation of her last name is either /ˈmɛərkəl/ or /ˈmɜːrkəl/ (pronunciation respelling MAIR-kəl, MUR-kəl), of which only the former is reported for American English (and is a closer approximation of the German) and only the latter is reported for British English by the Oxford and Merriam-Webster dictionaries, which base their editing on actual usage, not recommendations.[2][3][4] In German, her last name is pronounced [ˈmɛʁkl̩],[5][6] and her first name is pronounced [ˈaŋɡela] or [aŋˈɡeːla],[7] but according to her biographer Langguth, Merkel prefers the pronunciation with stress on the second syllable[8] ([aŋˈɡeːla] with a long /eː/).
Welle (dw.com), Deutsche. "Merkel reveals politically explosive favorite film | DW | 15 May 2013". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 15 December 2018. Retrieved 14 December 2018.
^ "Sensible talks urged by Merkel to restore trust with US". Germany News.Net. Archived from the original on 28 July 2014. Retrieved 18 July 2014.
In 2006, Merkel was awarded the Vision for Europe Award for her contribution toward greater European integration.
^ "Klitschko, Merkel discuss prospects for signing EU-Ukraine association agreement". Kyiv Post. Interfax-Ukraine. 5 December 2012. Archived from the original on 5 December 2012.
In 1994, she was promoted to the position of Minister for the Environment and Nuclear Safety, which gave her greater political visibility and a platform on which to build her personal political career. As one of Kohl's protégées and his youngest Cabinet Minister, she was frequently referred to by Kohl as mein Mädchen ("my girl").[53]
"Angela Merkel speaks to UK Parliament in English about EU"
On 16 June 2010, the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies at Johns Hopkins University in Washington D.C. awarded Merkel its Global Leadership Award (AICGS) in recognition of her outstanding dedication to strengthening German-American relations.[250]
^ "Germany's Merkel rejects NSA-Stasi comparison". Associated Press. 10 July 2013. Archived from the original on 26 August 2013. Retrieved 28 December 2013.
"Merkel fordert längere Arbeitszeit". Der Spiegel (in German). 18 May 2003. Archived from the original on 13 June 2008. Retrieved 27 August 2011.
^ a b Smale, Alison; Erlanger, Steven (28 May 2017). "Merkel, After Discordant G-7 Meeting, Is Looking Past Trump". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 1 June 2017. Retrieved 29 May 2017.
^ "Profile Angela Merkel". Forbes. 18 April 2012. Archived from the original on 25 May 2019. Retrieved 11 September 2012.
"Refugee crisis: Many migrants falsely claim to be Syrians, Germany says as EU tries to ease tensions Archived 8 November 2020 at the Wayback Machine". The Daily Telegraph. 25 September 2015.
"Merkel reveals politically explosive favorite film | DW | 15 May 2013"
Merkel has been criticised for being personally present and involved at the M100 Media Award handover[265] to Danish cartoonist Kurt Westergaard, who had triggered the Muhammad cartoons controversy. This happened at a time of fierce emotional debate in Germany over a book by the former Deutsche Bundesbank executive and finance senator of Berlin Thilo Sarrazin, which was critical of the Muslim immigration.[266] At the same time she condemned a planned burning of Qurans by a fundamental pastor in Florida.[267] The Central Council of Muslims in Germany[268][269] and the Left Party[270] (Die Linke) as well as the German Green Party[d][271] criticised the action by the centre-right chancellor. The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper wrote: "This will probably be the most explosive moment of her chancellorship so far."[272] Others have praised Merkel and called it a brave and bold move for the cause of freedom of speech.
^ Wagele, Elizabeth (16 July 2012). "What Personality Type is Angela Merkel?". Psychology Today. Retrieved 23 September 2013.
^ Oltermann, Philip (16 April 2020). "Angela Merkel draws on science background in Covid-19 explainer: German chancellor excels in describing epidemiological basis of lockdown exit strategy". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 21 April 2020. Retrieved 21 April 2020.
^ "Merkel splits conservative bloc with green light to refugees". Reuters. 6 September 2015. Archived from the original on 9 October 2015. Retrieved 6 July 2021.
Reitler, Torsten (27 March 2009). "Drogenwahn auf der Dauerbaustelle". Der Spiegel (in German). Archived from the original on 13 January 2010. Retrieved 19 August 2011.
Refugee crisis: Many migrants falsely claim to be Syrians, Germany says as EU tries to ease tensions
^ a b "Merkel named as German chancellor". BBC News. 10 October 2005. Archived from the original on 23 September 2013. Retrieved 27 August 2011.
^ "Germany votes in close election". BBC. 18 September 2005. Archived from the original on 10 March 2006. Retrieved 3 May 2017.
^ "Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer: Favourite to replace Merkel stands down". BBC News. 10 February 2020. Archived from the original on 11 February 2020. Retrieved 17 March 2020.
In October 2018, Merkel announced that she had decided not to run for re-election in the 2021 federal election. In August 2019, 67% of Germans wanted Merkel to stay until the end of her term in 2021, while only 29% wanted her to step down earlier.[95]
^ Reitler, Torsten (27 March 2009). "Drogenwahn auf der Dauerbaustelle". Der Spiegel (in German). Archived from the original on 13 January 2010. Retrieved 19 August 2011.
^ Kauffmann, Audrey (17 October 2010). "Merkel Says German Multi-Cultural Society Has Failed". Yahoo! News. Archived from the original on 18 October 2010. Retrieved 18 December 2013.
"Trump praises Xi soon after death of Chinese dissident". CNBC. 13 July 2017. Archived from the original on 25 September 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
Qvortrup, Matthew (2016). "In the Shadow of the Berlin Wall". Angela Merkel: Europe's Most Influential Leader. The Overlook Press. ISBN 978-1-4683-1408-3.
"Bericht der Vorsitzenden der CDU Deutschlands Bundeskanzlerin Dr. Angela Merkel MdB"
On 31 May 2011, she received the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for the year 2009 from the Indian government. She received the award for International understanding.[252]
Latham, Mark (5 January 2008). "Angela Merkel awarded the Charlemagne Prize". Aachen. Archived from the original on 6 May 2008. Retrieved 22 April 2014.
"Hunderte Millionen gegen die Flucht". Der Spiegel. 10 October 2016. Archived from the original on 12 October 2016. Retrieved 13 October 2016.
"Germany's never-ending coalition talks break record". Deutsche Welle. 20 December 2017. Archived from the original on 15 December 2018. Retrieved 14 December 2018.
"Angela Merkel 'world's most powerful woman'". The Daily Telegraph. London. 24 August 2011. Archived from the original on 15 June 2018. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
Moldova:Member of the Order of the Republic (12 November 2015)[225]
"Doktorat honoris causa dla Merkel". RP (in Polish). 24 September 2008. Archived from the original on 13 May 2012. Retrieved 2 March 2010.
Note: The candidate became chancellor in the marked election years.
Prantl, Heribert (24 September 2013). "Alternative dank Merkel". Süddeutsche Zeitung. Archived from the original on 29 September 2013. Retrieved 2 May 2014.
^ "German opposition hits 11-year high in polls". France 24. 5 August 2011. Archived from the original on 11 October 2011. Retrieved 23 August 2011.
^ Smagge, Patricia (2016). "Angela Merkel: The Unexpected – Angela Merkel – Die Unerwartete (2016) (In Dutch)". cinemagazine.nl. Archived from the original on 20 September 2017. Retrieved 20 September 2017.
^ "Ehrung des Mohammed-Karikaturisten: Angela Merkels Risiko". Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (in German). 8 September 2010. Archived from the original on 8 September 2010. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
^ "Lithuanian president bestows state award upon German chancellor". Delfi (web portal). Archived from the original on 8 August 2017. Retrieved 7 August 2017.
Schnee, Christian. "Sticking to her guns or going with the flow: assessing rigidity and flexibility in Angela Merkel's political decision making." German Politics and Society 37.1 (2019): 24–46.
^ "Russell among 15 Presidential Medal of Freedom honorees". National Basketball Association. 18 November 2010. Archived from the original on 20 November 2010. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
Plickert, Philip (Editor) (2017) Merkel. Eine kritische Bilanz, FinanzBuch Verlag, ISBN 978-3-95972-065-6.
^ Paraskos, Michael, In Search of Sixpence (London: Friction Press, 2016).
^ Vasagar, Jeevan (1 September 2013). "Angela Merkel, the girl who never wanted to stand out, to win big again". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 19 April 2017. Retrieved 19 April 2017.
"Cancelarul Germaniei, Angela Merkel, a primit titlul de Doctor Honoris Causa al UBB Cluj"
On 4 October 2008, following the Irish Government's decision to guarantee all deposits in private savings accounts, a move she strongly criticised,[155] Merkel said there were no plans for the German Government to do the same. The following day, Merkel stated that the government would guarantee private savings account deposits, after all.[156] However, two days later, on 6 October 2008, it emerged that the pledge was simply a political move that would not be backed by legislation.[157] Other European governments eventually either raised the limits or promised to guarantee savings in full.[157]
In June 2018, Merkel said that there had been "no moral or political justification" for the post-war expulsion of ethnic Germans from Central and Eastern European countries.[153]
Staudenmaier, Rebecca (15 June 2017). "Germany's nuclear phase-out explained". DW. Archived from the original on 24 August 2020. Retrieved 27 July 2019.
^ Spencer, Nick (6 January 2016). "Angela Merkel: How Germany's Iron Chancellor is shaped by her Christianity | Christian News on Christian Today". Christiantoday.com. Archived from the original on 31 March 2017. Retrieved 5 April 2017. "Video Podcast of the German Chancellor #37/2012" (PDF) (in German). 3 November 2012. Archived (PDF) from the original on 11 May 2017. Retrieved 6 April 2017. Ich bin Mitglied der evangelischen Kirche. Ich glaube an Gott, und die Religion ist auch mein ständiger Begleiter – eigentlich in meinem ganzen Leben – gewesen.
^ "Merkel Dott.ssa Angela". Quirinale (in Italian). Archived from the original on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 13 August 2016.
"German Chancellor Angela Merkel to receive Johns Hopkins honorary degree". The Hub. 14 July 2021. Archived from the original on 15 July 2021. Retrieved 15 July 2021.
^ Strange, Hannah (20 June 2013). "Angela Merkel refers to internet as 'virgin territory'". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 6 December 2013. Retrieved 25 October 2013.
^ "Merkel honours Danish Muhammad cartoonist Westergaard". BBC News. 8 September 2010. Archived from the original on 8 September 2010.
On the British sketch-comedy Tracey Ullman's Show, comedian Tracey Ullman has parodied Merkel to international acclaim with German media dubbing her impersonation as the best spoof of Merkel in the world.[307]
"Bundestag wählt Angela Merkel zum vierten Mal zur Bundeskanzlerin". Neue Zürcher Zeitung. dpa. 14 March 2018. Archived from the original on 3 June 2019. Retrieved 5 April 2019.
^ Smale, Alison; Erlanger, Steven (12 November 2016). "As Obama Exits World Stage, Angela Merkel May Be the Liberal West's Last Defender". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 27 May 2019. Retrieved 24 February 2017.
"TIME Person of the Year 2015: Angela Merkel". Time. Archived from the original on 29 May 2019. Retrieved 24 February 2016.
Marton, Kati (19 May 2019). "The Merkel Model". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 20 May 2019. Retrieved 21 May 2019.
Thomas, Andrea; Marson, James (2 July 2018). "Germany's Merkel Secures Deal on Migrants, Averts Government Collapse". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on 18 September 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
In September 2021, she referred to her party after she leaves the chancellery, and said that "after 16 years one does not automatically ... return to the chancellery, that was clear to everyone in the CDU and CSU", describing the close opinion polls about the upcoming election. The remarks came as the Social Democrats had overtaken her conservatives in recent polls.[96]
^ "Picturing the Family: Media, Narrative, Memory | Research". Archived from the original on 1 May 2017. Retrieved 11 February 2017.
"Decades of yearly portraits show how power has transformed Angela Merkel"
Clark, Claudia. Dear Barack: The Extraordinary Partnership of Barack Obama and Angela Merkel (2021)
^ Frickel, Claudia (20 June 2013). "Merkel beim Besuch von Obama: Das Netz lacht über Merkels "Internet-Neuland"". Der Focus (Online Version) (in German). Archived from the original on 30 September 2013. Retrieved 25 October 2013.
Faas, Thorsten. "The German federal election of 2013: Merkel's triumph, the disappearance of the liberal party, and yet another grand coalition." West European Politics 38.1 (2015): 238–247.
Merkel enjoyed good relations with US presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.[136] Obama described her in 2016 as his "closest international partner" throughout his tenure as president.[137] Obama's farewell visit to Berlin in November 2016 was widely interpreted as the passing of the torch of global liberal leadership to Merkel as Merkel was seen by many as the new standard bearer of liberal democracy since the election of Donald Trump as US president.[138][139]
Merkel topped Forbes magazine's list of "The World's 100 Most Powerful Women" in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020.[248]
^ Moulson, Geir; Rising, David (29 October 2018). "Merkel won't seek a 5th term as German chancellor". AP NEWS. Archived from the original on 30 November 2021. Retrieved 30 December 2018.
Krech, Eva-Maria; Stock, Eberhard; Hirschfeld, Ursula; Anders, Lutz Christian;et al., eds. (2009). Deutsches Aussprachewörterbuch (1st ed.). Walter de Gruyter. p. 739. ISBN 978-3-11-018202-6. Merkel mˈɛʶkl̩
^ Baeck, Leo (22 August 2010). "LBI Presents Leo Baeck Medal to Chancellor Angela Merkel". New York: Leo Baeck Institute. Archived from the original on 18 July 2011. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
"German Chancellor Angela Merkel makes a hat-trick win in 2013 Elections". Archived from the original on 26 September 2013. Retrieved 23 September 2013.
^ "German parties back new coalition". BBC News. 14 November 2005. Archived from the original on 11 January 2009.
Buchholz, Christine (9 September 2010). "Merkel's affront to Muslims" (in German). Die linke. Archived from the original on 18 July 2011. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
"European Energy Crisis Fuels Carbon Trading Expansion Concerns". Bloomberg. 6 October 2021. Archived from the original on 22 October 2021. Retrieved 22 October 2021.
"Angela Merkel awarded top UN refugee prize, for aid to Syrians fleeing war". UN News. 4 October 2022. Retrieved 11 October 2022.
^ "Merkel is under pressure to cut Germany's ties with China as the Hong Kong crisis triggers a European backlash against Beijing". Business Insider. 8 July 2020. Archived from the original on 1 October 2020. Retrieved 23 September 2020.
^ "Obama: Merkel was my closest ally". The Local. 15 November 2016. Archived from the original on 25 May 2019. Retrieved 15 November 2016.
^ a b Vick, Karl (2015). "Time Person of the Year 2015: Angela Merkel". Time. Archived from the original on 29 May 2019. Retrieved 30 April 2017.
Merkel was portrayed by Swiss actress Anna Katarina in the 2012 political satire film The Dictator.[302]
Haltiwanger, John (29 October 2018). "German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the newly christened 'leader of the free world' is preparing to step back from politics – and experts say 'the coming storm is ... quite powerful'". Business Insider. Archived from the original on 30 December 2018. Retrieved 30 December 2018.
^ "Angela Merkel's coalition is in trouble. That means Europe is, too". The Economist. Archived from the original on 25 October 2018. Retrieved 25 October 2018.
Judy Dempsey: Das Phänomen Merkel – Deutschlands Macht und Möglichkeiten. Edition Körber-Stiftung, Hamburg 2013, ISBN 978-3-89684-097-4.
^ Fouquet, Helene; Delfs, Arne; and Wingrove, Josh (27 May 2017). "Trump Goes His Own Way as G-7 Cobbles Together an Awkward Truce". Bloomberg. Archived from the original on 27 May 2017. Retrieved 27 May 2017.
^ vestnesis.lv. "Par Triju Zvaigžņu ordeņa piešķiršanu – Latvijas Vēstnesis". vestnesis.lv. Archived from the original on 11 April 2019. Retrieved 10 April 2019.
"Angela Merkel receiving honour". Archived from the original on 8 August 2017.[unreliable source?]
^ Parkin, Brian; Suess, Oliver (6 October 2008). "Hypo Real Gets EU50 Billion Government-Led Bailout". Bloomberg. Archived from the original on 22 October 2012. Retrieved 6 October 2008.
^ "Biographie: Angela Merkel, geb. 1954". DHM. Archived from the original on 25 February 2009. Retrieved 2 March 2010.
^ "Germany: 'No Limit' To Refugees We'll Take In". Sky News. 5 September 2015. Archived from the original on 10 April 2016. Retrieved 10 January 2016.
"Lithuanian president bestows state award upon German chancellor". Delfi (web portal). Archived from the original on 8 August 2017. Retrieved 7 August 2017.
^ "Merkel honours Mohammad cartoonist at press award". Reuters. 8 September 2010. Archived from the original on 2 October 2012.
^ Peel, Quentin (16 December 2012). "Merkel warns on cost of welfare". Financial Times. Archived from the original on 24 March 2016. Retrieved 24 February 2016.
Casier, Marlies; Jongerden, Joost, eds. (2010). Nationalisms and Politics in Turkey. p. 110. doi:10.4324/9780203847060. ISBN 978-1-136-93867-2.
On 26 September 2021, elections proved inconclusive, although the SPD won the most votes. This necessitated long negotiations among the various parties to form a government. On 23 November 2021, a new coalition was announced, with Olaf Scholz nominated to succeed Merkel.[97] Merkel continued to serve as chancellor in a caretaker capacity until 8 December 2021, when Scholz was sworn in.[98]
Following the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, Merkel faced renewed criticisms that she had failed to curb Russian president Vladimir Putin's ambitions and aggression by insisting on diplomacy and détente policies.[295][296][297] Critics argued that under her tenure, Germany and Europe was weakened by a dependency on Russian natural gas, including the Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 pipelines,[295][296] and that the German military was neglected by underfunding.[298][297] Her chancellorship has become tightly associated with the policy of Wandel durch Handel, pursuing close economic ties with authoritarian leaders. When the Wandel durch Handel policy came under intense domestic and international scrutiny following the Russian invasion, Merkel received much of the blame,[131][133] leading Politico to write "[n]o German is more responsible for the crisis in Ukraine than Merkel".[132] Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy also blamed Merkel and then-French president Nicolas Sarkozy's decision to block Ukraine from joining NATO in 2008 for the war; Merkel released a statement that she stands by her decision.[299]
Slovakia:Grand Cross of the Order of the White Double Cross[232]
"German leader Merkel gets Fulbright, stresses cooperation to fight nationalism". 28 January 2019.
"Merkel coalition crisis: Seehofer offers to quit over migration". www.aljazeera.com. Archived from the original on 30 November 2021. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
"Merkel Dott.ssa Angela". Quirinale (in Italian). Archived from the original on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 13 August 2016.
In June 2017, Merkel criticized the draft of new US sanctions against Russia that target EU–Russia energy projects, including Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.[150]
Max Bearak (29 March 2017). "Decades of yearly portraits show how power has transformed Angela Merkel". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on 21 December 2018. Retrieved 20 November 2018.
^ Müller, Volker. "Deutscher Bundestag – Bundeskanzlerin und Bundeskabinett vereidigt". Deutscher Bundestag (in German). Archived from the original on 2 July 2017. Retrieved 14 December 2018.
^ Patterson, Tony (17 November 2015). "Angela Merkel's journey from Communist East Germany to Chancellor". The Independent. Archived from the original on 19 April 2017. Retrieved 19 April 2017.
^ Among others, in her speech on the occasion of her honorary doctoral degree at the University of Szeged in Hungary, see "Rede von Bundeskanzlerin Merkel anlässlich der Verleihung der Ehrendoktorwürde der Universität Szeged" (in German). Die Bundesregierung. 2 February 2015. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017.
5Political positions											Toggle Political positions subsection																					5.1Domestic policy																								5.1.1Immigration, refugees and migration																														5.22015 European migrant crisis																											5.32018 asylum government crisis																											5.4COVID-19 pandemic																											5.5Foreign policy																								5.5.1United States																											5.5.2China																											5.5.3Russia																											5.5.4Other issues																														5.6Eurozone crisis																											5.7Social expenditure																											5.8International status																											5.9Succession
The CDU/CSU turned to the SPD to form the third grand coalition in postwar German history and the second under Merkel's leadership. The third Cabinet of Angela Merkel was sworn in on 17 December 2013.[77]
Ehni, Ellen (4 August 2016). "ARD-Deutschlandtrend: Mehrheit gegen EU-Beitritt der Türkei". tagesschau.de (in German). Archived from the original on 23 May 2019. Retrieved 9 November 2016.
"Olaf Scholz elected as Germany's new Chancellor, replacing Angela Merkel"
"Germany: Coalition split on transit zones". DW.COM. Archived from the original on 4 November 2015. Retrieved 4 November 2015.
Karnitschnig, Matthew (28 March 2022). "Putin's useful German idiots". Politico. Retrieved 5 April 2022.
"Angela Merkel awarded the 2022 Unesco Peace Prize for her efforts to welcome refugees". The Brussels Times. Retrieved 24 August 2022.
"Germany: 'No Limit' To Refugees We'll Take In". Sky News. 5 September 2015. Archived from the original on 10 April 2016. Retrieved 6 September 2015.
"Merkel, While Refusing to Halt Migrant Influx, Works to Limit It"
^ "Koning Filip reikt Grootlint in de Leopoldsorde uit aan Angela Merkel". 11 October 2021. Archived from the original on 29 October 2021. Retrieved 15 October 2021.
When announcing the coalition agreement, Merkel stated that the main aim of her government would be to reduce unemployment, and that it was this issue on which her government would be judged.[73]
^ Mangold, Max, ed. (1995). Duden, Aussprachewörterbuch (in German) (6th ed.). Dudenverlag. p. 501. ISBN 978-3-411-20916-3. Merkel ˈmɛrkl̩
Roberts, Rachel (23 January 2017). "Germany has 'given up' on Donald Trump acting like a President". The Independent. Archived from the original on 13 March 2019. Retrieved 24 August 2017.
Wagele, Elizabeth (16 July 2012). "What Personality Type is Angela Merkel?". Psychology Today. Retrieved 23 September 2013.
"Tildelinger av ordener og medaljer". Kongehuset (in Norwegian). Archived from the original on 4 November 2013. Retrieved 6 October 2013.
"Obama passes torch to Merkel on farewell tour". France 24. 17 November 2016. Archived from the original on 13 August 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
^ a b Huggler, Justin (9 October 2015). "10 moments that define German chancellor Angela Merkel". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 22 May 2017. Retrieved 29 April 2017.
After the Kohl Government was defeated at the 1998 election, Merkel was appointed Secretary-General of the CDU,[52] a key position as the party was no longer part of the federal government.[citation needed] Merkel oversaw a string of CDU election victories in six out of seven state elections in 1999, breaking the long-standing SPD-Green hold on the Bundesrat. Following a party funding scandal that compromised many leading figures of the CDU – including Kohl himself and his successor as CDU Leader, Wolfgang Schäuble – Merkel criticised her former mentor publicly and advocated a fresh start for the party without him.[52]
^ Connolly, Kate (24 November 2017). "Germany's SPD is ready for talks to end coalition deadlock". The Guardian. Berlin. Archived from the original on 24 November 2017. Retrieved 24 November 2017.
^ Oltermann, Philip; Chrisafis, Angelique; Connolly, Kate (2 July 2018). "Merkel and Seehofer make last-ditch bid for migration compromise". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 9 November 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
^ "Berlin calls for sanctions on EU states that reject refugee quotas Archived 8 September 2020 at the Wayback Machine". Deutsche Welle. 15 September 2015.
"Merkel named as German chancellor". BBC News. 10 October 2005. Archived from the original on 23 September 2013. Retrieved 27 August 2011.
"Obama: Merkel was my closest ally". The Local. 15 November 2016. Archived from the original on 25 May 2019. Retrieved 15 November 2016.
Ebola Fighters: Dr. Jerry Brown / Dr. Kent Brantly /Ella Watson-Stryker / Foday Gollah / Salome Karwah
"Belgien: Ehrendoktor für Angela Merkel". Euronews (in German). 12 January 2017. Archived from the original on 2 April 2019. Retrieved 15 January 2017.
"Germany's interior minister Horst Seehofer wants quick action on migrants". 18 June 2018. Archived from the original on 18 June 2018. Retrieved 24 August 2021.
Riccardi, Andrea. "Der Karlspreisträger 2009" (in German). Karlspreis.de. Archived from the original on 18 December 2008.
On 22 November 2005, Merkel assumed the office of Chancellor of Germany following a stalemate election that resulted in a grand coalition with the SPD. The coalition deal was approved by both parties at party conferences on 14 November 2005.[70] Merkel was elected Chancellor by the majority of delegates (397 to 217) in the newly assembled Bundestag on 22 November 2005, but 51 members of the governing coalition voted against her.[71]
Spohr, Kristina (8 July 2017). "The learning machine: Angela Merkel". New Statesman. Archived from the original on 12 January 2018. Retrieved 11 January 2018.
"Angela Merkel a primit titlul de Doctor Honoris Causa al Universităţii Babeş-Bolyai". Realitatea TV. 12 October 2010. Archived from the original on 15 October 2010. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
"Merkel: Sarrazin spaltet Gesellschaft" (in German). N24 News. Archived from the original on 3 September 2010. Retrieved 14 January 2013.
^ "Four Freedoms Award". Archived from the original on 6 June 2022. Retrieved 31 May 2022.
In October 2015, Horst Seehofer, Bavarian State Premier and CSU leader, criticised Merkel's policy of allowing in hundreds of thousands of migrants from the Middle East: "We're now in a state of mind without rules, without system and without order because of a German decision."[111] Seehofer attacked Merkel policies in sharp language, threatened to sue the government in the high court, and hinted that the CSU might topple Merkel. Many MPs of Merkel's CDU party also voiced dissatisfaction with Merkel.[284] Chancellor Merkel insisted that Germany has the economic strength to cope with the influx of migrants and reiterated that there is no legal maximum limit on the number of migrants Germany can take.[285] Under her open-borders policy several women were murdered by the unchecked immigrants like the Murder of Maria Ladenburger and 2018 Killing of Susanna Feldmann, it also allowed the events of the 2015/2016 New Year's Eve, mainly in the city of Cologne, where hundreds of women were sexually assaulted.
Buergin, Rainer (2 October 2015). "Merkel Approval Rating Drops to Four-Year Low on Refugee Crisis". Bloomberg. Archived from the original on 7 March 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
Merkel was widely described as the de facto leader of the European Union throughout her tenure as Chancellor. Merkel was twice named the world's second most powerful person, following Vladimir Putin, by Forbes magazine, the highest ranking ever achieved by a woman.[163][164][165][166][167] On 26 March 2014, Merkel became the longest-serving incumbent head of government in the European Union. In December 2015, Merkel was named as Time magazine's Person of the Year, with the magazine's cover declaring her to be the "Chancellor of the Free World".[168] In 2018, Merkel was named the most powerful woman in the world for a record fourteenth time by Forbes.[169] Following the election of Donald Trump to the US presidency in 2016, Merkel was described by The New York Times as "the Liberal West's Last Defender",[170] and by a number of commentators as the "leader of the free world".[171][172][173][174] Specifically, Politico called Merkel the "leader of the free world" when reporting on her meeting with President Trump.[14] Former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton described Merkel in 2017 as "the most important leader in the free world".[175] The Atlantic described her in 2019 as "the world's most successful living politician, on the basis of both achievement and longevity".[176] She was found in a 2018 survey to be the most respected world leader internationally.[177] She was named as Harvard University's commencement speaker in 2019; Harvard University President Larry Bacow described her as "one of the most widely admired and broadly influential statespeople of our time".[178]When Merkel retired as Chancellor, Hillary Clinton wrote that "she led Europe through difficult times with steadiness and bravery, and for four long years, she was the leader of the free world."[15][179]
Connolly, Kate; Wintour, Patrick (4 April 2022). "Pressure mounts on German ministers to embargo Russian energy". The Guardian. Retrieved 4 April 2022.
Oltermann, Philip (4 March 2018). "Merkel secures fourth term in power after SPD backs coalition deal". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on 15 December 2018. Retrieved 14 December 2018.
"Germany Flirts With Power Crunch in Nuclear and Coal Exit". Bloomberg. 22 August 2021. Archived from the original on 22 October 2021. Retrieved 22 October 2021.
^ Ali, Yashar (24 September 2017). "Clinton Says Angela Merkel Is The Most Important Leader in the Free World". HuffPost. Archived from the original on 10 April 2018. Retrieved 9 April 2018.
In March 2018, the CSU's Horst Seehofer took over the role of Interior Minister.[citation needed] A policy Seehofer announced is that he has a "master plan for faster asylum procedures, and more consistent deportations."[119] Under Seehofer's plan, Germany would reject migrants who have already been deported or have an entry ban and would instruct police to turn away all migrants who have registered elsewhere in the EU, no matter if these countries agreed to take them back.[120][121] Merkel feared that unilaterally sending migrants back to neighbouring countries without seeking a multilateral European agreement could endanger the stability of the European Union.
Müller, Volker. "Deutscher Bundestag – Bundeskanzlerin und Bundeskabinett vereidigt". Deutscher Bundestag (in German). Archived from the original on 2 July 2017. Retrieved 14 December 2018.
^ "Angela Merkel a primit titlul de Doctor Honoris Causa al Universităţii Babeş-Bolyai". Realitatea TV. 12 October 2010. Archived from the original on 15 October 2010. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
^ "Angela Merkel Receives Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding". ABC News. 1 June 2011. Archived from the original on 26 September 2011. Retrieved 16 November 2011.
In 1977, at the age of 23, Merkel, then Angela Kasner, married physics student Ulrich Merkel (born 1953)[194] and took his surname. The marriage ended in divorce in 1982.[195] Her second and current husband is quantum chemist and professor Joachim Sauer, who has largely remained out of the media spotlight. They first met in 1981,[196] became a couple later and married privately on 30 December 1998.[197] She has no children, but Sauer has two adult sons from a previous marriage.[198]
Langguth, Gerd (August 2005). Angela Merkel (in German). Munich: DTV. p. 10. ISBN 3-423-24485-2.
She is known in German as Bundeskanzlerin. Bundeskanzlerin is a grammatically regular formation of a noun denoting a female chancellor, adding "-in" to the end of Bundeskanzler, though the word was not used officially before Merkel.
Jordan:Grand Cordon of the Supreme Order of the Renaissance (27 October 2021)
In September 2021, after years of evading the question, Merkel said she considered herself a feminist. The statement came in a conference along with Nigerian writer and feminist icon Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.[210]
"Angela Merkel sets off for China to forge new economic ties". Herald Globe. Archived from the original on 14 July 2014. Retrieved 5 July 2014.
Smale, Alison; Erlanger, Steven (28 May 2017). "Merkel, After Discordant G-7 Meeting, Is Looking Past Trump". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 1 June 2017. Retrieved 29 May 2017.
Migrant crisis: Germany 'can take 500,000 asylum seekers a year'
In May 2019, Merkel was awarded an honorary doctorate from Harvard University.[242]
Volker Resing: Angela Merkel. Die Protestantin. Ein Porträt. St. Benno-Verlag, Leipzig 2009, ISBN 978-3-7462-2648-4.
Francis, David (22 September 2013). ""Mama" Merkel May Win Germany, But Not the Euro Zone". The Fiscal Times. Archived from the original on 5 October 2018. Retrieved 22 September 2013.
Cashman, Greer Fay (25 February 2014). "President Peres awards Germany's Merkel Medal of Distinction". The Jerusalem Post. Archived from the original on 25 February 2014.
"Climate Policy Meets Cold Reality in Europe". The Wall Street Journal. 27 September 2021. Archived from the original on 22 October 2021. Retrieved 22 October 2021.
^ "Angela Merkel awarded the 2022 Unesco Peace Prize for her efforts to welcome refugees". The Brussels Times. Retrieved 24 August 2022.
"Image of Angela Merkel". Archived from the original on 8 August 2017.[unreliable source?]
Jackson, Patrick (8 June 2022). "Ukraine war: Angela Merkel defends her record on Putin". BBC.
In response to the death of Chinese Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo, who died of organ failure while in government custody, Merkel said in a statement that Liu had been a "courageous fighter for civil rights and freedom of expression."[147]
Gertrud Höhler: Die Patin. Wie Angela Merkel Deutschland umbaut. Orell Füssli, Zürich 2012, ISBN 978-3-280-05480-2.
^ "Indian media: Indira Gandhi Peace Prize to Merkel". BBC News. 20 November 2013. Archived from the original on 20 September 2020. Retrieved 24 March 2021.
^ "Germany's never-ending coalition talks break record". Deutsche Welle. 20 December 2017. Archived from the original on 15 December 2018. Retrieved 14 December 2018.
"Dependence on Russian gas worries some – but not all – European countries". The Christian Science Monitor. 6 March 2008. Archived from the original on 8 November 2011. Retrieved 23 August 2011.
^ a b Miller, Saskia (20 April 2020). "The Secret to Germany's COVID-19 Success: Angela Merkel Is a Scientist". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 2 May 2020. Retrieved 21 April 2020.
Skard, Torild (2014) "Angela Merkel" in Women of Power – Half a Century of Female presidents and Prime Ministers Worldwide, Bristol: Policy Press, ISBN 978-1-4473-1578-0
Paun, Carmen (7 October 2017). "Angela Merkel Ready to Move Forward with Jamaica Coalition". Politico. Archived from the original on 7 October 2017. Retrieved 9 October 2017.
Merkel compared the NSA to the Stasi when it became known that her mobile phone was tapped by that agency. In response, Susan Rice pledged that the US would desist from spying on her personally, but said there would not be a no-espionage agreement between the two countries.[280]
In late August 2015, during the height of the European migrant crisis, Merkel's government suspended European provisions, which stipulated that asylum seekers must seek asylum in the first EU country they arrive. Instead Merkel announced that Germany would also process asylum applications from Syrian refugees if they had come to Germany through other EU countries.[105] That year, nearly 1.1 million asylum seekers entered Germany.
"Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer elected to succeed Merkel as CDU leader". Politico. 7 December 2018. Archived from the original on 10 January 2021. Retrieved 18 July 2019.
Barro, Josh (18 August 2016). "Hillary is America's Merkel, but not in the way Trump thinks". Business Insider. Archived from the original on 22 June 2018. Retrieved 20 December 2016.
American Women: Susan Brownmiller / Kathleen Byerly / Alison Cheek / Jill Conway / Betty Ford / Ella Grasso / Carla Hills / Barbara Jordan / Billie Jean King / Susie Sharp / Carol Sutton / Addie Wyatt
^ Lucassen, Geertje; Lubbers, Marcel (2012). "Who Fears What? Explaining Far-Right-Wing Preference in Europe by Distinguishing Perceived Cultural and Economic Threats". Comparative Political Studies. 45 (5). doi:10.1177/0010414011427851. S2CID 145071392.
^ Mangold, Max, ed. (1995). Duden, Aussprachewörterbuch (in German) (6th ed.). Dudenverlag. p. 139. ISBN 978-3-411-20916-3. Angela ˈaŋɡela auch: aŋˈɡeːla.
^ "Angela Merkel – Biography, Political Career & Facts". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 18 January 2018. Retrieved 18 January 2018.
^ "Kauder: 'Der Islam gehört nicht zu Deutschland'" [Kauder: "Islam does not belong to Germany"] (in German). dpa/T-Online. 18 January 2015. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 20 January 2015.
^ a b "Germany Flirts With Power Crunch in Nuclear and Coal Exit". Bloomberg. 22 August 2021. Archived from the original on 22 October 2021. Retrieved 22 October 2021.
^ "The World's Most Powerful Women 2018". Forbes. Archived from the original on 18 September 2019. Retrieved 30 December 2018.
^ Volkery, Carsten (3 August 2005). "CDU-Panne: Brutto, netto, Merkel". Der Spiegel. Archived from the original on 5 February 2017. Retrieved 19 May 2017.
Merkel worked and studied at the Central Institute for Physical Chemistry of the Academy of Sciences in Berlin-Adlershof from 1978 to 1990. At first she and her husband squatted in Mitte.[43] At the Academy of Sciences, she became a member of its FDJ secretariat. According to her former colleagues, she openly propagated Marxism as the secretary for "Agitation and Propaganda".[44] However, Merkel has denied this claim and stated that she was secretary for culture, which involved activities like obtaining theatre tickets and organising talks by visiting Soviet authors.[45] She stated: "I can only rely on my memory, if something turns out to be different, I can live with that."[44]
Merkel favors the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union; but stated in December 2012 that its implementation depends on reforms in Ukraine.[151]
^ Grüne/Bündnis 90 Spokesman Renate Künast: "I wouldn't have done it", said Green Party floor leader Renate Künast. It was true that the right to freedom of expression also applies to cartoons, she said. "But if a chancellor also makes a speech on top of that, it serves to heat up the debate."[271]
"Merkel splits conservative bloc with green light to refugees". Reuters. 6 September 2015. Archived from the original on 9 October 2015. Retrieved 10 January 2016.
The Guardians: Jamal Khashoggi / Maria Ressa / Wa Lone / Kyaw Soe Oo / Staff of The Capital(2018)
"Merkel defends German reform plan". BBC News. 12 November 2005. Archived from the original on 15 March 2006.
Moulson, Geir (27 November 2013). "Angela Merkel reaches deal with SPD to form German-Grand-Coalition". The Independent. AP. Archived from the original on 23 December 2017. Retrieved 23 December 2017.
^ "Enterprise policies" (PDF). European Council. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 August 2013. Retrieved 11 September 2012.
Creitz, Charles (8 December 2021). "Hillary Clinton jabs Donald Trump on Angela Merkel's last day: 'Leader of the free world for 4 years'". Fox News.
Merkels Lehre aus dem Griechenland-Drama Archived 13 December 2020 at the Wayback Machine, (Merkel's learnings from the Greek drama) orf.at, 12 December 2012.
"Rede von Bundeskanzlerin Merkel anlässlich der Verleihung der Ehrendoktorwürde der Universität Szeged"
In 2016, a documentary film Angela Merkel – The Unexpected, a story about her unexpected rise to power from an East German physicist to the most powerful woman in the world, was produced by Broadview TV and MDR in collaboration with Arte and Das Erste.[308]
"Germany migrants: Key Merkel ally Seehofer threatens to quit". BBC News. 2 July 2018. Archived from the original on 19 September 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
Clarke, Hilary (30 October 2018). "For years, Angela Merkel saw off all challengers. Now, she's preparing to step aside". CNN. Archived from the original on 30 December 2018. Retrieved 30 December 2018.
"Germany Flirts With Power Crunch in Nuclear and Coal Exit"
Langguth, Gerd (August 2005). Angela Merkel. DTV (in German). p. 10. ISBN 3-423-24485-2.
Oltermann, Philip; Chrisafis, Angelique; Connolly, Kate (2 July 2018). "Merkel and Seehofer make last-ditch bid for migration compromise". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 9 November 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
Oltermann, Philip (16 April 2020). "Angela Merkel draws on science background in Covid-19 explainer: German chancellor excels in describing epidemiological basis of lockdown exit strategy". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 21 April 2020. Retrieved 21 April 2020.
^ Moulson, Geir; Rising, David (29 October 2018). "Angela Merkel won't seek 5th term as German chancellor". Associated Press. Archived from the original on 29 October 2018. Retrieved 29 October 2018.
Le Blond, Josie (29 October 2018). "German chancellor Angela Merkel will not seek re-election in 2021". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 17 December 2020. Retrieved 29 October 2018.
"Germany's interior minister Horst Seehofer wants quick action on migrants"
^ Wells, J. C. (2008). Longman Pronunciation Dictionary. Pearson Education Limited.
Penfold, Chuck (30 October 2009). "Merkel's new cabinet sworn in". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 1 June 2010. Retrieved 1 November 2009.
^ "Merkel hat polnische Wurzeln" [Merkel has Polish roots]. Süddeutsche Zeitung. 13 March 2013. Archived from the original on 6 September 2013.
"Germany's SPD is ready for talks to end coalition deadlock"
"Sensible talks urged by Merkel to restore trust with US"
^ "Merkel: Nuclear phase-out is wrong". World Nuclear News. 10 June 2008. Archived from the original on 16 June 2011. Retrieved 27 August 2011.
Moulson, Geir; Rising, David (29 October 2018). "Angela Merkel won't seek 5th term as German chancellor". Associated Press. Archived from the original on 29 October 2018. Retrieved 29 October 2018.
On 29 October 2018, Merkel announced that she would not seek reelection as leader of CDU at their party conference in December 2018, but intended to remain as chancellor until the 2021 German federal election was held. She stated that she did not plan to seek any political office after this. The resignations followed October setbacks for the CSU in the Bavarian state election and for the CDU in the Hessian state election.[21][180] In August 2019, Merkel hinted that she might return to academia at the end of her term in 2021.[181]
"Zayed order for Merkel". 26 May 2010. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
"Angela Merkel: Her bio in brief". The Christian Science Monitor. 20 September 2013. Archived from the original on 29 November 2018. Retrieved 29 November 2018.
^ Suckert, Wolfgang (17 July 2014). "Wie Angela Merkel beinahe Thüringerin wurde". Thüringer Allgemeine (in German). Archived from the original on 1 June 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
In July 2013, Merkel defended the surveillance practices of the National Security Agency, and described the United States as "our truest ally throughout the decades".[276][277] During a visit of U.S. President Barack Obama in Berlin, Merkel said on 19 June 2013 in the context of the 2013 mass surveillance disclosures: "The Internet is uncharted territory for us all" (German: Das Internet ist für uns alle Neuland). This statement led to various internet memes and online mockery of Merkel.[278][279]
"Angela Merkel Receives Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding". ABC News. 1 June 2011. Archived from the original on 26 September 2011. Retrieved 16 November 2011.
In September 2015, she was awarded the title Doctor Honoris Causa by the University of Bern.
"Merkel Signals New Era for Europe as Trump Smashes Consensus"
^ "Doktorat honoris causa dla Merkel". RP (in Polish). 24 September 2008. Archived from the original on 13 May 2012. Retrieved 2 March 2010.
Voigt, Linda. "Get the party started: The social policy of the grand coalition 2013–2017." German Politics 28.3 (2019): 426–443.
Traynor, Ian (17 December 2013). "Merkel compared NSA to Stasi in heated encounter with Obama". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 30 September 2013. Retrieved 2 May 2014.
Frickel, Claudia (20 June 2013). "Merkel beim Besuch von Obama: Das Netz lacht über Merkels "Internet-Neuland"". Der Focus (Online Version) (in German). Archived from the original on 30 September 2013. Retrieved 25 October 2013.
Reports at the time indicated that the grand coalition would pursue a mix of policies, some of which differed from Merkel's political platform as leader of the opposition and candidate for Chancellor. The coalition's intent was to cut public spending whilst increasing VAT (from 16 to 19%), social insurance contributions and the top rate of income tax.[72]
On 28 November 2012, she received the Heinz Galinski Award in Berlin, Germany.
The Apollo 8 Astronauts: William Anders / Frank Borman / Jim Lovell(1968)
Merkel argued that Germany should phase out nuclear power less quickly than the Schröder administration had planned.[59][60]
^ "Harvard awards nine honorary degrees". 30 May 2019. Archived from the original on 30 May 2019. Retrieved 30 May 2019.
"Angela Merkel speaks to UK Parliament in English about EU". BBC News. 27 February 2014. Retrieved 9 December 2021.
^ Online, FOCUS. "Eines Tages zog sie aus". FOCUS Online. Archived from the original on 8 May 2019. Retrieved 8 May 2019.
Schmidt, Nadine; Vonberg, Judith (2 July 2018). "Germany's Merkel makes deal with interior minister on migration dispute".CNN International Edition. Archived from the original on 3 July 2018. Retrieved 3 July 2018.
^ Serafin, Tatiana (31 August 2006). "The 100 Most Powerful Women: #1 Angela Merkel". Forbes. Archived from the original on 19 April 2009. Retrieved 1 May 2009.Serafin, Tatiana (30 August 2007). "The 100 Most Powerful Women: #1 Angela Merkel". Forbes. Archived from the original on 30 April 2009. Retrieved 17 May 2009.Serafin, Tatiana (27 August 2008). "The 100 Most Powerful Women: #1 Angela Merkel". Forbes. Archived from the original on 19 April 2009. Retrieved 17 May 2009."Merkel most powerful woman in world: Forbes". Euronews. 26 August 2011. Archived from the original on 9 March 2020. Retrieved 19 December 2011."Angela Merkel". Forbes. Archived from the original on 26 September 2017."World's Most Powerful Women". Forbes. Archived from the original on 20 September 2017. Retrieved 29 March 2018.
Ehni, Ellen (6 October 2016). "ARD-DeutschlandTrend: Merkel überwindet ihr Tief" [ARD-DeutschlandTrend: Merkel overcomes her low point.] (in German). ARD-tagesschau. Archived from the original on 13 April 2019. Retrieved 9 November 2016.
"The leader of the free world meets Donald Trump". POLITICO. 17 March 2017. Retrieved 10 February 2022.
In 2020, Merkel received the Henry A. Kissinger Prize from the American Academy in Berlin.[258]
On 25 September 2007, Merkel met the 14th Dalai Lama for "private and informal talks" in the Chancellery in Berlin amid protest from China. China afterwards cancelled separate talks with German officials, including talks with Justice Minister Brigitte Zypries.[145]
^ Smale, Alison; Erlanger, Steven (12 November 2016). "As Obama Exits World Stage, Angela Merkel May Be the Liberal West's Last Defender". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 27 May 2019. Retrieved 18 July 2019.
^ Torsten Krauel, Chefkommentator (12 March 2019). "Kanzlerin Kramp-Karrenbauer? Eine Gespensterdebatte". Die Welt. Axel Springer SE (WELT und N24Doku), Berlin. Archived from the original on 10 April 2019. Retrieved 5 April 2019.
"G20-Gipfel in Hamburg: Merkel nennt erstmals Themen". Hamburger Abendblatt. Archived from the original on 3 December 2018. Retrieved 12 September 2016.
^ "Belgien: Ehrendoktor für Angela Merkel". Euronews (in German). 12 January 2017. Archived from the original on 2 April 2019. Retrieved 15 January 2017.
^ "Ich will, dass Angela Merkel Kanzlerin bleibt". Der Spiegel (online). 11 March 2019. Archived from the original on 19 March 2019. Retrieved 5 April 2019.
Hume, Tim. "Putin: I didn't mean to scare Angela Merkel with dog". CNN. Archived from the original on 7 May 2019. Retrieved 20 July 2016.
U.S. Scientists: George Beadle / Charles Draper / John Enders / Donald A. Glaser / Joshua Lederberg / Willard Libby / Linus Pauling / Edward Purcell / Isidor Rabi / Emilio Segrè / William Shockley / Edward Teller / Charles Townes / James Van Allen / Robert Woodward(1960)
In the 2017 federal election, Merkel led her party to victory for the fourth time. Both CDU/CSU and SPD received a significantly lower proportion of the vote than they did in 2013, and attempted to form a coalition with the FDP and Greens.[87][88] The collapse of these talks led to stalemate.[89] The German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier subsequently appealed successfully to the SPD to change their hard stance and to agree to a third grand coalition with the CDU/CSU.[90]
^ Creitz, Charles (8 December 2021). "Hillary Clinton jabs Donald Trump on Angela Merkel's last day: 'Leader of the free world for 4 years'". Fox News.
^ Islam, Faisal (18 November 2016). "Baton of global leadership passes from US to Germany". Sky News. Archived from the original on 8 November 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
^ "European Energy Crisis Fuels Carbon Trading Expansion Concerns". Bloomberg. 6 October 2021. Archived from the original on 22 October 2021. Retrieved 22 October 2021.
"German chancellor Angela Merkel will not seek re-election in 2021"
^ a b "The Merkel plan". The Economist. 15 June 2013. Archived from the original on 23 March 2016. Retrieved 24 February 2016.
Uhlmann, Stefan (14 August 2009). "Joachim Sauer, das Phantom an Merkels Seite". Die Zeit (in German). Archived from the original on 16 August 2009. Retrieved 11 June 2010.
^ a b Matthijs, Matthias; Kelemen, R. Daniel (9 July 2021). "The Other Side of Angela Merkel". Foreign Policy. Retrieved 27 May 2022.
Since 1991, Merkel has sat annually for sitting and standing portraits by, and interview with, Herlinde Koelbl.[300][301]
Langguth, Gerd (2005). Angela Merkel (in German). Munich: dtv. pp. 106–107. ISBN 3-423-24485-2. Angela Merkel war allerdings kein 'einfaches Mitglied', sondern gehörte zum FDJ-Sekretariat des Instituts. Osten [Hans-Jörg Osten] kann sich nicht an die genaue Funktion seiner damaligen Kollegin erinnern. ... Er kann sich nicht definitiv daran erinnern, aber auch nicht ausschließen, dass Angela Merkel die Funktion eines Sekretärs für Agitation und Propaganda wahrnahm. [Angela Merkel was not just an 'ordinary member', but belonged to the FDJ secretariat of the institute. Osten cannot remember the exact function of his erstwhile colleague. ... He cannot remember definitely whether she performed the function of a secretary for agitation and propaganda, but he cannot exclude that possibility.]
Schulz, Sven Christian (5 April 2022). "War der Westen naiv?". Redaktionsnetzwerk Deutschland. Retrieved 27 May 2022.
vestnesis.lv. "Par Triju Zvaigžņu ordeņa piešķiršanu – Latvijas Vēstnesis". vestnesis.lv. Archived from the original on 11 April 2019. Retrieved 10 April 2019.
As a woman who is a politician from a centre-right party and also a scientist, Merkel has been compared by many in the English-language press to late 20th century British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher (Thatcher also had a science degree from Oxford University in chemistry). Some have referred to her as "Iron Lady", "Iron Girl", and even "The Iron Frau", all alluding to Thatcher, whose nickname was "The Iron Lady". Political commentators have debated the precise extent to which their agendas are similar.[261] Later in her tenure, Merkel acquired the nickname "Mutti" (a German familiar form of "mother").She has also been called the "Iron Chancellor", in reference to Otto von Bismarck.[262][263]
^ The medal is presented to people who have made an especially meritorious contribution to the security or national interests of the United States, world peace, or cultural or other significant public or private endeavors
Stefan Kornelius: Angela Merkel. Die Kanzlerin und ihre Welt. Hoffmann und Campe, Hamburg 2013, ISBN 978-3-455-50291-6.
^ "True total hottie Frau": Die bislang beste Merkel – Parodie kommt von der BBC Archived 19 December 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Buzzer, 21 January 2016.
"Don't shun China, urges Merkel at American prize ceremony". Reuters. 21 January 2020. Archived from the original on 22 January 2020. Retrieved 13 August 2020.
^ "Honorary Doctorates". The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Archived from the original on 16 October 2008. Retrieved 3 June 2008.
^ Langguth, Gerd (August 2005) [2005]. Angela Merkel (in German). Munich: DTV. pp. 112–137. ISBN 3-423-24485-2.
"Germany's charged immigration debate". BBC News. 17 October 2010. Archived from the original on 14 October 2010.
"Merkels Vater gestorben – Termine abgesagt" (in German). newsecho. 3 September 2011. Archived from the original on 14 December 2011. Retrieved 8 September 2011.
^ Rubin, Jennifer (15 November 2016). "The psychological tricks Angela Merkel used to congratulate Donald Trump say a lot about their countries' future relations". The Independent. Archived from the original on 8 May 2019. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
"Bank uncertainty hits UK shares". BBC News. 6 October 2008. Archived from the original on 7 October 2008. Retrieved 6 October 2008.
"Angela Merkel faces outright rebellion within her own party over refugee crisis". The Telegraph. Archived from the original on 25 January 2019. Retrieved 24 January 2016.
^ "Bundesregierung | Rede von Bundeskanzlerin Merkel beim Jahrestreffen 2013 des World Economic Forum" (in German). Bundesregierung.de. 24 January 2013. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 24 February 2016.
"Gehört der Islam zu Deutschland? Kauder widerspricht Merkel" Archived 22 January 2015 at the Wayback Machine, Idea, 19 January 2015 (in German)
^ "The Green Brief: Merkel's climate 'realpolitik' legacy". Euractiv. 15 September 2021. Archived from the original on 22 October 2021. Retrieved 22 October 2021.
"Merkel Approval Rating Drops to Four-Year Low on Refugee Crisis"
Kohl V (Minister for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety)
^ "German Chancellor Merkel Defends Work of Intelligence Agencies". Der Spiegel. 10 July 2013. Archived from the original on 2 May 2014. Retrieved 1 February 2014.
At the conclusion of the May 2017 Group of Seven's leaders in Sicily, Merkel criticised American efforts to renege on earlier commitments on climate change.According to Merkel, the discussions were difficult and marred by dissent. "Here we have the situation where six members, or even seven if you want to add the EU, stand against one."[286]
Kauffmann, Audrey (17 October 2010). "Merkel Says German Multi-Cultural Society Has Failed". Yahoo! News. Archived from the original on 18 October 2010. Retrieved 18 December 2013.
^ "Zentralrat der Juden kritisiert Seehofer: Debatte ist scheinheilig und hysterisch". Südwestrundfunk (in German). Retrieved 21 October 2010. Wir fühlen uns dem christlichen Menschenbild verbunden, das ist das, was uns ausmacht. Wer das nicht akzeptiert, der ist bei uns fehl am Platz[dead link]
One of Merkel's priorities was strengthening transatlantic economic relations. She signed the agreement for the Transatlantic Economic Council on 30 April 2007 at the White House.[135]
On 25 February 2022, only 24 hours after the Russian invasion of Ukraine began, she told the DPA news agency that she "condemned in the strongest terms [...] the war of aggression led by Russia, which marks a profound break in the history of post-Cold War Europe."[190]
^ "Arbeitsmarkt: Arbeitslosigkeit 2011 meist unter drei Millionen" [Labour market: Unemployment in 2011 mostly below three million]. Focus online (in German). dpa. 27 October 2010. Archived from the original on 31 May 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
Alison Smale (28 November 2015). "Merkel, While Refusing to Halt Migrant Influx, Works to Limit It". The New York Times. Retrieved 28 November 2015.
In foreign policy, Merkel has emphasised international cooperation, both in the context of the EU and NATO, and strengthening transatlantic economic relations. In 2008, Merkel served as President of the European Council and played a central role in the negotiation of the Treaty of Lisbon and the Berlin Declaration. Merkel played a crucial role in managing the global financial crisis of 2007–2008 and the European debt crisis. She negotiated the 2008 European Union stimulus plan focusing on infrastructure spending and public investment to counteract the Great Recession. In domestic policy, Merkel's Energiewende program has focused on future energy development, seeking to phase out nuclear power in Germany, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and increase renewable energy sources. Reforms to the Bundeswehr which abolished conscription, health care reform, and her government's response to the 2010s European migrant crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic in Germany were major issues during her chancellorship.[20] She served as the senior G7 leader from 2011 to 2012 and again from 2014 to 2021. In 2014, she became the longest-serving incumbent head of government in the EU. In October 2018, Merkel announced that she would stand down as Leader of the CDU at the party convention, and would not seek a fifth term as chancellor in the 2021 federal election.[21] In 2022, Merkel condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
"With Putin's war in Europe, the legacy of Germany's Merkel is now being seen in a very different light"
^ Oltermann, Philip; Connolly, Kate (14 March 2018). "Angela Merkel faces multiple challenges in her fourth term". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 14 March 2018. Retrieved 14 March 2018.
"Clouds Over Merkel's Legacy as Russian Invasion Lays Flaws Bare"
"Angela Merkel says she is in good health after third shaking bout"
Schoen, Harald. "Merely a referendum on Chancellor Merkel? Parties, issues and candidates in the 2009 German federal election." German Politics 20.1 (2011): 92–106.
In July 2021, Merkel was awarded the title Doctor of Humane Letters, honoris causa from Johns Hopkins University.[244]
During the German presidency of the European Council Merkel not only changed her mind, but spearheaded negotiating a reconstruction package for the time after the pandemic.[130]
Crossley-Frolick, Katy A. "Domestic Constraints, German Foreign Policy and Post-Conflict Peacebuilding." German Politics and Society 31.3 (2013): 43–75.
Merkel was born in Hamburg in then-West Germany, moving to East Germany as an infant when her father, a Lutheran clergyman, received a pastorate in Perleberg. She obtained a doctorate in quantum chemistry in 1986 and worked as a research scientist until 1989.[16] Merkel entered politics in the wake of the Revolutions of 1989, briefly serving as deputy spokeswoman for the first democratically elected Government of East Germany led by Lothar de Maizière. Following German reunification in 1990, Merkel was elected to the Bundestag for the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. As the protégée of Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Merkel was appointed as Minister for Women and Youth in 1991, later becoming Minister for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety in 1994. After the CDU lost the 1998 federal election, Merkel was elected CDU General Secretary, before becoming the party's first female leader and the first female Leader of the Opposition two years later, in the aftermath of a donations scandal that toppled Wolfgang Schäuble.
Lucassen, Geertje; Lubbers, Marcel (2012). "Who Fears What? Explaining Far-Right-Wing Preference in Europe by Distinguishing Perceived Cultural and Economic Threats". Comparative Political Studies. 45 (5). doi:10.1177/0010414011427851. S2CID 145071392.
"Kanzlerin Merkel kommt erst wieder zum Finale". Handelsblatt (in German). 23 June 2012. Archived from the original on 27 June 2012. Retrieved 24 March 2013.
On 7 June 2022 Merkel made her first public comments. In a Berlin theatre interview before a crowd of 2,000 with Der Spiegel journalist Alexander Osang [de], she defended her legacy on Ukraine, and termed the Putinian aggression "not just unacceptable, but also a major mistake from Russia... It's an objective breach of all international laws and of everything that allows us in Europe to live in peace at all. If we start going back through the centuries and arguing over which bit of territory should belong to whom, then we will only have war. That's not an option whatsoever."[191][192] She also said that by the end of her chancellorship in September 2021, it was clear that Putin was moving in the direction of conflict and that he was finished with the Normandy format talks.[193]
^ a.s, Petit Press (7 February 2019). "Merkel awarded for developing relations between Slovakia and Germany". spectator.sme.sk. Archived from the original on 8 February 2019. Retrieved 7 February 2019.
"Trump Goes His Own Way as G-7 Cobbles Together an Awkward Truce"
^ Müller, Volker (14 March 2018). "Deutscher Bundestag – Angela Merkel mit 364 Stimmen zur Bundeskanzlerin gewählt". Deutscher Bundestag (in German). Archived from the original on 12 July 2019. Retrieved 14 December 2018.
The Fourth Merkel cabinet was sworn in on 14 March 2018.[92] The negotiations that led to a Grand Coalition agreement with the Social Democrats (SPD) were the longest in German post-war history, lasting almost six months.[93][94]
Peru:Grand Cross of the Order of the Sun of Peru
Klatell, James M (9 August 2006). "Germany's First Fella, Angela Merkel Is Germany's Chancellor; But Her Husband Stays Out of the Spotlight". CBS News. Archived from the original on 10 August 2006. Retrieved 2 March 2010.
Merkel's government decided to phase out both nuclear power and coal plants and supported the European Commission's Green Deal plans.[291][292] Many critics blamed the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) and closure of nuclear plants for contributing to the 2021–2022 global energy crisis.[292][293][294]
Dirk Kurbjuweit: Alternativlos – Merkel, die Deutschen und das Ende der Politik. Hanser, München, 2014, ISBN 978-3-446-24620-1.
Serafin, Tatiana (31 August 2006). "The 100 Most Powerful Women: #1 Angela Merkel". Forbes. Archived from the original on 19 April 2009. Retrieved 1 May 2009.Serafin, Tatiana (30 August 2007). "The 100 Most Powerful Women: #1 Angela Merkel". Forbes. Archived from the original on 30 April 2009. Retrieved 17 May 2009.Serafin, Tatiana (27 August 2008). "The 100 Most Powerful Women: #1 Angela Merkel". Forbes. Archived from the original on 19 April 2009. Retrieved 17 May 2009."Merkel most powerful woman in world: Forbes". Euronews. 26 August 2011. Archived from the original on 9 March 2020. Retrieved 19 December 2011."Angela Merkel". Forbes. Archived from the original on 26 September 2017."World's Most Powerful Women". Forbes. Archived from the original on 20 September 2017. Retrieved 29 March 2018.
Mushaben, Joyce Marie. "The reluctant feminist: Angela Merkel and the modernization of gender politics in Germany." Femina Politica–Zeitschrift für feministische Politikwissenschaft 27.2 (2018): 83–95. online
"German leader Merkel gets Fulbright, stresses cooperation to fight nationalism"
^ "УКАЗ ПРЕЗИДЕНТА УКРАЇНИ №380/2021". Офіційне інтернет-представництво Президента України (in Ukrainian). Archived from the original on 23 August 2021. Retrieved 24 August 2021.
"Merkel honours Mohammad cartoonist at press award". Reuters. 8 September 2010. Archived from the original on 2 October 2012.
Balasubramanyam, Ranjitha (16 September 2013). "All Eyes on Berlin". Foreign Policy Journal. Archived from the original on 12 May 2019. Retrieved 23 September 2013.
"Schroeder wins second term". CNN. 23 September 2002. Archived from the original on 23 March 2018. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
After being awarded a doctorate (Dr. rer. nat.) for her thesis on quantum chemistry in 1986,[46] she worked as a researcher and published several papers.[47] In 1986, she was able to travel freely to West Germany to attend a congress; she also participated in a multi-week language course in Donetsk, in the then-Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.[48]
^ "Germany: Interior minister gives Merkel ultimatum on migrants". www.aljazeera.com. Archived from the original on 30 November 2021. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
^ Gaugele, Jochen; Kammholz, Karsten (27 December 2016). "Flüchtlingskrise wird 2017 die größte Herausforderung" [Refugee crisis to be biggest challenge in 2017]. Berliner Morgenpost (in German). Archived from the original on 23 April 2019. Retrieved 27 December 2016.
^ Knight, Ben (9 November 2016). "Merkel congratulates Trump as politicians express shock". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 9 November 2016. Retrieved 9 November 2016.
"B'nai B'rith Europe grants Award of Merit to Dr. Angela Merkel"
^ a b "How Close Was Merkel to the Communist System?". Der Spiegel. 14 May 2013. Archived from the original on 10 May 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
"Hillary is America's Merkel, but not in the way Trump thinks"
^ Riccardi, Andrea. "Der Karlspreisträger 2009" (in German). Karlspreis.de. Archived from the original on 18 December 2008.
^ Barry Turner (ed.) The Statesman's Yearbook 2015: The Politics, Cultures and Economies of the World, Springer 2014 p. 516
^ "Angela Merkel – Laureate International Four Freedoms Award 2016 – Laureates since 1982 – Four Freedoms Awards". 29 March 2019. Archived from the original on 29 March 2019.
^ "TIME Person of the Year 2015: Angela Merkel". Time. Archived from the original on 29 May 2019. Retrieved 24 February 2016.
^ a b Amaro, Silvia (14 March 2022). "With Putin's war in Europe, the legacy of Germany's Merkel is now being seen in a very different light". CNBC. Retrieved 4 April 2022.
"Zentralrat der Juden kritisiert Seehofer: Debatte ist scheinheilig und hysterisch"
"Berlin calls for sanctions on EU states that reject refugee quotas Archived 8 September 2020 at the Wayback Machine". Deutsche Welle. 15 September 2015.
"See the Best of Kate McKinnon's Hilarious Angela Merkel Impression"
"Migrant crisis: Germany 'can take 500,000 asylum seekers a year' Archived 20 October 2020 at the Wayback Machine". BBC News. 8 September 2015.
^ "Bundeskanzlerin Merkel ohne fertige Antworten in Templin". Archived from the original on 23 November 2016. Retrieved 1 December 2015.
Packer, George (1 December 2014). "The Astonishing Rise of Angela Merkel". The New Yorker. Archived from the original on 9 December 2014. Retrieved 30 April 2017.
Following the 2005 federal election, Merkel was appointed to succeed Gerhard Schröder as Chancellor of Germany, leading a grand coalition consisting of the CDU, its Bavarian sister party the Christian Social Union (CSU) and the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD). Merkel was the first woman to be elected as Chancellor, and the first Chancellor since reunification to have been raised in the former East Germany. At the 2009 federal election, the CDU obtained the largest share of the vote, and Merkel was able to form a coalition government with the Free Democratic Party (FDP).[17] At the 2013 federal election, Merkel's CDU won a landslide victory with 41.5% of the vote and formed a second grand coalition with the SPD, after the FDP lost all of its representation in the Bundestag.[18] At the 2017 federal election, Merkel led the CDU to become the largest party for the fourth time; Merkel formed a third grand coalition with the SPD and was sworn in for a joint-record fourth term as Chancellor on 14 March 2018.[19]
Weider, Thomas (2 June 2022). "Angela Merkel condemns 'the barbaric war of aggression waged by Russia,' without introspection". Le Monde.
This page was last edited on 16 March 2023, at 17:52 (UTC).
"Merkel is under pressure to cut Germany's ties with China as the Hong Kong crisis triggers a European backlash against Beijing". Business Insider. 8 July 2020. Archived from the original on 1 October 2020. Retrieved 23 September 2020.
In November 2014, she was awarded the title Doctor Honoris Causa by Comenius University in Bratislava.
Having grown up in East Germany, Merkel learned Russian at school and not English. She was able to speak informally to Vladimir Putin in Russian, but conducted diplomatic dialogue through an interpreter. She rarely spoke English in public, but delivered a small section of an address to the British parliament in English in 2014.[199][200]
She decided not to suggest any person as her successor as leader of the CDU.[182] However, political observers had long considered Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer as Merkel's protégé groomed for succession. This view was confirmed when Kramp-Karrenbauer – widely seen as the chancellor's favourite for the post – was voted to succeed Merkel as leader of the CDU in December 2018.[183] Kramp-Karrenbauer's elevation to Defence Minister after Ursula von der Leyen's departure to become president of the European Commission also boosted her standing as Merkel's most likely candidate for succession.[184] In 2019, media outlets speculated that Kramp-Karrenbauer might take over Merkel's position as Chancellor sooner than planned if the current governing coalition proved unsustainable.[185][186] The possibility was neither confirmed nor denied by the party.[187] In February 2020, Kramp-Karrenbauer announced that she would resign as party leader of the CDU in the summer, after party members in Thuringia defied her by voting with Alternative for Germany to support an FDP candidate for minister-president.[188] Kramp-Karrenbauer was succeeded by Armin Laschet at the 2021 CDU leadership election.[189]
"Angela Merkel: How Germany's Iron Chancellor is shaped by her Christianity | Christian News on Christian Today"
Merkel's foreign policy has focused on strengthening European cooperation and international trade agreements. She and her governments have been closely associated with the Wandel durch Handel policy.[131] For this, she has come under criticism, especially after the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.[132][133] Merkel has been widely described as the de facto leader of the European Union throughout her tenure as Chancellor.
Angela Merkel[permanent dead link] collected news and commentary at Al Jazeera English
^ a b "Merkel splits conservative bloc with green light to refugees". Reuters. 6 September 2015. Archived from the original on 9 October 2015. Retrieved 10 January 2016.
^ Wacket, Andreas Rinke, Markus (6 April 2020). "Coronavirus pandemic is historical test for EU, Merkel says". Reuters. Archived from the original on 15 December 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
Matthijs, Matthias; Kelemen, R. Daniel (9 July 2021). "The Other Side of Angela Merkel". Foreign Policy. Retrieved 27 May 2022.
Berlin, Oliver Moody (11 July 2019). "Concerns grow as Merkel suffers third bout of shaking". The Times. Archived from the original on 11 July 2019. Retrieved 11 July 2019.
"Das diskrete Gluck". Bild (in German). 28 December 2008. Archived from the original on 27 February 2014. Retrieved 11 June 2010.
"Enterprise policies" (PDF). European Council. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 August 2013. Retrieved 11 September 2012.
"Bericht der Vorsitzenden der CDU Deutschlands Bundeskanzlerin Dr. Angela Merkel MdB" [Report of the Chairwoman of the German CDU Federal Chancellor Dr. Angela Merkel] (PDF) (in German). 9 September 2011. Archived (PDF) from the original on 30 September 2018. Retrieved 6 April 2017. Es ist doch nicht so, dass wir ein Zuviel an Islam haben, sondern wir haben ein Zuwenig an Christentum.
"Merkel splits conservative bloc with green light to refugees". Reuters. 6 September 2015. Archived from the original on 9 October 2015. Retrieved 6 July 2021.
"Angela Merkel faces outright rebellion within her own party over refugee crisis"
^ Balasubramanyam, Ranjitha (16 September 2013). "All Eyes on Berlin". Foreign Policy Journal. Archived from the original on 12 May 2019. Retrieved 23 September 2013.
Zehfuss, Maja. "'We Can Do This': Merkel, Migration and the Fantasy of Control." International Political Sociology 15.2 (2021): 172–189.
Krauel, Torsten (13 March 2013). "Ahnenforschung: Kanzlerin Angela Merkel ist zu einem Viertel Polin". Die Welt (in German). Archived from the original on 10 September 2018. Retrieved 18 November 2016.
Mushaben, Joyce Marie. Becoming Madam Chancellor: Angela Merkel and the Berlin Republic (2017) excerpt
^ "Dependence on Russian gas worries some – but not all – European countries". The Christian Science Monitor. 6 March 2008. Archived from the original on 8 November 2011. Retrieved 23 August 2011.
Qvortrup, Matthew. Angela Merkel: Europe's most influential leader (2016) excerpt
Smale, Alison; Erlanger, Steven (12 November 2016). "As Obama Exits World Stage, Angela Merkel May Be the Liberal West's Last Defender". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 27 May 2019. Retrieved 24 February 2017.
^ "Merkel Losing Her Patience with Lack of EU Solidarity". Der Spiegel. 18 September 2020. Archived from the original on 24 September 2020. Retrieved 23 September 2020.
Karnitschnig, Matthew (18 July 2019). "Angela Merkel's succession maneuver". Politico. Archived from the original on 18 July 2019. Retrieved 18 July 2019.
^ "Germany: 'No Limit' To Refugees We'll Take In". Sky News. 5 September 2015. Archived from the original on 10 April 2016. Retrieved 6 September 2015.
^ a b Saunders, Doug (14 September 2005). "Popular flat-tax movement hits brick wall in Germany". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on 6 March 2016. Retrieved 28 November 2015.
^ "G20-Gipfel in Hamburg: Merkel nennt erstmals Themen". Hamburger Abendblatt. Archived from the original on 3 December 2018. Retrieved 12 September 2016.
Mangold, Max, ed. (1995). Duden, Aussprachewörterbuch (in German) (6th ed.). Dudenverlag. p. 139. ISBN 978-3-411-20916-3. Angela ˈaŋɡela auch: aŋˈɡeːla.
"German Chancellor Angela Merkel makes a hat-trick win in 2013 Elections"
Angela Merkel is a Lutheran member of the Evangelical Church in Berlin, Brandenburg and Silesian Upper Lusatia (German: Evangelische Kirche Berlin-Brandenburg-schlesische Oberlausitz – EKBO), a United Protestant (i.e. both Reformed and Lutheran) church body under the umbrella of the Evangelical Church in Germany (EKD). The EKBO is a church of the Union of Evangelical Churches.[211] Before the 2004 merger of the Evangelical Church in Berlin-Brandenburg and the Evangelical Church in Silesian Upper Lusatia (both also being a part of the EKD), she belonged to the former. In 2012, Merkel said, regarding her faith: "I am a member of the evangelical church. I believe in God and religion is also my constant companion, and has been for the whole of my life. We as Christians should above all not be afraid of standing up for our beliefs."[212] She also publicly declared that Germany suffers not from "too much Islam" but "too little Christianity".[213]
^ Weiland, Severin (30 May 2005). "Kohls unterschätztes Mädchen" [Kohl's Underestimated Girl]. Der Spiegel (in German). Archived from the original on 18 July 2009. Retrieved 19 August 2011.
"Who's Afraid of Angela Merkel?: The Life, Political Career, and Future of the New German Chancellor"
Religion played a key role in the Kasner family's migration from West Germany to East Germany.[31] Merkel's paternal grandfather was originally Catholic but the entire family converted to Lutheranism during the childhood of her father,[27] who later studied Lutheran theology in Heidelberg and Hamburg. In 1954, when Angela was just three months old, her father received a pastorate at the church in Quitzow [de] (a quarter of Perleberg in Brandenburg), which was then in East Germany. The family moved to Templin and Merkel grew up in the countryside 90 km (56 mi) north of East Berlin.[32]
"УКАЗ ПРЕЗИДЕНТА УКРАЇНИ №380/2021". Офіційне інтернет-представництво Президента України (in Ukrainian). Archived from the original on 23 August 2021. Retrieved 24 August 2021.
"The German chancellor's Polish roots". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 3 May 2013.
^ a b Hume, Tim. "Putin: I didn't mean to scare Angela Merkel with dog". CNN. Archived from the original on 7 May 2019. Retrieved 20 July 2016.
On 21 September 2010, the Leo Baeck Institute, a research institution in New York City devoted to the history of German-speaking Jewry, awarded Merkel the Leo Baeck Medal. The medal was presented by former US Secretary of the Treasury and current Director of the Jewish Museum Berlin, W. Michael Blumenthal, who cited Merkel's support of Jewish cultural life and the integration of minorities in Germany.[251]
In June 1993, Merkel was elected leader of the CDU in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, succeeding her former mentor Günther Krause.
The fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989 served as the catalyst for Merkel's political career. Although she did not participate in the crowd celebrations the night the wall came down, one month later Merkel became involved in the growing democracy movement, joining the new party Demokratischer Aufbruch (DA, or in English "Democratic Beginning").[49] Party Leader Wolfgang Schnur appointed her as press spokeswoman of the party in February 1990. However, Schnur was revealed to have served as an "informal co-worker" for the Stasi just a few weeks ahead of the first (and only) multi-party election in 1990 and was later expelled from the party. The DA sank as a result, only managing to elect four members to the Volkskammer. However, because the DA was a member party of the Alliance for Germany, which won the election in a landslide, the DA was included in the government coalition. Merkel was therefore appointed deputy spokesperson of the new and last pre-unification government under Lothar de Maizière.[50]
^ Karnitschnig, Matthew (18 July 2019). "Angela Merkel's succession maneuver". Politico. Archived from the original on 18 July 2019. Retrieved 18 July 2019.
^ "Dalia Grybauskaite Photo Gallery". gettyimages.co.uk. Archived from the original on 8 August 2017. Retrieved 7 August 2017.
"The new iron chancellor". The Economist. 26 November 2009. Archived from the original on 24 November 2011.
Merkel had impressed de Maizière with her adept dealing with journalists investigating Schnur's role in the Stasi.[42][49] In April 1990, DA merged with the East German Christian Democratic Union, which in turn merged with its western counterpart after reunification.
Italy:Knight Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic[221]
"Merkel 'stands by' past Ukraine NATO decision after Zelenskyy criticism"
"Germany migrants: Merkel averts coalition government split". BBC News. 3 July 2018. Archived from the original on 9 November 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
Donahue, Patrick (28 May 2017). "Merkel Signals New Era for Europe as Trump Smashes Consensus". Bloomberg.com. Archived from the original on 29 May 2017. Retrieved 29 May 2017.
Amaro, Silvia (14 March 2022). "With Putin's war in Europe, the legacy of Germany's Merkel is now being seen in a very different light". CNBC. Retrieved 4 April 2022.
In the German federal election of 1990, the first to be held following reunification, Merkel successfully stood for election to the Bundestag in the parliamentary constituency of Stralsund – Nordvorpommern – Rügen in north Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.[51] She received the crucial backing of then-influential CDU minister and state party chairman Günther Krause. She has won re-election from this constituency (renamed, with slightly adjusted borders, Vorpommern-Rügen – Vorpommern-Greifswald I in 2003) at the seven federal elections held since then. Almost immediately following her entry into parliament, Merkel was appointed by Chancellor Helmut Kohl to serve as Minister for Women and Youth in the federal cabinet.[11][52] The ministry was the smallest and least powerful one of the three ministries that were created from the old Ministry for Health, Seniors, Family and Youth.
Following the G7 Summit in Italy and the NATO Summit in Brussels, Merkel stated on 28 May 2017 that the US was no longer the reliable partner Europe and Germany had depended on in the past.[142] At an electoral rally in Munich, she said that "We have to know that we must fight for our future on our own, for our destiny as Europeans",[143] which has been interpreted as an unprecedented shift in the German-American transatlantic relationship.[144][142]
In April her spokesperson stated that she "stood by her position at the NATO summit in Bucharest in 2008," when she had opposed Ukraine's membership in the North Atlantic Alliance.[190]
^ "Germany's charged immigration debate". BBC News. 17 October 2010. Archived from the original on 14 October 2010.
^ "Merkel: Sarrazin spaltet Gesellschaft" (in German). N24 News. Archived from the original on 3 September 2010. Retrieved 14 January 2013.
The economist Arno Tausch from Corvinus University in Budapest, in a paper published by the Social Science Research Network in New York has contended that a re-analysis of the Merkel hypothesis about the distribution of global social expenditure based on 169 countries for which we have recent ILO Social Protection data and World Bank GNI data in real purchasing power reveals that the 27 EU countries with complete data spend only 33% of global world social protection expenditures, while the 13 non-EU-OECD members, among them the major other Western democracies, spend 40% of global social protection expenditures, the BRICS 18% and the Rest of the World 9% of global social protection expenditures. Most probably, the author claims, Merkel's 50% ratio is the product of a mere, simple projection of data for the OECD-member countries onto the world level.[162] Tausch also claims that the data reveal the successful social Keynesianism of the Anglo-Saxon overseas democracies, which are in stark contrast to the savings agenda in the framework of the European "fiscal pact", see .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Tausch, Arno (4 September 2015), Wo Frau Kanzlerin Angela Merkel Irrt: Der Sozialschutz in der Welt, der Anteil Europas und die Beurteilung Seiner Effizienz (Where Chancellor Angela Merkel Got it Wrong: Social Protection in the World, Europe's Share in it and the Assessment of its Efficiency), doi:10.2139/ssrn.2656113, SSRN 2656113
^ Spohr, Kristina (8 July 2017). "The learning machine: Angela Merkel". New Statesman. Archived from the original on 12 January 2018. Retrieved 11 January 2018.
"Life in Communist East Germany was 'almost comfortable' at times, Merkel says"
^ "Kanzlerin Merkel kommt erst wieder zum Finale". Handelsblatt (in German). 23 June 2012. Archived from the original on 27 June 2012. Retrieved 24 March 2013.
^ Camargo, Marcelo (25 January 2014). "Germany chancellor and president to watch final at Maracanã". Agenciabrasil.ebc.com.br. Archived from the original on 14 July 2014. Retrieved 11 July 2014.
^ "Zwei Drittel für volle Amtszeit". n-tv. 11 March 2019. Archived from the original on 26 August 2019. Retrieved 7 August 2019.
Langguth, Gerd (2005). Angela Merkel (in German). Munich: dtv. p. 50. ISBN 3-423-24485-2. Merkel wollte immer mit der Betonung auf dem 'e' Angela genannt werden. (Merkel always wanted her first name pronounced with the stress on the 'e'.)
Merkel advocated a strong transatlantic partnership and German-American friendship. In the spring of 2003, defying strong public opposition, Merkel came out in favour of the 2003 invasion of Iraq, describing it as "unavoidable" and accusing Chancellor Gerhard Schröder of anti-Americanism. She criticised the government's support for the accession of Turkey to the European Union and favoured a "privileged partnership" instead. In doing so, she reflected public opinion that grew more hostile toward Turkish membership of the European Union.[61]
"Deutscher Bundestag – Angela Merkel mit 364 Stimmen zur Bundeskanzlerin gewählt"
"Half of Germans Oppose Fourth Term for Angela Merkel, Survey Finds"
In June 2018, Seehofer backed down from a threat to bypass her in the disagreement over immigration policy until she would come back on 1 July from attempts to find a solution at the European level. On 1 July 2018, Seehofer rejected the agreement Merkel had obtained with EU countries as too little and declared his resignation during a meeting of his party's executive, but they refused to accept it.[122][123][124] During the night of 2 July 2018, Seehofer and Merkel announced they had settled their differences and agreed to instead accept a compromise of tighter border control.[125][126] As a result of the agreement, Seehofer agreed to not resign,[127] and to negotiate bilateral agreements with the specific countries himself. Seehofer was criticised for almost bringing the government down while the monthly number of migrants targeted by that policy was in single figures.
"The World's Most Powerful Women 2018". Forbes. Archived from the original on 18 September 2019. Retrieved 30 December 2018.
^ "Germany's Merkel begins new term". BBC. 28 October 2009. Archived from the original on 31 October 2009. Retrieved 1 November 2009.
"Germany's Merkel begins new term". BBC. 28 October 2009. Archived from the original on 31 October 2009. Retrieved 1 November 2009.
"Merkel to Receive an Honorary Doctorate from the Technion". 6 October 2021. Archived from the original on 20 October 2021. Retrieved 19 October 2021.
In the election of September 2013, Merkel won one of the most decisive victories in German history, achieving the best result for the CDU/CSU since reunification and coming within five seats of the first absolute majority in the Bundestag since 1957.[75] However, their preferred coalition partner, the FDP, failed to enter parliament for the first time since 1949, being below the minimum of 5% of votes required to enter parliament.[18][76]
^ Ervasti, Anu-Elina (7 March 2017). "Angela Merkel vihitään Helsingin yliopiston kunniatohtoriksi". Helsingin Sanomat (in Finnish). Archived from the original on 10 April 2017. Retrieved 30 May 2017.
Marton, Kati. The Chancellor: The Remarkable Odyssey of Angela Merkel (Simon & Schuster, 2021)
Mangold, Max, ed. (1995). Duden, Aussprachewörterbuch (in German) (6th ed.). Dudenverlag. p. 501. ISBN 978-3-411-20916-3. Merkel ˈmɛrkl̩
American Women: Susan Brownmiller / Kathleen Byerly / Alison Cheek / Jill Conway / Betty Ford / Ella Grasso / Carla Hills / Barbara Jordan / Billie Jean King / Susie Sharp / Carol Sutton / Addie Wyatt(1975)
In 2007, Merkel was awarded an honorary doctorate from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.[234]
The term alternativlos (German for "without an alternative"), which was frequently used by Angela Merkel to describe her measures addressing the European sovereign-debt crisis, was named the Un-word of the Year 2010 by a jury of linguistic scholars. The wording was criticised as undemocratic, as any discussion on Merkel's politics would thus be deemed unnecessary or undesirable.[274] The expression is credited for the name of the political party Alternative for Germany, which was founded in 2013.[275]
"Angela Merkel, the girl who never wanted to stand out, to win big again"
Kornelius, Stefan (March 2013). Angela Merkel: Die Kanzlerin und ihre Welt (in German). Hoffmann und Campe. p. 7. ISBN 978-3-455-50291-6.
Fouquet, Helene; Delfs, Arne; and Wingrove, Josh (27 May 2017). "Trump Goes His Own Way as G-7 Cobbles Together an Awkward Truce". Bloomberg. Archived from the original on 27 May 2017. Retrieved 27 May 2017.
Merkel continued her education at Karl Marx University, Leipzig, where she studied physics from 1973 to 1978.[32] While a student, she participated in the reconstruction of the ruin of the Moritzbastei, a project students initiated to create their own club and recreation facility on campus. Such an initiative was unprecedented in the GDR of that period, and initially resisted by the university. With backing of the local leadership of the SED party, the project was allowed to proceed.[41]
Her statement "Islam is part of Germany" during a state visit of the Turkish prime minister Ahmet Davutoğlu in January 2015[282] induced criticism within her party. The parliamentary group leader Volker Kauder said that Islam is not part of Germany and that Muslims should deliberate on the question why so many violent people refer to the Quran.[283]
^ AFP. "Merkel: From austerity queen to 'leader of free world'". www.timesofisrael.com. Archived from the original on 1 October 2018. Retrieved 30 December 2018.
"'SNL' Version of Angela Merkel Is Not Happy Donald Trump Is Time's 'Person of the Year'"
"Zentralrat der Juden kritisiert Seehofer: Debatte ist scheinheilig und hysterisch". Südwestrundfunk (in German). Retrieved 21 October 2010. Wir fühlen uns dem christlichen Menschenbild verbunden, das ist das, was uns ausmacht. Wer das nicht akzeptiert, der ist bei uns fehl am Platz[dead link]
"Angela Merkel draws on science background in Covid-19 explainer: German chancellor excels in describing epidemiological basis of lockdown exit strategy"
"Merkel says her conservatives face hard battle after 16 years in power". Reuters. 9 September 2021. Archived from the original on 9 September 2021. Retrieved 9 September 2021.
"Clinton Says Angela Merkel Is The Most Important Leader in the Free World"
^ "Germany's Angela Merkel slams planned U.S. sanctions on Russia Archived 27 June 2019 at the Wayback Machine". Deutsche Welle. 16 June 2017.
Connolly, Kate (24 November 2017). "Germany's SPD is ready for talks to end coalition deadlock". The Guardian. Berlin. Archived from the original on 24 November 2017. Retrieved 24 November 2017.
Günther Lachmann, Ralf Georg Reuth: Das erste Leben der Angela M. Piper, München 2013, ISBN 978-3-492-05581-9.
^ "German leader Merkel gets Fulbright, stresses cooperation to fight nationalism". 28 January 2019.
^ "China, Germany tight ties will face post-Merkel test". Asia Times. 26 August 2020. Archived from the original on 1 November 2020. Retrieved 23 September 2020.
Merkel is in favour of a "mandatory solidarity mechanism" for relocation of asylum-seekers from Italy and Greece to other EU member states as part of the long-term solution to Europe's migrant crisis.[103][104]
Germany:Grand Cross 1st Class of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany[214]
^ "Germany's future interior minister Horst Seehofer vows to increase deportations". Deusche Welle. 11 March 2018. Archived from the original on 16 March 2018. Retrieved 16 March 2018.
^ Berlin, Oliver Moody (11 July 2019). "Concerns grow as Merkel suffers third bout of shaking". The Times. Archived from the original on 11 July 2019. Retrieved 11 July 2019.
In 2015, with the absence of Stephen Harper, Merkel became the only leader to have attended every G20 meeting since the first in 2008, having been present at a record fifteen summits as of 2021. She hosted the twelfth meeting at the 2017 G20 Hamburg summit.[134]
"Angela Merkel's coalition is in trouble. That means Europe is, too"
Crawford, Alan; Czuczka, Tony (20 September 2013). "Angela Merkel's Years in East Germany Shaped Her Crisis Politics". Bloomberg L.P. Archived from the original on 9 July 2017. Retrieved 29 April 2017.
^ "Merkel becomes German chancellor". BBC News. 22 November 2005. Archived from the original on 9 December 2005.
"Angela Merkel to step down in 2021". BBC News. 29 October 2018. Archived from the original on 29 October 2018. Retrieved 29 October 2018.
^ a b "Bank uncertainty hits UK shares". BBC News. 6 October 2008. Archived from the original on 7 October 2008. Retrieved 6 October 2008.
^ Henley, Jon (28 May 2017). "Angela Merkel: EU cannot completely rely on US and Britain any more". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on 29 May 2017. Retrieved 29 May 2017.
Gibbs, Nancy (9 December 2015). "Why Angela Merkel is TIME's Person of the Year". Archived from the original on 14 July 2018. Retrieved 9 December 2015.
Merkel's approval rating dropped to 54% in October 2015, during the European migrant crisis, the lowest since 2011.[81] According to a poll conducted after terror attacks in Germany Merkel's approval rating dropped to 47% (August 2016).[82] Half of Germans did not want her to serve a fourth term in office compared to 42% in favor.[83] However, according to a poll taken in October 2016, her approval rating had been found to have risen again, 54% of Germans were found to be satisfied with work of Merkel as Chancellor.[84] According to another poll taken in November 2016, 59% were to found to be in favour of a renewed Chancellor candidature of Merkel in 2017.[85] According to a poll carried out just days after the 2016 Berlin truck attack, in which it was asked which political leader(s) Germans trust to solve their country's problems; 56% named Merkel, 39% Seehofer (CSU), 35% Gabriel (SPD), 32% Schulz (SPD), 25% Özdemir (Greens), 20% Wagenknecht (Left Party), 15% Lindner (FDP), and just 10% for Petry (AfD).[86]
"Merkel is under pressure to cut Germany's ties with China as the Hong Kong crisis triggers a European backlash against Beijing"
Gaugele, Jochen; Kammholz, Karsten (27 December 2016). "Flüchtlingskrise wird 2017 die größte Herausforderung" [Refugee crisis to be biggest challenge in 2017]. Berliner Morgenpost (in German). Archived from the original on 23 April 2019. Retrieved 27 December 2016.
"Angela Merkel: Forged in the Old Communist East, Germany's Chancellor-in-Waiting Is Not like the Others"
Grossman, Samantha. "See the Best of Kate McKinnon's Hilarious Angela Merkel Impression". Time. Archived from the original on 30 September 2018. Retrieved 23 January 2017.
"Merkel says German multicultural society has failed". BBC News. 17 October 2010. Archived from the original on 17 October 2010.
^ "Merkel fordert längere Arbeitszeit". Der Spiegel (in German). 18 May 2003. Archived from the original on 13 June 2008. Retrieved 27 August 2011.
"How Close Was Merkel to the Communist System?". Der Spiegel. 14 May 2013. Archived from the original on 10 May 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
^ a b "German Chancellor Angela Merkel makes a hat-trick win in 2013 Elections". Archived from the original on 26 September 2013. Retrieved 23 September 2013.
Volkery, Carsten (3 August 2005). "CDU-Panne: Brutto, netto, Merkel". Der Spiegel. Archived from the original on 5 February 2017. Retrieved 19 May 2017.
"The Green Brief: Merkel's climate 'realpolitik' legacy". Euractiv. 15 September 2021. Archived from the original on 22 October 2021. Retrieved 22 October 2021.
"Angela Merkel shaking: I'm well, she says, despite third incident"
^ Barro, Josh (18 August 2016). "Hillary is America's Merkel, but not in the way Trump thinks". Business Insider. Archived from the original on 22 June 2018. Retrieved 20 December 2016.
Philip Oltermann (27 June 2019). "Angela Merkel seen shaking for second time in just over a week". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 27 June 2019. Retrieved 27 June 2019.
a.s, Petit Press (7 February 2019). "Merkel awarded for developing relations between Slovakia and Germany". spectator.sme.sk. Archived from the original on 8 February 2019. Retrieved 7 February 2019.
"Germany's reluctance to speak out against China". Deutsche Welle. 7 July 2020. Archived from the original on 23 September 2020. Retrieved 23 September 2020.
^ Qvortrup, Matthew (2016). "In the Shadow of the Berlin Wall". Angela Merkel: Europe's Most Influential Leader. The Overlook Press. ISBN 978-1-4683-1408-3.
^ Philip Oltermann (5 April 2017). "The many faces of Angela Merkel: 26 years of photographing the German chancellor". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 20 November 2018. Retrieved 20 November 2018.
^ "Germans welcome thousands of newly arrived refugees". Deutsche Welle. 6 September 2015. Archived from the original on 8 September 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
In 2017, Merkel received the Elie Wiesel Award from the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.[256]
Merkel, Angela (1986). Untersuchung des Mechanismus von Zerfallsreaktionen mit einfachem Bindungsbruch und Berechnung ihrer Geschwindigkeitskonstanten auf der Grundlage quantenchemischer und statistischer Methoden (Investigation of the mechanism of decay reactions with single bond breaking and calculation of their rate constants on the basis of quantum chemical and statistical methods) (in German). Berlin: Academy of Sciences of the German Democratic Republic (dissertation). cited in Langguth, Gerd (August 2005). Angela Merkel (in German). Munich: DTV. p. 109. ISBN 3-423-24485-2. and listed in the Catalogue of the Deutsche Nationalbibliothek under subject code 30 (Chemistry).
"Germany: Interior minister gives Merkel ultimatum on migrants". www.aljazeera.com. Archived from the original on 30 November 2021. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
4Chancellor of Germany, 2005–2021											Toggle Chancellor of Germany, 2005–2021 subsection																					4.1First CDU–SPD grand coalition, 2005–2009																											4.2CDU–FDP coalition, 2009–2013																											4.3Second CDU–SPD grand coalition 2013–2017																											4.4Third CDU–SPD grand coalition, 2018–2021
^ "The Sarrazin Debate: Germany Is Becoming Islamophobic". Der Spiegel. Archived from the original on 17 September 2011. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
"Sensible talks urged by Merkel to restore trust with US". Germany News.Net. Archived from the original on 28 July 2014. Retrieved 18 July 2014.
^ Clarke, Hilary (30 October 2018). "For years, Angela Merkel saw off all challengers. Now, she's preparing to step aside". CNN. Archived from the original on 30 December 2018. Retrieved 30 December 2018.
^ Max Bearak (29 March 2017). "Decades of yearly portraits show how power has transformed Angela Merkel". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on 21 December 2018. Retrieved 20 November 2018.
^ "Germany migrants: Key Merkel ally Seehofer threatens to quit". BBC News. 2 July 2018. Archived from the original on 19 September 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
^ "Pressemitteilung 2008/106 der Universität Leipzig" (in German). Universität Leipzig. 20 May 2008. Archived from the original on 20 December 2008. Retrieved 2 March 2010.
^ "Angela Merkel 'world's most powerful woman'". The Daily Telegraph. London. 24 August 2011. Archived from the original on 15 June 2018. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
"German Chancellor Merkel to Receive Museum's 2017 Elie Wiesel Award"
In July 2019, the UN ambassadors from 22 nations, including Germany, signed a joint letter to the UNHRC condemning China's mistreatment of the Uyghurs as well as its mistreatment of other minority groups, urging the Chinese government to close the Xinjiang re-education camps.[148]
^ "Chancellor Angela Merkel Receives Global Leadership Award". Archived from the original on 21 July 2011. Retrieved 18 December 2013.
In October 2010, Merkel told a meeting of younger members of her conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU) party at Potsdam that attempts to build a multicultural society in Germany had "utterly failed,"[99] stating that: "The concept that we are now living side by side and are happy about it" does not work[100] and "we feel attached to the Christian concept of mankind, that is what defines us. Anyone who doesn't accept that is in the wrong place here."[101] She continued to say that immigrants should integrate and adopt Germany's culture and values. This has added to a growing debate within Germany[102] on the levels of immigration, its effect on Germany and the degree to which Muslim immigrants have integrated into German society.
^ Marton, Kati (19 May 2019). "The Merkel Model". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 20 May 2019. Retrieved 21 May 2019.
^ Krech, Eva-Maria; Stock, Eberhard; Hirschfeld, Ursula; Anders, Lutz Christian;et al., eds. (2009). Deutsches Aussprachewörterbuch (1st ed.). Walter de Gruyter. p. 739. ISBN 978-3-11-018202-6. Merkel mˈɛʶkl̩
"Germany's SPD, FDP and Greens unveil governing coalition deal | DW | 24.11.2021"
Langguth, Gerd (August 2005) [2005]. Angela Merkel (in German). Munich: DTV. pp. 112–137. ISBN 3-423-24485-2.
^ Staudenmaier, Rebecca (15 June 2017). "Germany's nuclear phase-out explained". DW. Archived from the original on 24 August 2020. Retrieved 27 July 2019.
The decisions of Chancellor Angela Merkel in 2015 on migration policies
Midway through her second term, Merkel's approval plummeted in Germany, resulting in heavy losses in state elections for her party.[78] An August 2011 poll found her coalition had only 36% support compared to a rival potential coalition's 51%.[79] However, she scored well on her handling of the recent euro crisis (69% rated her performance as good rather than poor), and her approval rating reached an all-time high of 77% in February 2012 and again in July 2014.[80]
^ "Opposition meltdown: The great disintegration act". Der Spiegel. 22 October 2004. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017. Retrieved 28 November 2015.
"German election ends in stalemate". BBC. 19 September 2005. Archived from the original on 18 March 2017. Retrieved 5 May 2017.
In 2006, Merkel expressed concern about overreliance on Russian energy, but she received little support from others in Berlin.[149]
^ "Zayed order for Merkel". 26 May 2010. Retrieved 13 January 2022.
Whitlock, Craig (6 October 2008). "Germany to guarantee Private Bank Accounts". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on 10 January 2014. Retrieved 6 October 2008.
^ "Merkel says German multicultural society has failed". BBC News. 17 October 2010. Archived from the original on 17 October 2010.
^ a b Delcker, Janosch (23 September 2015). "Viktor Orbán, Bavaria's hardline hero". Politico. Archived from the original on 19 January 2018. Retrieved 10 January 2016.
^ Buergin, Rainer (2 October 2015). "Merkel Approval Rating Drops to Four-Year Low on Refugee Crisis". Bloomberg. Archived from the original on 7 March 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
^ Grossman, Samantha. "See the Best of Kate McKinnon's Hilarious Angela Merkel Impression". Time. Archived from the original on 30 September 2018. Retrieved 23 January 2017.
"Germany's Merkel makes deal with interior minister on migration dispute"
"Angela Merkel: The Unexpected – Angela Merkel – Die Unerwartete (2016) (In Dutch)"
Merkel is a fervent football fan and has been known to listen to games while in the Bundestag and to attend games of the national team in her official capacity, including Germany's 1–0 victory against Argentina in the 2014 World Cup Final.[201][202][203] Merkel stated that her favorite movie is The Legend of Paul and Paula, an East German movie released in 1973.[204]
"Biographie: Angela Merkel, geb. 1954". DHM. Archived from the original on 25 February 2009. Retrieved 2 March 2010.
"Koning Filip reikt Grootlint in de Leopoldsorde uit aan Angela Merkel". 11 October 2021. Archived from the original on 29 October 2021. Retrieved 15 October 2021.
Qvortrup, Matthew (2016). Angela Merkel: Europe's Most Influential Leader. The Overlook Press. ISBN 978-1-4683-1408-3.
^ a b c d Packer, George (1 December 2014). "The Astonishing Rise of Angela Merkel". The New Yorker. Archived from the original on 9 December 2014. Retrieved 30 April 2017.
^ Le Blond, Josie (29 October 2018). "German chancellor Angela Merkel will not seek re-election in 2021". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 17 December 2020. Retrieved 29 October 2018.
^ Connolly, Kate; Wintour, Patrick (4 April 2022). "Pressure mounts on German ministers to embargo Russian energy". The Guardian. Retrieved 4 April 2022.
Saalfeld, Thomas. "Coalition Governance under Chancellor Merkel's Grand Coalition: A Comparison of the Cabinets Merkel I and Merkel II." German Politics and Society 28.3 (2010): 82–102.
^ Holehouse, Matthew; Huggler, Justin; Vogt, Andrea (24 August 2015). "Germany drops EU rules to allow in Syrian refugees". The Telegraph. Archived from the original on 12 June 2017. Retrieved 16 June 2017.
Werner, Reutter (1 December 2005). "Who's Afraid of Angela Merkel?: The Life, Political Career, and Future of the New German Chancellor". International Journal. 61. Archived from the original on 28 April 2017. Retrieved 28 April 2017.
Barry Turner (ed.) The Statesman's Yearbook 2015: The Politics, Cultures and Economies of the World, Springer 2014 p. 516
^ Roberts, Rachel (23 January 2017). "Germany has 'given up' on Donald Trump acting like a President". The Independent. Archived from the original on 13 March 2019. Retrieved 24 August 2017.
"Image of people putting sash on Angela Merkel". Archived from the original on 7 August 2017.[unreliable source?]
^ "Hunderte Millionen gegen die Flucht". Der Spiegel. 10 October 2016. Archived from the original on 12 October 2016. Retrieved 13 October 2016.
"Angela Merkel – 50 People Who Matter 2010". Archived from the original on 2 October 2010. Retrieved 29 September 2010.
Patterson, Tony (17 November 2015). "Angela Merkel's journey from Communist East Germany to Chancellor". The Independent. Archived from the original on 19 April 2017. Retrieved 19 April 2017.
In 2022, Angela Merkel wins Félix Houphouët-Boigny Peace Prize[259] and Nansen Refugee Award[260] for her efforts to welcome refugees.
^ Langguth, Gerd (August 2005). Angela Merkel. DTV (in German). p. 10. ISBN 3-423-24485-2.
"Merkel beim Besuch von Obama: Das Netz lacht über Merkels "Internet-Neuland""
Nikolaus Blome: Angela Merkel – Die Zauderkünstlerin. Pantheon, München 2013, ISBN 978-3-570-55201-8.
Junior coalition partner, Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel said that Germany could take in 500,000 refugees annually for the next several years.[106] German opposition to the government's admission of the new wave of migrants was strong and coupled with a rise in anti-immigration protests.[107] Merkel insisted that Germany had the economic strength to cope with the influx of migrants and reiterated that there is no legal maximum limit on the number of migrants Germany can take.[108] In September 2015, enthusiastic crowds across the country welcomed arriving refugees and migrants.[109]
Kornelius, Stefan. Angela Merkel: The Chancellor and Her World: The Authorized Biography (Alma Books, 2014).
"Merkel becomes German chancellor". BBC News. 22 November 2005. Archived from the original on 9 December 2005.
Deutsche Welle documentary about Merkel's term in office by Deutsche Welle (in English).
^ Risen, Clay (5 July 2005). "Is Angela Merkel the next Maggie Thatcher?". Slate. Archived from the original on 28 April 2009.
^ Penfold, Chuck (30 October 2009). "Merkel's new cabinet sworn in". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 1 June 2010. Retrieved 1 November 2009.
"Award for Danish Muhammad Cartoonist: Merkel Defends Press Freedom, Condemns Koran-Burning"
^ a b "Award for Danish Muhammad Cartoonist: Merkel Defends Press Freedom, Condemns Koran-Burning". Der Spiegel. Archived from the original on 16 September 2011. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
Saunders, Doug (14 September 2005). "Popular flat-tax movement hits brick wall in Germany". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on 6 March 2016. Retrieved 28 November 2015.
"China Is Merkel's Biggest Failure in Office". Foreign Policy. 15 September 2020. Archived from the original on 26 September 2020. Retrieved 23 September 2020.
"I Was a Squatter, Reveals German Chancellor Merkel". Deutsche Welle. 28 February 2008. Archived from the original on 8 March 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
In November 2015, there were talks inside the governing coalition to stop family unification for migrants for two years, and to establish "Transit Zones" on the border and – for migrants with low chances to get asylum approved – to be housed there until their application is approved. The issues are in conflict between the CSU who favoured those new measures and threatened to leave the coalition without them, and the SPD who opposes them; Merkel agreed to the measures.[114] The November 2015 Paris attacks prompted a reevaluation of German officials' stance on the EU's policy toward migrants.[115] There appeared to be a consensus among officials, with the exception of Merkel, that a higher level of scrutiny was needed in vetting migrants with respect to their mission in Germany.[115] However, while not officially limiting the influx numerically, Merkel tightened asylum policy in Germany.[116]
"Bundesverdienstkreuz für Merkel". Tagesschau (in German). Archived from the original on 21 September 2010. Retrieved 21 September 2010.
"Bundeskanzlerin Merkel ohne fertige Antworten in Templin". Archived from the original on 23 November 2016. Retrieved 1 December 2015.
^ "List of the Recipients of the Jawaharlal Nehru Award". Indian Council for Cultural Relations. 2014. Archived from the original on 15 August 2016. Retrieved 13 August 2016.
Merkel was born Angela Dorothea Kasner in 1954, in Hamburg, West Germany, the daughter of Horst Kasner (1926–2011; né Kaźmierczak),[22][23] a Lutheran pastor and a native of Berlin, and his wife Herlind (1928–2019; née Jentzsch), born in Danzig (now Gdańsk, Poland), a teacher of English and Latin. She has two younger siblings, Marcus Kasner, a physicist, and Irene Kasner, an occupational therapist. In her childhood and youth, Merkel was known among her peers by the nickname "Kasi", derived from her last name Kasner.[24]
^ "Angela Merkel named Harvard Commencement speaker". news.harvard.edu. 7 December 2018. Archived from the original on 27 May 2019. Retrieved 27 May 2019.
"List of the Recipients of the Jawaharlal Nehru Award". Indian Council for Cultural Relations. 2014. Archived from the original on 15 August 2016. Retrieved 13 August 2016.
Connor, Richard (8 September 2010). "Merkel defends 'Muhammad' cartoonist, condemns Koran-burning". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 7 April 2015. Retrieved 2 May 2014.
"More than 20 ambassadors condemn China's treatment of Uighurs in Xinjiang". The Guardian. 11 July 2019. Archived from the original on 14 July 2019. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
Parkin, Brian; Suess, Oliver (6 October 2008). "Hypo Real Gets EU50 Billion Government-Led Bailout". Bloomberg. Archived from the original on 22 October 2012. Retrieved 6 October 2008.
Islam, Faisal (18 November 2016). "Baton of global leadership passes from US to Germany". Sky News. Archived from the original on 8 November 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.
Since 2017 Merkel has been seen and filmed to shake visibly on several public occasions, recovering shortly afterwards.[206][207][208] After one such occasion she attributed the shaking to dehydration, saying that she felt better after a drink of water.[209] After three occasions where this happened in June 2019, she began to sit down during the performances of the national anthems during the State visits of Mette Frederiksen and Maia Sandu the following month.
"Ich will, dass Angela Merkel Kanzlerin bleibt". Der Spiegel (online). 11 March 2019. Archived from the original on 19 March 2019. Retrieved 5 April 2019.
Merkel has a fear of dogs after being attacked by one in 1995.[205] Vladimir Putin brought in his Labrador Retriever during a press conference in 2007. Putin claims he did not mean to scare her, though Merkel later observed, "I understand why he has to do this – to prove he's a man. ... He's afraid of his own weakness."[205]
In 1968, Merkel joined the Free German Youth (FDJ), the official communist youth movement sponsored by the ruling Marxist–Leninist Socialist Unity Party of Germany.[33][34][35] Membership was nominally voluntary, but those who did not join found it difficult to gain admission to higher education.[36] She did not participate in the secular coming-of-age ceremony Jugendweihe, however, which was common in East Germany. Instead, she was confirmed.[37] During this time, she participated in several compulsory courses on Marxism–Leninism, with her grades only being regarded as "sufficient".[38] Merkel later said that "Life in the GDR was sometimes almost comfortable in a certain way, because there were some things one simply couldn't influence."[39]
^ Krauel, Torsten (13 March 2013). "Ahnenforschung: Kanzlerin Angela Merkel ist zu einem Viertel Polin". Die Welt (in German). Archived from the original on 10 September 2018. Retrieved 18 November 2016.
Suckert, Wolfgang (17 July 2014). "Wie Angela Merkel beinahe Thüringerin wurde". Thüringer Allgemeine (in German). Archived from the original on 1 June 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
^ "Merkel says her conservatives face hard battle after 16 years in power". Reuters. 9 September 2021. Archived from the original on 9 September 2021. Retrieved 9 September 2021.
"China, Germany tight ties will face post-Merkel test". Asia Times. 26 August 2020. Archived from the original on 1 November 2020. Retrieved 23 September 2020.
After Stoiber's defeat in 2002, in addition to her role as CDU Leader, Merkel became Leader of the Opposition in the Bundestag; Friedrich Merz, who had held the post prior to the 2002 election, was eased out to make way for Merkel. Stoiber voted for Merkel.[57]
"Russell among 15 Presidential Medal of Freedom honorees". National Basketball Association. 18 November 2010. Archived from the original on 20 November 2010. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
^ "Angela Merkel sets off for China to forge new economic ties". Herald Globe. Archived from the original on 14 July 2014. Retrieved 5 July 2014.
^ Cashman, Greer Fay (25 February 2014). "President Peres awards Germany's Merkel Medal of Distinction". The Jerusalem Post. Archived from the original on 25 February 2014.
"Angela Merkel awarded the 2022 Unesco Peace Prize for her efforts to welcome refugees"
In October 2020, Merkel was awarded an honorary doctorate from The Technion - Israel Institute of Technology.[243]
"Anna Katarina – IMDb". IMDb. Archived from the original on 3 June 2019. Retrieved 14 February 2019.
Members of the Bundestag for the Christian Democratic Union of Germany
^ Walsh, Alistair; Goldenberg, Rina (7 June 2022). "Angela Merkel opens up on Ukraine, Putin and her legacy". Deutsche Welle.
The English pronunciation of her first name could be /ˈɑːŋɡələ, ˈæŋ-/ (of which the former is a closer approximation of the German). The English pronunciation of her last name is either /ˈmɛərkəl/ or /ˈmɜːrkəl/ (pronunciation respelling MAIR-kəl, MUR-kəl), of which only the former is reported for American English (and is a closer approximation of the German) and only the latter is reported for British English by the Oxford and Merriam-Webster dictionaries, which base their editing on actual usage, not recommendations.[2][3][4] In German, her last name is pronounced [ˈmɛʁkl̩],[5][6] and her first name is pronounced [ˈaŋɡela] or [aŋˈɡeːla],[7] but according to her biographer Langguth, Merkel prefers the pronunciation with stress on the second syllable[8] ([aŋˈɡeːla] with a long /eː/).
"Angela Merkel shaking: I'm well, she says, despite third incident". BBC News. 10 July 2019. Archived from the original on 10 July 2019. Retrieved 11 July 2019.
In 2010, New Statesman named Merkel as one of "The World's 50 Most Influential Figures".[249]
^ "Life in Communist East Germany was 'almost comfortable' at times, Merkel says". Reuters. 8 November 2019. Archived from the original on 11 November 2019. Retrieved 14 November 2019.
^ "World prefers Angela Merkel to Donald Trump: Pew study". Deutsche Welle. 2 October 2018. Archived from the original on 27 May 2021. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
On the American sketch-comedy Saturday Night Live, she has been parodied by Kate McKinnon since 2013.[304][305][306]
^ Donahue, Patrick (28 May 2017). "Merkel Signals New Era for Europe as Trump Smashes Consensus". Bloomberg.com. Archived from the original on 29 May 2017. Retrieved 29 May 2017.
"For years, Angela Merkel saw off all challengers. Now, she's preparing to step aside"
"Klitschko, Merkel discuss prospects for signing EU-Ukraine association agreement". Kyiv Post. Interfax-Ukraine. 5 December 2012. Archived from the original on 5 December 2012.
"Germany's Angela Merkel declares 'yes, I am a feminist'". Deutsche Welle. 9 September 2021. Archived from the original on 8 September 2021. Retrieved 9 September 2021.
Turner, Zeke; Fairless, Tom (28 August 2016). "Half of Germans Oppose Fourth Term for Angela Merkel, Survey Finds". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on 28 August 2016. Retrieved 29 August 2016.
Smagge, Patricia (2016). "Angela Merkel: The Unexpected – Angela Merkel – Die Unerwartete (2016) (In Dutch)". cinemagazine.nl. Archived from the original on 20 September 2017. Retrieved 20 September 2017.
Margaret Heckel: So regiert die Kanzlerin. Eine Reportage. Piper, München 2009, ISBN 978-3-492-05331-0.
"Germany's future interior minister Horst Seehofer vows to increase deportations"
Mushaben, Joyce Marie. "A Spectre Haunting Europe: Angela Merkel and the Challenges of Far-Right Populism." German Politics and Society 38.1 (2020): 7-29.
^ "Social Expenditure Database (SOCX)". OECD. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
"Hillary Clinton jabs Donald Trump on Angela Merkel's last day: 'Leader of the free world for 4 years'"
Packer, George (1 December 2014). "The Quiet German". The New Yorker: 46–63. Archived from the original on 9 December 2014. Retrieved 9 December 2014. The article describes Angela Merkel's life and career in East Germany and her subsequent rise to Chancellor of Germany following German reunification.
^ "Scopus – Author search results". scopus.com. Retrieved 9 December 2020.
In June 2008, she was awarded an honorary doctorate from Leipzig University.[235]
^ Merkels Lehre aus dem Griechenland-Drama Archived 13 December 2020 at the Wayback Machine, (Merkel's learnings from the Greek drama) orf.at, 12 December 2012.
^ "Angela Merkel receiving honour". Archived from the original on 8 August 2017.[unreliable source?]
^ "Angela Merkel awarded top UN refugee prize, for aid to Syrians fleeing war". UN News. 4 October 2022. Retrieved 11 October 2022.
Crawford, Alan; Czuczka, Tony (12 June 2013). Angela Merkel: A Chancellorship Forged in Crisis. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-1-118-64109-5.
^ "Angela Merkel on Ukraine, Putin and her legacy". DW News. YouTube. 7 June 2022.
^ Klatell, James M (9 August 2006). "Germany's First Fella, Angela Merkel Is Germany's Chancellor; But Her Husband Stays Out of the Spotlight". CBS News. Archived from the original on 10 August 2006. Retrieved 2 March 2010.
Merkel supported a substantial reform agenda for Germany's economic and social system, and was considered more pro-market than her own party (the CDU). She advocated German labour law changes, specifically removing barriers to laying off employees and increasing the allowed number of work hours in a week. She argued that existing laws made the country less competitive, because companies could not easily control labour costs when business is slow.[58]
^ "Merkel hints at return to academia after politics". Reuters. 31 August 2019. Archived from the original on 1 September 2019. Retrieved 1 September 2019.
^ Merkel, Angela (1986). Untersuchung des Mechanismus von Zerfallsreaktionen mit einfachem Bindungsbruch und Berechnung ihrer Geschwindigkeitskonstanten auf der Grundlage quantenchemischer und statistischer Methoden (Investigation of the mechanism of decay reactions with single bond breaking and calculation of their rate constants on the basis of quantum chemical and statistical methods) (in German). Berlin: Academy of Sciences of the German Democratic Republic (dissertation). cited in Langguth, Gerd (August 2005). Angela Merkel (in German). Munich: DTV. p. 109. ISBN 3-423-24485-2. and listed in the Catalogue of the Deutsche Nationalbibliothek under subject code 30 (Chemistry).
^ "Universitatea Babes-Bolyai". Web.ubbcluj.ro. Archived from the original on 2 September 2011. Retrieved 18 April 2011.
The Guardians: Jamal Khashoggi / Maria Ressa / Wa Lone / Kyaw Soe Oo / Staff of The Capital
"Picturing the Family: Media, Narrative, Memory | Research". Archived from the original on 1 May 2017. Retrieved 11 February 2017.
Hill, Jenny (30 July 2013). "Immigration fuels rising tension in Germany". BBC. Archived from the original on 19 August 2015. Retrieved 18 August 2015.
^ "Schroeder wins second term". CNN. 23 September 2002. Archived from the original on 23 March 2018. Retrieved 18 May 2021.
"Merkel Losing Her Patience with Lack of EU Solidarity". Der Spiegel. 18 September 2020. Archived from the original on 24 September 2020. Retrieved 23 September 2020.
University of Technology in Wrocław (Poland) in September 2008[236] and Babeș-Bolyai University from Cluj-Napoca, Romania on 12 October 2010 for her historical contribution to the European unification and for her global role in renewing international cooperation.[237][238][239]
In March 2008, she received the B'nai B'rith Europe Award of Merit.[247]
^ "Angela Merkel faces outright rebellion within her own party over refugee crisis". The Telegraph. Archived from the original on 25 January 2019. Retrieved 24 January 2016.
^ "Merkel calls Sudeten German expulsion "immoral", drawing Czech ire". Czech Radio. 21 June 2018. Archived from the original on 30 November 2021. Retrieved 22 June 2018.
Weiland, Severin (30 May 2005). "Kohls unterschätztes Mädchen" [Kohl's Underestimated Girl]. Der Spiegel (in German). Archived from the original on 18 July 2009. Retrieved 19 August 2011.
On 30 May 2005, Merkel won the CDU/CSU nomination as challenger to Chancellor Gerhard Schröder of the SPD in the 2005 national elections. Her party began the campaign with a 21-point lead over the SPD in national opinion polls, although her personal popularity lagged behind that of the incumbent. However, the CDU/CSU campaign suffered[62] when Merkel, having made economic competence central to the CDU's platform, confused gross and net income twice during a televised debate.[63] She regained some momentum after she announced that she would appoint Paul Kirchhof, a former judge at the German Constitutional Court and leading fiscal policy expert, as Minister of Finance.[62]
Smale, Alison; Erlanger, Steven (12 November 2016). "As Obama Exits World Stage, Angela Merkel May Be the Liberal West's Last Defender". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 27 May 2019. Retrieved 18 July 2019.
^ Qvortrup, Matthew (2016). Angela Merkel: Europe's Most Influential Leader. The Overlook Press. ISBN 978-1-4683-1408-3.
In December 2015, she was named Time magazine's Person of the Year.[254]
Welle (www.dw.com), Deutsche. "Germany's SPD, FDP and Greens unveil governing coalition deal | DW | 24.11.2021". DW.COM. Archived from the original on 25 November 2021. Retrieved 25 November 2021.
Wo Frau Kanzlerin Angela Merkel Irrt: Der Sozialschutz in der Welt, der Anteil Europas und die Beurteilung Seiner Effizienz (Where Chancellor Angela Merkel Got it Wrong: Social Protection in the World, Europe's Share in it and the Assessment of its Efficiency)
"Germany has 'given up' on Donald Trump acting like a President"
Luxembourg:Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (18 October 2021)
"Angela Merkel named Harvard Commencement speaker". news.harvard.edu. 7 December 2018. Archived from the original on 27 May 2019. Retrieved 27 May 2019.
Harding, Luke (11 July 2005). "Merkel unveils tax-raising manifesto". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on 2 October 2017. Retrieved 7 May 2017.
"Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer: Favourite to replace Merkel stands down". BBC News. 10 February 2020. Archived from the original on 11 February 2020. Retrieved 17 March 2020.
"Germany's First Fella, Angela Merkel Is Germany's Chancellor; But Her Husband Stays Out of the Spotlight"
"Profile Angela Merkel". Forbes. 18 April 2012. Archived from the original on 25 May 2019. Retrieved 11 September 2012.
^ "The German chancellor's Polish roots". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 3 May 2013.
Following Merkel's election as CDU Leader, the CDU was not able to win in subsequent state elections. As early as February 2001 her rival Friedrich Merz had made clear he intended to become Chancellor Gerhard Schröder's main challenger in the 2002 election. Merkel's own ambition to become Chancellor was well-known, but she lacked the support of most Minister-presidents and other grandees within her own party. She was subsequently outmaneuvered politically by CSU Leader Edmund Stoiber, to whom she eventually ceded the privilege of challenging Schröder.[55] He went on to squander a large lead in opinion polls to lose the election by a razor-thin margin in an election campaign that was dominated by the Iraq War. While Chancellor Schröder made clear he would not join the war in Iraq,[56] Merkel and the CDU-CSU supported the invasion of Iraq.
3Early political career											Toggle Early political career subsection																					3.1German reunification, 1989–1991																											3.2Minister for Women and Youth, 1991–1994																											3.3Minister for Environment, 1994–1998																											3.4General Secretary of the CDU, 1998–2000																											3.5Chairperson of the CDU, 2000–2018																											3.6Leader of the Opposition, 2002–2005																								3.6.1Some successes																											3.6.22005 national election
Schoen, Harald, and Robert Greszki. "A Third Term for a Popular Chancellor: An Analysis of Voting Behaviour in the 2013 German Federal Election." German Politics 23.4 (2014): 251–267.
BBC: Germany's Central Muslim Council (Zentralrat der Muslime in Deutschland) criticised Mrs. Merkel for attending the award ceremony. 8 September 2010. A ZMD spokesman, Aiman Mazyek, told public broadcaster Deutschlandradio that the Chancellor was honouring someone "who in our eyes kicked our prophet, and therefore kicked all Muslims". He said giving Mr Westergaard the prize in a "highly charged and heated time" was "highly problematic".
Find sources: "Political opportunism" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Political opportunism is interpreted in different ways, but usually refers to one or more of the following:
The counter-argument to this interpretation is that politicians may start out in their career as hopeful idealists aiming to serve the community, but as soon as they become deeply entangled in political processes, they abandon their high ideals because they must reconcile many contradictory situations, and in the process begin to compromise themselves. Their political position, originally a means to a higher end, becomes an end in itself: a lifestyle.
^ Inaugural speech of the thirty-fifth President of the United States,Washington, D.C., January 20, 1961, reprinted in Profiles in Courage (1961, reprinted Harper/Collins, 2006)
Few actions are intrinsically opportunist; they are opportunist in a specific context, or from a specific point of view about means-ends relationships involved. This may make an objective approach to assessing the presence of opportunism quite difficult, because it may require a lot of "inside knowledge" about the relevant circumstances and about the motives involved.
This page was last edited on 2 July 2022, at 06:57 (UTC).
How political principles are to be implemented is therefore usually open to some interpretation, and in part a personal responsibility. This creates the possibility that the same action is justifiable with reference to different principles, or that how a principle should be put into practice is interpreted in different ways. Just how "principled" an action is may therefore be open to dispute.[16] Hence there is potential for deception in the way that principled behaviour, and deviation from it, is understood and justified. This becomes critically important in understanding opportunism insofar as it is a departure from principled behaviour.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Political opportunism" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
A political tendency that has been outmaneuvered or side-lined may latch on to any kind of opportunity to claw its way back to a position of power and influence. Conversely, a very powerful political group may use its power for opportunistic purposes because it knows that criticism of such action has no real effect (it is possible to "get away with it", i.e. the permissible).
The political philosophy of Niccolò Machiavelli as described in The Prince is often regarded as a classic manual of opportunist scheming, and indeed a Machiavellian is nowadays defined as "a cunning, amoral, and opportunist person, especially a politician".[2]
^ E.g. As'ad AbuKhalil, "Yusuf Al-Qaradawi and Political Opportunism". Al Alakhbar English, 28 March 2012.[6] Archived 2014-02-09 at the Wayback Machine
Often the opportunist operates in a situation where there exist many unknowns, and where there is no broad agreement on how one should respond to the situation in a principled way.[12] Far-sighted leadership is required, but in the absence of authoritative knowledge. In that case, whether behaviour is opportunist or not, may simply be very difficult to judge. A true opportunist is likely to utilize precisely this ambiguity to serve his purpose, capitalizing on human gullibility or ignorance.
Normally, there must be at least some freedom in how political principles are formulated, interpreted, and actually applied; if there are too many rules and principles that people have to adhere to, the result would very likely be, that they simply cannot conform to those principles in practice, or that the bewildering complexity of rules can no longer guide behaviour. In that case, all kinds of errors are likely to occur.
it is easy to get excited about the possibilities of the future but the main priority should be to make decisions based on the reality, about what is happening currently and keeping a close eye on the facts. If today is not managed well, our dreams, visions and thoughts about the future will become stifled. When one does not commit to what is done but instead treats what ought to be done as ones own course, then one sooner brings one's own ruin rather than preservation.[4]
^ "NEVER BRING OTHERS TO POWER The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
"Press Accuracy Rating Hits Two Decade Low; Public Evaluations of the News Media: 1985-2009". Pew Research Center for the People & the Press, press release 13 September 2009.[9]
It becomes difficult or impossible to explain why a political policy was really opted for and followed,or what can justify it, or why what was done, was done. Political appraisals begin to look arbitrary, relativistic and subjective. And that promotes a growing discrepancy between the motives political actors said they had, and their real motives—which breeds cynicism, loss of purpose, lack of accountability, and the loss of the aspiration to work for political ideals.
^ "Press Accuracy Rating Hits Two Decade Low; Public Evaluations of the News Media: 1985-2009". Pew Research Center for the People & the Press, press release 13 September 2009.[9]
"NEVER BRING OTHERS TO POWER The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli"
"DESTROY, DO NOT WOUND The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
An objective, rational evaluation of whether a course of action is opportunist or not can only be stated in terms of whether the action and its motivation really did, or did not represent relevant principles (a consistency of means and ends); or whether it was motivated by self-interest or sectional interests rather than the common interest of the party (or parties) represented. Yet insofar as allegations of opportunism reflect a moral judgment, they may also contain a subjective interpretation, emotional preference or partisan viewpoint.[19]
^ E.g. Chris Arsenault, "Nicaragua's Ortega: Socialism to opportunism?". Al Jazeera English, 8 November 2011.[7]
Populism: this is often regarded as an intrinsically opportunist and unprincipled form of politics, catering to the "lowest common denominator". In that case, politicians advocate policies primarily on the basis that they think a lot of people will support them (and therefore useful to maintain or increase support), or that if a particular leader endorses policies, people will follow because they believe in the leader, even regardless of whether the policies are consistent with principles.
^ "BE PRESENT The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
Money-Based Versus Exchange-Rate-Based Stabilization: Is There Space for Political Opportunism?
"The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule"
Opportunistic behavior may occur in strategic alliances, in which one party uses the relationship to better its position, often at the expense of the other. In this case, one party puts its own interests ahead of the agreed goals of the alliance.
Marc Tracy, "Congress cuts P.A. aid; 'political opportunism'". Tablet, 4 October 2011.[8]
David Brooks, "The upside of opportunism". New York Times, 29 October 2012, p. A27.
E.g. As'ad AbuKhalil, "Yusuf Al-Qaradawi and Political Opportunism". Al Alakhbar English, 28 March 2012.[6] Archived 2014-02-09 at the Wayback Machine
a trend of thought, or a political tendency, seeking to make political capital out of situations with the main aim being that of gaining more influence, prestige or support, instead of truly winning people over to a principled position or improving their political understanding.
Inaugural speech of the thirty-fifth President of the United States,Washington, D.C., January 20, 1961, reprinted in Profiles in Courage (1961, reprinted Harper/Collins, 2006)
"In this world, laws are written for the lofty aim of "the common good", and then acted out in life on the basis of the common greed. In this world, irrationality clings to man like his shadow, so that the right things are done for the wrong reasons — afterwards, we dredge up the right reasons for justification."[18]
"Power corrupts, but its real corruption is among those who wait upon it, seeking place, jostling with rivals, nursing jealousies, forming expedient cabals, flaunting preferment, crowing at the humiliation of a demoted favourite." – John Keegan, The mask of command. Penguin edition, 1988, p. 89.
Normally principles are therefore understood as a guide to behaviour that assumes both some freedom for individual judgment about how they are to be applied, as well as the responsibility to apply them. If one acts "in good faith", one assumes that relevant principles will be honored in practice, and if that faith is disappointed, that is because in practice the principles were not applied consistently or appropriately.
the practice of abandoning or compromising in reality some important political principles that were previously held, in the process of trying to increase one's political power and influence.
"NEVER BRING OTHERS TO POWER The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
Since the majority could be quite wrong in regard to particular issues, however, adapting to that majority opinion on those issues might, in a specific context, be an even bigger error than "keeping one's principles pure". This is acknowledged in democratic theory to the extent that democracy is normally thought to involve the civil right of dissent from majority opinion, and consequently also the civil right of a minority viewpoint to exist. It implies that the majority could be wrong, and that the minority could be right, something that could never be corrected efficiently, if minority viewpoints were simply silenced. Because in that case, the minority might not be able to become a majority, even if experience proved the minority correct. That is why it is especially important to evaluate criticisms of "opportunism" in context.
Continual political opportunism ultimately reduces the scope of politics to a visionless realpolitik or a barren pragmatism that may only function to maintain the status quo, and in which people deceive themselves about their own motivations and those of others. This makes life even more difficult for politicians, in their attempt to persuade people to work together for common goals. According to journalist Adam Nagourney, "Many Americans are more likely to assume that anyone they read or see on television has a political bias."[21] Yet what that bias is, might not be obvious anymore. In 2009, a Pew Research Center survey found that only 29% of Americans believe that the media "gets the facts straight" and only 18% thought that media stories "deal fairly with all sides".[22]
To some extent, politics unavoidably involves dilemmas about whether to insist on one's own principles (and risk being isolated) or to adapt to a more widely held opinion for the sake of working together. People may be very unwilling to take risks and respond to opportunities, or they may take risks and opportunities without much regard for their overall significance. Accordingly, most political situations involve at least some potential for opportunism.
^ See Robert Michels, Political Parties. New York: Dover, 1959, chapter 3, and Ernest Mandel, "What is the bureaucracy?", in: Tariq Ali (ed.), The Stalinist Legacy. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1984, p. 61-62).
The term "political opportunism" is often used in a pejorative sense, mainly because it connotes the abandonment of principles or compromising political goals.[14] In that case, the original relationship between means and ends is lost. It may indeed be the case that means become ends in themselves, or that the ends become the means to achieve goals quite different from what was originally intended.[15] Political principles can also be "diluted", reinterpreted or ignored, purely for the sake of promoting a contrived political unity. In consequence, a coherent rationale for being in the same organization is gradually lost; members may then drift away or the organization may decline, split or disintegrate.
^ "DESTROY, DO NOT WOUND The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
believing that you must know the mind of the ruler or political opponent to know what will occur. Knowing their wants, their intents, which way their mind is turning, which way they will head or where they are drawing back from of the figure in question will explain what will occur. This has explanatory value in the goings on of and of the combining of alliances, making of pacts and signing of agreements for a cause.
indulge the weaker powers in a way that does not create them any power or share power, make sure the powerful are overthrown if they pose a threat or significant opposition, do not allow foreign powers to gain a reputation or have authority in owns land. One may give people status, benefits, security, safety or wealth but let those of a lower standing earn their own power. Increasing your power in turn enfeebles others of a lesser standing, conversely increasing somebody else's power if they are of lesser standing enfeebles yourself because they can turn on you. Appeasing others to avoid conflict elevates their position which is disadvantageous for a ruler to do. Making alliances too strong may turn on you.[5]
Suivisme: Some political analysts find the source of opportunism in a specific political methodology that is applied to maintain or increase political influence. An example might be so-called suivisme (a French word for political "tail-ending" or "tailism") where people try to follow and infiltrate any movement that shows signs of being popular or capturing significant support, for the purpose of gaining influence. Another version of this is sampling public opinions with surveys and focus groups to discover what they think, to contrive policies that are popular. This is usually not regarded as genuine leadership by politicians who know what they are doing, and who know what their constituency wants from personal experience. The opportunist tail-enders don't have any ideas themselves that lead to success, so they parasitize or plagiarize what others are doing in a bid to get a success. An extreme version of this is astroturfing.
Means become ends: a more general source of political opportunism is simply the great urge to achieve political success, to be successful, where success is defined as attaining a position of power, authority and influence (which in turn makes it possible to enact one's own policy). A politics is in truth successful only if the principles it advocates are really put into practice by a large number of people, or a majority of the people, in other words if people are really persuaded by an argument and act accordingly. In a principled politics, wielding power is only a means to this end: to restrain or change the behavioural patterns of citizens in ways thought to be beneficial to society. In opportunist politics, however, wielding power has become an end in itself, and the opportunist is the one who gains from it.
Political integrity typically demands an appropriate combination of principled positions and political flexibility that produces a morally consistent behavior in specific circumstances. Thus, whereas it may be necessary to seize a political opportunity when it presents itself, it should ideally be seized also with an appropriate motivation, and on a principled basis—which is basically what a leader of an increasingly large group aims to accomplish: to ensure that the right things are done for the right reasons.
^ "ACQUIRE WHEN YOU CAN The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
This counter-argument may have some validity, but has not proved that the suggested political evolution is inevitable in all cases. Namely, the politician owes power only to anability to serve a greater cause, and the ability to represent people based on popular perceptions and trust. Therefore, the ability to serve exclusively according to self-interest is limited. At best, the counter-argument indicates that only the strongest characters can withstand the temptations of opportunist behaviour in politics, and maintain personal and political integrity. It may be not so much the politicians themselves who are opportunist, but rather their entourage: those who "climb on the political bandwagon" to profit from it for themselves. In this sense, John Keegan writes:
Accusations of "opportunism" may be made without proof being available, and they may be open to debate. In this sense, Milton Friedman remarked that "One man's opportunism is another man's statesmanship".[10] A politician might for instance argue that, although his action seems unprincipled at first sight, when placed in a broader perspective it conforms exactly to what his constituency believes in. In an act of persuasion, he aims to convince people that his action is principled. Whether he is correct or not, may however be knowable only with the benefit of hindsight, long after the action occurred; the total effect of a strategic political decision may not be known until years or even decades after it was taken. When the outcome of an action is uncertain, a politician might argue, "History will prove me right."[11]
According to a popular saying, "there is no such thing as an honest politician" (politicians will accentuate certain truths at the expense of other truths), but there is such a thing as a "principled" politician working within clearly defined moral boundaries, which rule out doing "just anything". A politician may be a "clever talker" who can justify anything, but if there is a big discrepancy between the talk and what is actually being done, people are usually unlikely to believe it for very long. They know that things "do not match up", even if they do not know exactly why, and may become indifferent to whatever is being said.
people do not criticize a success story or successful leader, any means of acquiring success heaps praise upon one, but failure to do so gets blame and criticism by the press and people, that is fully deserved because it's more interesting to all people. One must strive to become a leader, get arms and be less dependent on others to be well renowned in state craft and one must acquire when one can.[7]
^ Playboy magazine, February 1973 issue. Quoted in The cynic's lexicon: a dictionary of amoral advice by Jonathon Green (Routledge 1984), p. 77. The interviewer, Michael Laurence, asked "Aren’t you saying that there’s been a large element of political opportunism in Nixon’s reversals?" and Friedman replied: "One man’s opportunism is another’s statesmanship. There is a very delicate balance between the two in our society. Good politics is what we should demand from our politicians—to a degree. We don’t want our leaders to charge off in every direction trying to satisfy the latest public whim, but neither do we want them to completely ignore the will of the people. I think Nixon acted properly. The real problem is educating the public, and there he was unsuccessful."[3] The interview is reprinted in Milton Friedman, There’s No Such Thing as a Free Lunch. La Salle, IL: Open Court, 1975 and in: Milton Friedman, Bright Promises, Dismal Performance: An Economist’s Protest. (ed. William R. Allen). New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1983.
don't settle on merely undermining ones enemies, one must try to overcome them and vanquish their hold of power. Treat people well or completely overcome them, anything in between could create a formidable enemy. Renewing wounds or slights every day won't keep mens mind at rest and bring them over to your side when it's time to start giving out benefits.[6]
Pierpont, Claudia Roth (7 September 2008). "The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule". www.newyorker.com. Retrieved 5 June 2019.
This ideal may be difficult to honor in practice, with the result that opportunistic mistakes are made. In his famous book Rules for Radicals,[17] community organizer Saul Alinsky for instance comments that in political organizations, quite often the right things are done for the wrong reasons, and conversely that the wrong things are done for perfectly "correct" reasons – presumably because of differentials in the existing understandings about why something is actually being done, and what the real effect of it will be. If power is wielded by means of special knowledge others don't have access to, such differentials are obviously likely to persist. This is likely to be the case, insofar as confidentiality and secrecy are necessary in politics – if the wrong people get hold of vital information, this could have unfavourable political effects. Thus, people may know "part of the story" but not the "full story" because, for political reasons, it cannot be told. The corollary is that people imagine reasons for political action that differ from the real reasons. This can get in the way of a truly principled approach to politics. In fact, Alinsky claimed that:
Thus, there may not be any generally applicable rule or technique (a "philosopher's stone") that could be invoked in advance to prevent opportunism. At best, one could be aware of the possibility that opportunism could become a real problem, and take steps to minimize the risk. Generally, that risk is minimized if people ensure that they can always explain clearly the relationship between chosen means and ends vis-a-vis the basic principles that guide them, i.e. to understand exactly why they are doing things and what motivates them.
See e.g. Caroline B. Glick, "Column one: Israel's premier opportunist". In: Jerusalem Post, 22 July 2011.[1]
Risk management: some analysts see opportunism as originating in perceptions of the relative magnitudes of risk associated with different policy alternatives. Here, it is argued that the larger a political organization grows, and the more influence it has, the less likely it is, that it will pursue policies that could potentially result in the loss of the gains it has previously made. The bigger the political movement gets, the more is at stake. It would be more likely that an organization will compromise its principles to maintain its position than to continue pursuing its principles regardless of the consequences. Or, at the very least, the greater the political influence obtained, the more pressure exists to compromise one's political principles[20]
You may improve this section, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new section, as appropriate.
"Machiavellian definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary". www.collinsdictionary.com. Retrieved 2019-03-17.
Sometimes it is argued that opportunist errors are preferable to sectarian or factional errors. Whatever his "sins" may be interpreted to be, it is argued, the political opportunist prioritizes gaining or maintaining influence among people, and therefore at least remains among majority opinion or "among the masses". In contrast, the sectarian or factionalist is likely to uphold his principles or beliefs regardless of any experience that might contradict them, and regardless of how many people support them; he attaches supreme importance to espousing his principles with an exaggerated belief in the power of ideas, no matter what others believe. This leads to political isolation and permits little experiential verification of the validity of political ideas. Sectarianism and opportunism might however also combine, to the extent that a sect believes that almost any trick is permissible to attract more members to the sect.
In politics, it is sometimes necessary to insist on political principles, while at other times it is necessary to insist on political unity among people who differ in their beliefs or principles. Some compromises usually have to be made. If political principles were typically defined or imposed in a completely inflexible, non-negotiable way, a likely result would be sectarianism or factionalism, since few people beyond "true believers" could support a political practice based on such rigid positions.
a political style of aiming to increase one's political influence at any price, or a political style that involves seizing every and any opportunity to extend political influence, whenever such opportunities arise.
a political leader may have the greatest army but without support of the people in the country or province they are invading, they will not have a victory. Victory must be achieved by winning the favor of the people.[3]
If opportunist politics, in its urge for success, confuses what a political movement really stands for, or continually changes its story to suit the moment, any profound evaluation of its experiential record becomes impossible, and the past can be re-interpreted in any number of ways to suit the political purposes of the present or those of the future. In turn, that undermines the possibility of cumulative and collective learning from political experience in a truthful way. In that case, the errors and problems of the past are more likely to be repeated. Normally one would say that "if a course of action doesn't work, try something else", but if it is no longer even clear what worked and what didn't in the past, or they are mixed up with each other, current political activity may keep reproducing the problematic patterns and traditions, the essence of which the political actors are only dimly aware of.
E.g. Chris Arsenault, "Nicaragua's Ortega: Socialism to opportunism?". Al Jazeera English, 8 November 2011.[7]
"BE PRESENT The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
See Robert Michels, Political Parties. New York: Dover, 1959, chapter 3, and Ernest Mandel, "What is the bureaucracy?", in: Tariq Ali (ed.), The Stalinist Legacy. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1984, p. 61-62).
^ See e.g. Caroline B. Glick, "Column one: Israel's premier opportunist". In: Jerusalem Post, 22 July 2011.[1]
^ A famous text by Fidel Castro is titled "History will absolve me". More recently, Tony Blair and George W. Bush defended the invasion of Iraq to overthrow the regime of Saddam Hussein stating that history would prove that this was the right thing to do. See: Roland Watson, "Bush echoes Blair with 'history will prove me right'", The Times (London), 31 July 2003.[4]
The tragedy of opportunist politics is often that, by forsaking principles to make political gains, it becomes difficult or impossible to distinguish and evaluate political success and failure appropriately, and draw appropriate conclusions. Because for such an evaluation, it must be possible to specify clearly to what extent it has been possible to realize the agreed principles being advocated (how far a political movement has progressed toward realizing its aims). If it is not even clear anymore what those principles are, a failure may be hailed as a success, or a success decried as a failure, giving rise to intense disputes about their real significance. It may create disorientation and confusion that, in turn, opportunists use to further their aims.
Political opportunism refers to the attempt to maintainpolitical support, or to increase politicalinfluence[citation needed] - possibly in a way which disregards relevant ethical or politicalprinciples.[1]
^ Saul Alinsky, Rules for Radicals. New York: Random House, 1971, p. 76.
^ Marc Tracy, "Congress cuts P.A. aid; 'political opportunism'". Tablet, 4 October 2011.[8]
If "there is no such thing as an honest politician", this need not mean that all politicians are liars, but just that they are often not in a position to know or reveal the "complete picture" and thus express selected truths relevant to their actions, rather than all possible truths that could be told. In that sense, it is quite possible to be a "principled" politician – if that was not so, then (arguably) all politicians are opportunists. Yet if all politicians are opportunists—as many cynics believe—it becomes difficult to explain a politician'sprofessional motivations . Namely, if their purpose is based only or primarily on self-interest—disregarding higher principles, which is the hallmark of opportunism—then politics is the least likely vocation, since it requires that politicians serve a collective interest or cause bigger than themselves. They would then be better off in a line of business where they can just pursue their own interest to the full. If they are able to be politicians, they could easily do so. The question is then why they don't, if indeed only out to serve themselves.
Saul Alinsky, Rules for Radicals. New York: Random House, 1971, p. 76.
A famous text by Fidel Castro is titled "History will absolve me". More recently, Tony Blair and George W. Bush defended the invasion of Iraq to overthrow the regime of Saddam Hussein stating that history would prove that this was the right thing to do. See: Roland Watson, "Bush echoes Blair with 'history will prove me right'", The Times (London), 31 July 2003.[4]
^ Compare for example:.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Aisen, Ari (2004). Money-Based Versus Exchange-Rate-Based Stabilization: Is There Space for Political Opportunism?. IMF Working Paper. Vol. WP/04/94. International Monetary Fund. p. 3. Retrieved 26 January 2020. Political opportunism is broadly defined throughout the paper as the policymaker's choice of a particular policy taking into account the timing of elections.
Most politicians are "opportunists" to some extent at least (they aim to utilize political opportunities creatively to their advantage, and have to try new initiatives), but the controversies surrounding the concept concern the exact relationship between "seizing a political opportunity" and the political principles being espoused. In other words, the question is "how far you can go" without compromising principles or abandoning an agreed-on code of ethics. There may be no quick and easy answer to that, because whether a transgression has occurred cannot be verified, is known only later, or is in dispute. This happens particularly in a new situation where it is uncertain how principles should be applied, or how people should respond to it.
"ACQUIRE WHEN YOU CAN The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli". www.obtaineudaimonia.com. Retrieved 9 June 2022.
"We shall need compromises in the days ahead, to be sure. But these will be, or should be, compromises of issues, not principles. We can compromise our political positions, but not ourselves. We can resolve the clash of interests without conceding our ideals. And even the necessity for the right kind of compromise does not eliminate the need for those idealists and reformers who keep our compromises moving ahead, who prevent all political situations from meeting the description supplied by Shaw: "smirched with compromise, rotted with opportunism, mildewed by expedience, stretched out of shape with wirepulling and putrefied with permeation... Compromise need not mean cowardice.” – John F. Kennedy[13]
^ "Machiavellian definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary". www.collinsdictionary.com. Retrieved 2019-03-17.
^ Jürgen Habermas accused Angela Merkel of opportunism in the following terms: "Since the Greek crisis erupted in May 2010 and Merkel's Christian Democrats lost the state election in North Rhine-Westphalia, she has subordinated each of her considered steps to the opportunism of staying in power." Der Spiegel English edition, 9 August 2013.[5]
Compare for example:.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Aisen, Ari (2004). Money-Based Versus Exchange-Rate-Based Stabilization: Is There Space for Political Opportunism?. IMF Working Paper. Vol. WP/04/94. International Monetary Fund. p. 3. Retrieved 26 January 2020. Political opportunism is broadly defined throughout the paper as the policymaker's choice of a particular policy taking into account the timing of elections.
^ David Brooks, "The upside of opportunism". New York Times, 29 October 2012, p. A27.
Jürgen Habermas accused Angela Merkel of opportunism in the following terms: "Since the Greek crisis erupted in May 2010 and Merkel's Christian Democrats lost the state election in North Rhine-Westphalia, she has subordinated each of her considered steps to the opportunism of staying in power." Der Spiegel English edition, 9 August 2013.[5]
Playboy magazine, February 1973 issue. Quoted in The cynic's lexicon: a dictionary of amoral advice by Jonathon Green (Routledge 1984), p. 77. The interviewer, Michael Laurence, asked "Aren’t you saying that there’s been a large element of political opportunism in Nixon’s reversals?" and Friedman replied: "One man’s opportunism is another’s statesmanship. There is a very delicate balance between the two in our society. Good politics is what we should demand from our politicians—to a degree. We don’t want our leaders to charge off in every direction trying to satisfy the latest public whim, but neither do we want them to completely ignore the will of the people. I think Nixon acted properly. The real problem is educating the public, and there he was unsuccessful."[3] The interview is reprinted in Milton Friedman, There’s No Such Thing as a Free Lunch. La Salle, IL: Open Court, 1975 and in: Milton Friedman, Bright Promises, Dismal Performance: An Economist’s Protest. (ed. William R. Allen). New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1983.
Typically, opportunist political behavior is criticized for being short-sighted or narrow-minded.[8] That is, in the urge to make short-term political gains or preserve them, the appropriate relationship between the means being used and the overall goals being aimed for is overlooked. The result might well be, that "short term gain" leads to "long term pain". Thus, after opportunist mistakes have been made and recognized, a lot of soul searching may occur, or "a return to principles" may be advocated, so that the proper relationship between people's principles and their actions is restored.[9]
^ Pierpont, Claudia Roth (7 September 2008). "The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule". www.newyorker.com. Retrieved 5 June 2019.
^ Davies, Robert William "Edward Hallett Carr, 1892–1982" pages 473–511 from Proceedings of the British Academy, Volume 69, 1983 page 477.
"Lee Kuan Yew's hard truths". openDemocracy. Archived from the original on 2020-11-15. Retrieved 2020-11-14.
Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord, a French diplomat who guided France and Europe through a variety of political systems.
Haslam, Jonathan (2002). No Virtue Like Necessity: Realist Thought in International Relations since Machiavelli. London: Yale University Press. p. 168. ISBN 978-0-300-09150-2.
In that context, one can see how Realpolitik principles can influence American policy but not as standard policy. The reach and influence of Realpolitik is found instead in pragmatic and flexible policy that changes to the needs of the situation. That type of policymaking could be seen as recently as in the administration of Barack Obama. Bew made note of that direction in the Obama administration, when Obama's chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, remarked in an article in The New York Times that everyone wanted to break it down into contrasts of idealist and realist, but "if you had to put him in a category, he's probably more realpolitik, like Bush 41 [...] You’ve got to be cold-blooded about the self-interests of your nation."[32]
Henry Kissinger has been credited with formally introducing the policy of Realpolitik to the White House as Secretary of State to Richard Nixon.[28] In that context, the policy meant dealing with other powerful nations in a practical manner, rather than on the basis of political doctrine or ethics such as Nixon's diplomacy with the People's Republic of China despite American opposition to communism and the previous doctrine of containment. Another example is Kissinger's use of shuttle diplomacy after the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, when he persuaded the Israelis to withdraw partially from the Sinai in deference to the political realities created by the oil crisis.
^ Bew, John (2014). Real Realpolitik: A History. Washington, D.C.: The Library of Congress.
Niccolò Machiavelli, an Italian political philosopher who wrote Il Principe (The Prince) in which he held that the sole aim of a prince (politician) was to seek power, regardless of religious or ethical considerations. However, there is scholarly debate about the nature and morality of his advice.
^ McMahon, Robert J. (1999). The limits of empire: the United States and Southeast Asia since World War II. Columbia University Press. p. 205. ISBN 9780231108805.
Lee described Singapore's only natural resources as being the grit of its people as well as their strong work ethic, propelling this mindset to all ethnic groups of the country.[16][17] Although Lee supported left-wing ideas in his young adulthood, he was largely conservative as a leader, concluding that extensive state welfare and subsidies blunted the individual's drive to succeed.[16] Nevertheless, his government still enacted social policies, which included free public education up until at least secondary school, state housing, a compulsory comprehensive savings and pension plan, as well as universal healthcare, in addition to a civic nationalist stance.[18]
McMahon, Robert J. (1999). The limits of empire: the United States and Southeast Asia since World War II. Columbia University Press. p. 205. ISBN 9780231108805.
Suryadinata, Leo (2012). Southeast Asian Personalities of Chinese Descent, Vol. 1: A Biographical Dictionary. Singapore: Institute of Southeast Asian Studies. p. 525. ISBN 978-981-4414-14-2. Archived from the original on 11 May 2016. Retrieved 28 July 2015.
^ Josh Rogin (2014-06-14). "America's Allies Are Funding ISIS". The Daily Beast. Retrieved 2014-08-10.
See political realism for branches and antecedents more relevant to contemporary diplomacy and the particular modern, international relations paradigm.
Whereas Realpolitik refers to political practice, the concept of political realism in international relations refers to a theoretical framework aimed at offering explanations for events in the international relations domain. The theory of political realism proceeds from the assumption that states—as actors in the international arena—pursue their interests by practicing Realpolitik. Conversely, Realpolitik can be described as the exercise of policies that are in line with accepted theories of political realism. In either case, the working hypothesis is generally that policy is chiefly based on the pursuit, possession and application of power (see also power politics). However, some international relations realists, such as Kenneth Waltz, have viewed state policy in terms of the pursuit of survival or security, rather than the pursuit of power for its own sake.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Humphreys, Adam R. C. (2014).Gibbons, Michael T; Ellis, Elisabeth; Coole, Diana; Ferguson, Kennan (eds.). Realpolitik. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. pp. 3151–3152. doi:10.1002/9781118474396. ISBN 9781118474396.
Kissinger, Henry (June 2012). "The Limits of Universalism". New Criterion.
Most recently, former Ambassador Dennis Ross advocated that approach to foreign policy in his 2007 book Statecraft: And How to Restore America's Standing in the World. For the purposes of contrast and speaking in ideal types, political ideologues would tend to favor principle over other considerations. Such individuals or groups can reject compromises that they see as the abandonment of their ideals and so may sacrifice political gain, in favor of adhering to principles that they believe to be constitutive of long-term goals.
^ "Hans-Dietrich Genscher: A Life of Longing for Stability". www.handelsblatt.com. Retrieved 2022-02-02.
Allison, Graham (2015-03-30). "Lee Kuan Yew's Troubling Legacy for Americans". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 2020-11-17. Retrieved 2020-11-14.
Southeast Asian Personalities of Chinese Descent, Vol. 1: A Biographical Dictionary
Those termed Legalist are more purely "Realpolitikal"[note 2] in contrast to Confucianism and include non-legal Shen Pu-hai derived political technique, which charges the ruler engage in passive observation to determine facts rather than take on too much himself. Sinologist Herrlee G. Creel writes: "If one wishes to exaggerate, it would no doubt be possible to translate (foundational Realist) Shen Buhai's term Shu, or technique, as 'science', and argue that Pu-hai was the first political scientist," though Creel does "not care to go this far".[7]
"Hans-Dietrich Genscher: A Life of Longing for Stability". www.handelsblatt.com. Retrieved 2022-02-02.
^ Roger Kerr (9 December 1999). "Optimism for the New Millennium". Rotary Club of Wellington North. Archived from the original on 7 March 2006. Retrieved 10 May 2006.
Chanakya (or Kautilya), an early Indian statesman and writer on the Arthashastra.
Kissinger himself said that he had never used the term Realpolitik and stated that it is used by both liberal and realist foreign policy thinkers to label, criticize and facilitate a choosing of sides.[29] Kissinger had looked at what he implemented while he served as Secretary of State and National Security Advisor not in the confines of making Realpolitik a standard policy, but within the terms of being a statesman. That political mindset can be seen in Kissinger's book A World Restored and was pointed out by historian John Bew in his book Realpolitik. Kissinger went on to say that the role of the statesman is "the ability to recognize the real relationship of forces and to make this knowledge serve his ends."[30][31]
Grandin & Joseph, Greg & Gilbert (2010). A Century of Revolution. Durham, NC: Duke University Press. pp. 397–414.
Creel, Herrlee G. (March 1974). "Shen Pu-Hai: A Secular Philosopher of Administration". Journal of Chinese Philosophy. 1 (2): 119–136. doi:10.1111/j.1540-6253.1974.tb00644.x.
^ von Rochau, Ludwig (1859). Grundsätze der Realpolitik angewendet auf die staatlichen Zustände Deutschlands.
Abott, Tony (23 March 2015). "Lee Kuan Yew - Message from PM Tony Abbott". singapore.embassy.gov.au. Government of Australia. Archived from the original on 17 June 2016. Retrieved 30 December 2020. Here in Australia and beyond, leaders sought and learned from his wise counsel.
3History and branches											Toggle History and branches subsection																					3.1China																											3.2Germany																											3.3Singapore																											3.4United Kingdom																											3.5United States
Frank Whelon Wayman (ed.), Paul Francis Diehl (ed.): Reconstructing Realpolitik. University of Michigan Press 1994, ISBN 978-0-472-08268-1 (restricted online copy at Google Books)
The term Realpolitik was coined by Ludwig von Rochau, a German writer and politician in the 19th century.[3] His 1853 book Grundsätze der Realpolitik angewendet auf die staatlichen Zustände Deutschlands ("Principles of Realpolitik applied to the national state of affairs of Germany") describes the meaning of the term:[4] .mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}
^ Bew, John (2015). Realpolitik: A History. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 258.
^ Abott, Tony (23 March 2015). "Lee Kuan Yew - Message from PM Tony Abbott". singapore.embassy.gov.au. Government of Australia. Archived from the original on 17 June 2016. Retrieved 30 December 2020. Here in Australia and beyond, leaders sought and learned from his wise counsel.
^ a b Suryadinata, Leo (2012). Southeast Asian Personalities of Chinese Descent, Vol. 1: A Biographical Dictionary. Singapore: Institute of Southeast Asian Studies. p. 525. ISBN 978-981-4414-14-2. Archived from the original on 11 May 2016. Retrieved 28 July 2015.
"US support for human rights abroad: The case of Saudi Arabia"
"US support for human rights abroad: The case of Saudi Arabia". CSMonitor.com. 2014-01-28. Retrieved 2014-08-10.
Historian John Bew suggests that much of what stands for modern Realpolitik today deviates from the original meaning of the term. Realpolitik emerged in mid-19th century Europe from the collision of the Enlightenment with state formation and power politics. The concept, Bew argues, was an early attempt at answering the conundrum of how to achieve liberal enlightened goals in a world that does not follow liberal enlightened rules.
^ Grandin & Joseph, Greg & Gilbert (2010). A Century of Revolution. Durham, NC: Duke University Press. pp. 397–414.
^ Cecilia, Tortajada; K. Biswas, Asit (27 March 2015). "Lee Kuan Yew: A Tribute to a Visionary Pragmatist". thediplomat.com. Retrieved 24 February 2022.
Many world leaders affirmed Lee's political knowledge as being pragmatist and "insightful".[21][22] Former President of the United States, Barack Obama, stated that he "personally appreciated [Lee's] wisdom." Former Prime Minister of Japan, Shinzo Abe, who had also championed for Asian values, stated that Lee was "one of the greatest leaders of modern times that Asia has ever produced" and a "great Asian leader who laid the foundation for the prosperity of Singapore today."[23] Former Prime Minister of Australia, Tony Abbott, mentioned that Lee was a "giant of our region" and that "thanks to his vision and determination, Singapore is one of the world's most successful countries."[24] Henry Kissinger described Lee as one of the "world's most successful pragmatists".[25] Today, his ideologies and views are now taught at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, an autonomous postgraduate school of the National University of Singapore.
The most famous German advocate of Realpolitik, what was uniquely possible and the applied means to achieve it, was Otto von Bismarck, the first Chancellor (1862–1890) to Wilhelm I of the Kingdom of Prussia. Bismarck used Realpolitik in his quest to achieve Prussian dominance in Germany. He manipulated political issues such as the Schleswig-Holstein Question and the Hohenzollern candidature to antagonize other countries and cause wars if necessary to attain his goals. Such policies are characteristic of Bismarck, demonstrating a pragmatic view of the "real" political world.
Cardinal Richelieu, a French statesman who destroyed domestic factionalism and guided France to a position of dominance in foreign affairs.
^ Bew, John (2015). Realpolitik: A History. New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 4–5.
Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC)
von Rochau, Ludwig (1859). Grundsätze der Realpolitik angewendet auf die staatlichen Zustände Deutschlands.
Ruth Weissbourd Grant: Hypocrisy and integrity: Machiavelli, Rousseau, and the ethics of politics. University of Chicago Press 1997, ISBN 978-0-226-30582-0, p. 40–41 (restricted online copy, p. 40, at Google Books)
"Tributes from around the world pour in for Mr Lee Kuan Yew". TODAYonline. Archived from the original on 15 November 2020. Retrieved 14 November 2020.
Known as the Imperial examination (simplified Chinese: 科举; traditional Chinese: 科舉) in China.
Adams, Francis (2003). Deepening democracy: global governance and political reform in Latin America. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 31. ISBN 9780275979713.
DeConde, Alexander;et al., eds. (2001). "Dictatorships". Encyclopedia of American Foreign Policy, Volume 1. Simon & Schuster. p. 499. ISBN 9780684806570.
^ "Lee Kuan Yew's hard truths". openDemocracy. Archived from the original on 2020-11-15. Retrieved 2020-11-14.
"Politics is the art of the possible."– Bismarck, 1867 interview
Frederick the Great, a Prussian monarch who transformed Prussia into a great European power through warfare and diplomacy.
Bew, John (2015). Realpolitik: A History. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 258.
20th century proponents of political realism include Hans Morgenthau, Henry Kissinger, George F. Kennan as well as politicians such as Charles de Gaulle and Lee Kuan Yew.
Kissinger, Henry (1999). A World Restored: Metternich, Castlereagh and the Problems of Peace, 1812–1822. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson. pp. 312–322.
Byrnes, Sholto. "Time to Rethink Realpolitik". New Statesman. Retrieved 25 June 2011.
Pflanze, Otto (1958). "Bismarck's "Realpolitik"". The Review of Politics. 20 (4): 492–514. doi:10.1017/S0034670500034185. ISSN 0034-6705. JSTOR 1404857. S2CID 144663704.
Realpolitik is distinct from ideological politics in that it is not dictated by a fixed set of rules but instead tends to be goal-oriented, limited only by practical exigencies. Since Realpolitik is ordered toward the most practical means of securing national interests, it can often entail compromising on ideological principles. For example, during the Cold War, the United States often supported authoritarian regimes that were human rights violators to secure theoretically the greater national interest of regional stability.[33][34][35][36] After the end of the Cold War, this practice continued.[37][38][39][40]
Federico Trocini: L’invenzione della «Realpolitik» e la scoperta della «legge del potere». August Ludwig von Rochau tra radicalismo e nazional-liberalismo, il Mulino, Bologna 2009
Davies, Robert William "Edward Hallett Carr, 1892–1982" pages 473–511 from Proceedings of the British Academy, Volume 69, 1983 page 477.
Thucydides, a Greek historian who wrote the History of the Peloponnesian War and is also cited as an intellectual forebearer of Realpolitik.
This page was last edited on 13 March 2023, at 16:13 (UTC).
Civilization and Realpolitik, by Prasenjit Duara, India International Centre Quarterly, Vol. 36, No. 3/4, INDIACHINA Neighbours Strangers (WINTER 2009 SPRING 2010), pp. 20-33.
Josh Rogin (2014-06-14). "America's Allies Are Funding ISIS". The Daily Beast. Retrieved 2014-08-10.
Brennan, Elliot (23 March 2015). "Lee Kuan Yew: Singapore's great pragmatist". ABC News. Retrieved 24 February 2022.
Henry A. Kissinger (23 March 2015). "Kissinger: The world will miss Lee Kuan Yew". Washington Post. Retrieved 24 February 2022.
^ a b Creel, Herrlee G. (March 1974). "Shen Pu-Hai: A Secular Philosopher of Administration". Journal of Chinese Philosophy. 1 (2): 119–136. doi:10.1111/j.1540-6253.1974.tb00644.x.
Deepening democracy: global governance and political reform in Latin America
^ Brennan, Elliot (23 March 2015). "Lee Kuan Yew: Singapore's great pragmatist". ABC News. Retrieved 24 February 2022.
Camillo Benso of Cavour, an Italian statesman who diplomatically managed to maneuver the Kingdom of Sardinia to become a new great power in Europe, controlling a nearly united Italy that was five times as large as the Kingdom of Sardinia had been before he came to power.
^ Known as the Imperial examination (simplified Chinese: 科举; traditional Chinese: 科舉) in China.
The study of the forces that shape, maintain and alter the state is the basis of all political insight and leads to the understanding that the law of power governs the world of states just as the law of gravity governs the physical world. The older political science was fully aware of this truth but drew a wrong and detrimental conclusion—the right of the more powerful. The modern era has corrected this unethical fallacy, but while breaking with the alleged right of the more powerful one, the modern era was too much inclined to overlook the real might of the more powerful and the inevitability of its political influence.
^ Kissinger, Henry (1999). A World Restored: Metternich, Castlereagh and the Problems of Peace, 1812–1822. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson. pp. 312–322.
^ "US support for human rights abroad: The case of Saudi Arabia". CSMonitor.com. 2014-01-28. Retrieved 2014-08-10.
^ DeConde, Alexander;et al., eds. (2001). "Dictatorships". Encyclopedia of American Foreign Policy, Volume 1. Simon & Schuster. p. 499. ISBN 9780684806570.
"5 dictators the U.S. still supports". The Week. 2011-02-03. Retrieved 2014-08-10.
American Realpolitik began in the 1960s with the influence of Polish-American Zbigniew Brzezinski, later National Security Adviser to Jimmy Carter. Contrary to McCarthy-era hostility and John Foster Dulles's talk of the military "liberation" of the Eastern Bloc, Brzezinski proposed "peaceful engagement" with the Soviet Union while he advised Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. Brzezinski, uninterested in promoting anti-Soviet propaganda for the benefit of the United States, felt the United States would be more successful through frequent interactions with regimes and people under communist rule. Brzezinski knew the tough economic realities of those living in the Eastern Bloc, particularly the permanent shortage of goods, and that their attachment to the Soviet Union was born of historic necessity, rather than common ideology. Brzezinski suggested enticing these countries economically and through educational and cultural exchanges, which would appeal to intellectuals, followed by favoritism for regimes showing signs of liberalization or less reliance on Moscow. Through that approach, Brzezinski "offered a realistic, evolutionary alternative to empty political rhetoric."[27]
Chick, Kristen (14 May 2012). "US resumes arms sales to Bahrain. Activists feel abandoned". The Christian Science Monitor. Retrieved 13 August 2014.
^ Tan, Kenneth Paul (February 2012). "The Ideology of Pragmatism: Neo-liberal Globalisation and Political Authoritarianism in Singapore". Journal of Contemporary Asia. 42 (1): 67–92. doi:10.1080/00472336.2012.634644. S2CID 56236985.
"Tributes from around the world pour in for Mr Lee Kuan Yew"
Tan, Kenneth Paul (February 2012). "The Ideology of Pragmatism: Neo-liberal Globalisation and Political Authoritarianism in Singapore". Journal of Contemporary Asia. 42 (1): 67–92. doi:10.1080/00472336.2012.634644. S2CID 56236985.
^ Haslam, Jonathan (2002). No Virtue Like Necessity: Realist Thought in International Relations since Machiavelli. London: Yale University Press. p. 168. ISBN 978-0-300-09150-2.
Otto von Bismarck, a Prussian statesman who coined the term balance of power. Balancing power means keeping the peace and careful Realpolitik practitioners try to avoid arms races.
In 1975, Chan Heng Chee described Singapore as a depoliticized "administrative state", where ideology and politics had triumphantly been replaced by "rational and scientific modes of public administration". It is suggested that by doggedly describing itself as pragmatic, the Singaporean state is actually disguising its ideological work and political nature through an assertion of the absence of ideology and politics.[19] Chua Beng Huat argued in 1995 that the rhetoric of pragmatism in Singapore is ideological and hegemonic in nature, adopted and disseminated in the public sphere by the People's Action Party government and institutionalized throughout the state in all its administrative, planning and policy-making functions.[20]
^ Civilization and Realpolitik, by Prasenjit Duara, India International Centre Quarterly, Vol. 36, No. 3/4, INDIACHINA Neighbours Strangers (WINTER 2009 SPRING 2010), pp. 20-33.
Prince Klemens Wenzel von Metternich, a Koblenz-born Austrian statesman opposed to political revolution.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Humphreys, Adam R. C. (2014).Gibbons, Michael T; Ellis, Elisabeth; Coole, Diana; Ferguson, Kennan (eds.). Realpolitik. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. pp. 3151–3152. doi:10.1002/9781118474396. ISBN 9781118474396.
^ Not to be confused with any Duke of the Song dynasty of a later period.
Publicist, journalist and liberal political reformer Von Rochau coined the term in 1853 and added a second volume in 1869 that further refined his earlier arguments. Rochau, exiled in Paris until the 1848 uprising, returned during the revolution and became a well-known figure in the National Liberal Party. As the liberal gains of the 1848 revolutions fell victim to coercive governments or were swallowed by powerful social forces such as class, religion and nationalism, Rochau—according to Bew—began to think hard about how the work that had begun with such enthusiasm had failed to yield any lasting results.
John Bew: "Real Realpolitik: A History", The John W. Kluge Center at the Library of Congress, April 10, 2014. Accessed July 29, 2014.
Thomas Hobbes, an English philosopher who wrote Leviathan in which he stated the state of nature was prone to a "war of all against all".
^ "Tributes from around the world pour in for Mr Lee Kuan Yew". TODAYonline. Archived from the original on 15 November 2020. Retrieved 14 November 2020.
The Qin disregarded this military tradition, taking advantage of their enemy's weaknesses.
^ Chick, Kristen (14 May 2012). "US resumes arms sales to Bahrain. Activists feel abandoned". The Christian Science Monitor. Retrieved 13 August 2014.
In the United States, the term is often analogous to power politics while in Germany Realpolitik has a somewhat less negative connotation, referring to realistic politics in opposition to idealistic (or unrealistic) politics. It is particularly associated with the era of 19th century nationalism. Realpolitik policies were employed in response to the failed revolutions of 1848 as means to strengthen states and tighten social order.
Han Fei, a Chinese scholar who theorised Legalism (or Legism) and who served in the court of the King of Qin—later unifier of China ending the Warring States period. His theory centres on the Two Handles (about penalty and rewards as tools of governance). He theorised about a neutral, manipulative ruler who would act as head of state while secretly controlling the executive through his ministers—the ones to take real responsibility for any policy.
Cecilia, Tortajada; K. Biswas, Asit (27 March 2015). "Lee Kuan Yew: A Tribute to a Visionary Pragmatist". thediplomat.com. Retrieved 24 February 2022.
The limits of empire: the United States and Southeast Asia since World War II
Mao Zedong's Three Worlds Theory is described as Realpolitik by his critics, including Enver Hoxha, who argue that it was not based on a strong ideological grounding and used only to justify rapport with the West.
^ Lee, Kuan Yew (15 September 2012). The Singapore Story: Memoirs of Lee Kuan Yew. Marshall Cavendish International Asia Pte Ltd. ISBN 9789814561761.
^ Adams, Francis (2003). Deepening democracy: global governance and political reform in Latin America. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 31. ISBN 9780275979713.
Ibn Khaldun, an Arab historiographer, historian and one of the founding fathers of modern historiography, author of Muqaddimah, a universal history of time.
Gati, Charles (2013). Zbig: The Strategy and Statecraft of Zbigniew Brzezinski. JHU Press. pp. 23–24. ISBN 9781421409771. Retrieved 1 June 2017.
Not to be confused with any Duke of the Song dynasty of a later period.
Bew, John (2015). Realpolitik: A History. New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 4–5.
^ "5 dictators the U.S. still supports". The Week. 2011-02-03. Retrieved 2014-08-10.
Starting in the Spring and Autumn period (771–476/403 BC), a trend of "realistic" reformers were taken on to advance the material interest of their respective states, with the Qin state founding the first Chinese Empire, Qin dynasty in 221 BCE, ending China's Warring States period. The political theory developed during the era, including that of Confucianism would influence every dynasty thereafter.
Lee, Kuan Yew (15 September 2012). The Singapore Story: Memoirs of Lee Kuan Yew. Marshall Cavendish International Asia Pte Ltd. ISBN 9789814561761.
Roger Kerr (9 December 1999). "Optimism for the New Millennium". Rotary Club of Wellington North. Archived from the original on 7 March 2006. Retrieved 10 May 2006.
Sun Tzu, a Chinese military strategist who wrote The Art of War that foreshadowed elements of Realpolitik developed later.
Another example was his willingness to adopt some social policies of the socialists such as employee insurance and pensions; in doing so, he used small changes from the top down to avoid the possibility of major change from the bottom up. Likewise, Prussia's seemingly illogical move of not demanding territory from a defeated Austria, a move that later led to the unification of Germany, is an oft-cited example of Realpolitik.[12]
^ Chua, Beng-Huat (1995). Communitarian ideology and democracy in Singapore (Repr. 1996. ed.). London [u.a.]: Routledge. ISBN 9780415120548.
^ Pflanze, Otto (1958). "Bismarck's "Realpolitik"". The Review of Politics. 20 (4): 492–514. doi:10.1017/S0034670500034185. ISSN 0034-6705. JSTOR 1404857. S2CID 144663704.
^ Kissinger, Henry (June 2012). "The Limits of Universalism". New Criterion.
Carl von Clausewitz, an 18–19th century Prussian general and military strategist who wrote On War (Vom Kriege).
He said that the great achievement of the Enlightenment had been to show that might is not necessarily right. The mistake liberals made was to assume that the law of the strong had suddenly evaporated simply because it had been shown to be unjust. Rochau wrote that "to bring down the walls of Jericho, the Realpolitiker knows the simple pickaxe is more useful than the mightiest trumpet". Rochau's concept was seized upon by German thinkers in the mid and late 19th century and became associated with Otto von Bismarck's statecraft in unifying Germany in the mid 19th century. By 1890, usage of the word Realpolitik was widespread, yet increasingly detached from its original meaning.[5]
Todd, Eric Myers (2011).Chatterjee, Deen K (ed.). "Asian Values Debate". Encyclopedia of Global Justice. doi:10.1007/978-1-4020-9160-5. ISBN 978-1-4020-9159-9. Archived from the original on 2 January 2021. Retrieved 30 December 2020.
Even prior to the contemporary Realpolitik term, China has had a "realistic" tradition in its governance dating back thousands of years. Often referred to as Chinese Legalism, the spirit of its content may be most readily recognized by Western viewers through one of its kindred, The Art of War.[6] Chinese administrative organization significantly influenced other Asian nations as well as Western administrative practices not later than the 12th century, playing a significant role in the development of the modern state, including the usage of examinations[note 1] for entry to the civil service.[7][8][9][10]
The Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC)
^ Allison, Graham (2015-03-30). "Lee Kuan Yew's Troubling Legacy for Americans". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 2020-11-17. Retrieved 2020-11-14.
Hajo Holborn: History of Modern Germany: 1840–1945. Princeton University Press 1982, ISBN 978-0-691-00797-7, p. 117 (restricted online copy, p. 117, at Google Books)
Singaporean statesman Lee Kuan Yew, who served as the country's first prime minister, has been considered by many political analysts as a pragmatist for his erudite policies in his governance of Singapore. He believed that the only way Singapore could survive as a relatively small nation as compared to its neighbours was to contrast itself from them, by building up a highly effective and non-corrupt government, in addition to a civil service, under a meritocratic system.[13][14] He also believed that Singapore was to stay neutral but also possess a strong military capability, believing that it serves as a guarantor of the country's independence due to its strategic position. A strong advocate for Asian values, he argued that Asian societies had different values from Western societies and that practicing such values was vital to succeed as a nation, especially as an Asian country, which includes collectivism and communitarianism.[15]
^ Todd, Eric Myers (2011).Chatterjee, Deen K (ed.). "Asian Values Debate". Encyclopedia of Global Justice. doi:10.1007/978-1-4020-9160-5. ISBN 978-1-4020-9159-9. Archived from the original on 2 January 2021. Retrieved 30 December 2020.
^ Gati, Charles (2013). Zbig: The Strategy and Statecraft of Zbigniew Brzezinski. JHU Press. pp. 23–24. ISBN 9781421409771. Retrieved 1 June 2017.
Chua, Beng-Huat (1995). Communitarian ideology and democracy in Singapore (Repr. 1996. ed.). London [u.a.]: Routledge. ISBN 9780415120548.
Realpolitik (German: [ʁeˈaːlpoliˌtiːk]; from Germanreal 'realistic, practical, actual', andPolitik 'politics') refers to enacting or engaging in diplomatic or political policies based primarily on considerations of given circumstances and factors, rather than strictly binding itself to explicit ideological notions or moral and ethical premises. In this respect, it shares aspects of its philosophical approach with those of realism and pragmatism. It is often simply referred to as pragmatism in politics, e.g. "pursuing pragmatic policies" or "realistic policies".
While often used as a positive and neutral term, the term Realpolitik is sometimes also used pejoratively to imply political policies that are perceived as being coercive, amoral, or Machiavellian.[1] Prominent proponents of Realpolitik during the 20th century include Henry Kissinger, George F. Kennan, Zbigniew Brzezinski, and Hans-Dietrich Genscher, as well as politicians such as Charles De Gaulle and Lee Kuan Yew.[2]
During the Spring and Autumn period,[9] the prevalent philosophy had dictated war as a gentleman's activity; military commanders were instructed to respect what they perceived to be Heaven's laws in battle.[11] For example, when Duke Xiang of Song[note 3] was at war with the state of Chu during the Warring States period, he declined an opportunity to attack the enemy force (commanded by Zhu) while they were crossing a river.
Bew, John (2014). Real Realpolitik: A History. Washington, D.C.: The Library of Congress.
^ Byrnes, Sholto. "Time to Rethink Realpolitik". New Statesman. Retrieved 25 June 2011.
John Bew: "The Real Origins of Realpolitik", The National Interest, 2014
David Robertson: The Routledge Dictionary of Politics. Routledge 2004. ISBN 978-0-415-32377-2, p. 420 (restricted online copy, p. 420, at Google Books)
^ Henry A. Kissinger (23 March 2015). "Kissinger: The world will miss Lee Kuan Yew". Washington Post. Retrieved 24 February 2022.
E. H. Carr was a liberal realist and left-wing British historian and international relations theorist who argued for realistic international over utopian policies. Carr described realism as the acceptance that what exists is right; he thus argued that in politics, realism meant that there is no moral dimension and that what is successful is right and what is unsuccessful is wrong. Carr was convinced that the Bolsheviks were destined to win the Russian Civil War and, under the grounds of Realpolitik, approved of British Prime Minister David Lloyd George's opposition to War Secretary Winston Churchill's support for military help to the anti-Bolshevik White movement.[26] In Carr's opinion, Churchill's support of the anti-Bolsheviks was folly, as Russia was likely to be a great power once more under the leadership of the Bolsheviks.
Harvey Mansfield and Nathan Tarcov, "Introduction to the Discourses". In their translation of the Discourses on Livy
Machiavelli, Niccolò (2006), El Principe/The Prince: Comentado Por Napoleon Bonaparte / Commentaries by Napoleon Buonaparte, Mestas Ediciones. Translated into Spanish by Marina Massa-Carrara
Mansfield however argues that Machiavelli's own aims have not been shared by those he influenced. Machiavelli argued against seeing mere peace and economic growth as worthy aims on their own, if they would lead to what Mansfield calls the "taming of the prince."[85]
Machiavelli, Niccolò (1996), Machiavelli and his friends: Their personal correspondence, Northern Illinois University Press. Translated and edited by James B. Atkinson and David Sices.
This page was last edited on 15 March 2023, at 22:39 (UTC).
^ Machiavelli, Niccolò (27 February 2009). Discourses on Livy, Book 1, Chapter 11–15. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226500331.
Sasso, Gennaro (1987–1997) Machiavelli e gli antichi e altri saggi, 4 vols., Milano, R. Ricciardi
^ This point is made especially in The Prince, Chap XII
Another interpretation is that of Antonio Gramsci, who argued that Machiavelli's audience for this work was not even the ruling class, but the common people, because rulers already knew these methods through their education.
Spalding "The American Prince? George Washington's Anti-Machiavellian moment" in Rahe (2006)
Martelli, Mario (1999c), "Machiavelli e Savonarola: valutazione politica e valutazione religiosa", Girolamo Savonarola. L´uomo e il frate". Atti del xxxv Convegno storico internazionale (Todi, II-14 ottobre 1998), CISAM, Spoleto, pp. 139–53.
^ Mansfield, Harvey C. (25 February 1998). Machiavelli's Virtue. University of Chicago Press. p. 178. ISBN 9780226503721.
Ritracto delle cose della Magna (1508–1512) – Portrait of the affairs of Germany.
The term Machiavellian often connotes political deceit, deviousness, and realpolitik. Even though Machiavelli has become most famous for his work on principalities, scholars also give attention to the exhortations in his other works of political philosophy. While much less well known than The Prince, the Discourses on Livy (composed c. 1517) has been said to have paved the way of modern republicanism.[18] His works were a major influence on Enlightenment authors who revived interest in classical republicanism, such as Jean-Jacques Rousseau and James Harrington.[19] Machiavelli's political realism has continued to influence generations of academics and politicians, including Hannah Arendt and Otto von Bismarck.[20] [21]
Walling "Was Alexander Hamilton a Machiavellian Statesman?" in Rahe (2006).
^ Harvey Mansfield and Nathan Tarcov, "Introduction to the Discourses". In their translation of the Discourses on Livy
Machiavelli was born in a tumultuous era. The Italian city-states, and the families and individuals who ran them could rise and fall suddenly, as popes and the kings of France, Spain, and the Holy Roman Empire waged acquisitive wars for regional influence and control. Political-military alliances continually changed, featuring condottieri (mercenary leaders), who changed sides without warning, and the rise and fall of many short-lived governments.[25]
Mansfield, Harvey C. "Machiavelli's Political Science," The American Political Science Review, Vol. 75, No. 2 (Jun. 1981), pp. 293–305 in JSTOR Archived 8 August 2016 at the Wayback Machine
Rahe, Paul A. (2006), Machiavelli's Liberal Republican Legacy, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0521851879 Excerpt, reviews and Text search shows Machiavelli's Discourses had a major impact on shaping conservative thought.
Baron, Hans. In Search of Florentine Civic Humanism (2 vols. 1988).
Sullivan, Vickie B. (1996), Machiavelli's Three Romes: Religion, Human Liberty, and Politics Reformed, Northern Illinois University Press
Martelli, Mario (2003), "Per la definizione della nozione di principe civile", Interpres, XXII.
Commentators such as Quentin Skinner and J.G.A. Pocock, in the so-called "Cambridge School" of interpretation, have asserted that some of the republican themes in Machiavelli's political works, particularly the Discourses on Livy, can be found in medieval Italian literature which was influenced by classical authors such as Sallust.[64][65]
Pocock, J.G.A. (1975), The Machiavellian Moment: Florentine Political Thought and the Atlantic Republican Tradition, Princeton new ed. 2003, a highly influential study of Discourses and its vast influence; excerpt and text search Archived 18 March 2021 at the Wayback Machine; also online 1975 edition Archived 7 October 2010 at the Wayback Machine
^ "Machievelli, Niccolò". Lexico US English Dictionary. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 10 February 2022.
Black, Robert (1999), "Machiavelli, servant of the Florentine republic",in Bock, Gisela; Skinner, Quentin; Viroli, Maurizio (eds.), Machiavelli and Republicanism, Cambridge University Press
Strauss argued that Machiavelli may have seen himself as influenced by some ideas from classical materialists such as Democritus, Epicurus and Lucretius. Strauss however sees this also as a sign of major innovation in Machiavelli, because classical materialists did not share the Socratic regard for political life, while Machiavelli clearly did.[66]
Briceño, Norberto. "28 Things You Didn't Know About Tupac Shakur". Buzzfeed. Retrieved 4 October 2015.
There is some disagreement concerning how best to describe the unifying themes, if there are any, that can be found in Machiavelli's works, especially in the two major political works, The Prince and Discourses. Some commentators have described him as inconsistent, and perhaps as not even putting a high priority in consistency.[62] Others such as Hans Baron have argued that his ideas must have changed dramatically over time. Some have argued that his conclusions are best understood as a product of his times, experiences and education. Others, such as Leo Strauss and Harvey Mansfield, have argued strongly that there is a very strong and deliberate consistency and distinctness, even arguing that this extends to all of Machiavelli's works including his comedies and letters.[62][63]
Christopher Marlowe's play The Jew of Malta (ca. 1589) contains a prologue by a character called Machiavel, a Senecan ghost based on Machiavelli.[123] Machiavel expresses the cynical view that power is amoral, saying "I count religion but a childish toy,/And hold there is no sin but ignorance."
"Discourses on Livy: Book 1, Chapter 18". www.constitution.org. Retrieved 9 May 2019.
When evening comes, I go back home, and go to my study. On the threshold, I take off my work clothes, covered in mud and filth, and I put on the clothes an ambassador would wear. Decently dressed, I enter the ancient courts of rulers who have long since died. There, I am warmly welcomed, and I feed on the only food I find nourishing and was born to savour. I am not ashamed to talk to them and ask them to explain their actions and they, out of kindness, answer me. Four hours go by without my feeling any anxiety. I forget every worry. I am no longer afraid of poverty or frightened of death. I live entirely through them.[38]
The Latin legend reads: TANTO NOMINI NULLUM PAR ELOGIUM ("So great a name (has) no adequate praise" or "No eulogy (would be) a match for such a great name" or "There is no praise equal to so great a name.")
^ "MACHIAVEL English Definition and Meaning | Lexico.com". Lexico Dictionaries. Archived from the original on 16 May 2021. Retrieved 31 December 2021.
^ a b Viroli, Maurizio (9 January 2002). Niccolo's Smile: A Biography of Machiavelli. Macmillan. pp. 81–86. ISBN 9780374528003.
Black, Robert (20 November 2013). Machiavelli. Routledge. p. 283. ISBN 978-1-317-69958-3.
^ "When Isms go to War | StratBlog". 29 October 2013. Archived from the original on 29 October 2013. Retrieved 29 October 2019.
^ Mansfield, Harvey (1998) Machiavelli's Virtue Archived 18 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine, page 233
^ For example: Smith, Gregory B. (2008). Between Eternities: On the Tradition of Political Philosophy, Past, Present, and Future. Lexington Books. p. 65. ISBN 9780739120774., Whelan, Frederick G. (2004). Hume and Machiavelli: Political Realism and Liberal Thought. Lexington Books. p. 29. ISBN 9780739106310., Strauss (15 October 1988). What is Political Philosophy? And Other Studies. University of Chicago Press. p. 41. ISBN 9780226777139.
Machiavelli's New Modes and Orders: A Study of the Discourses on Livy
"An epic for our times: How Game of Thrones reached highbrow status"
Viroli, Maurizio (2000), Niccolò's Smile: A Biography of Machiavelli, Farrar, Straus & Giroux excerpt and text search Archived 24 March 2021 at the Wayback Machine
The Prince, Chapter XVIII, "In What Mode Should Faith Be Kept By Princes"
Firstly, particularly in the Discourses on Livy, Machiavelli is unusual in the positive side he sometimes seems to describe in factionalism in republics. For example, quite early in the Discourses, (in Book I, chapter 4), a chapter title announces that the disunion of the plebs and senate in Rome "kept Rome free". That a community has different components whose interests must be balanced in any good regime is an idea with classical precedents, but Machiavelli's particularly extreme presentation is seen as a critical step towards the later political ideas of both a division of powers or checks and balances, ideas which lay behind the US constitution, as well as many other modern state constitutions.
^ Black, Robert (20 November 2013). Machiavelli. Routledge. p. 283. ISBN 978-1-317-69958-3.
Hoeges, Dirk. Niccolò Machiavelli. Dichter-Poeta. Mit sämtlichen Gedichten, deutsch/italienisch. Con tutte le poesie, tedesco/italiano, Reihe: Dialoghi/Dialogues: Literatur und Kultur Italiens und Frankreichs, Band 10, Peter Lang Verlag, Frankfurt/M. u.a. 2006, ISBN 3-631-54669-6.
Descrizione del modo tenuto dal Duca Valentino nello ammazzare Vitellozzo Vitelli, Oliverotto da Fermo, il Signor Pagolo e il duca di Gravina Orsini (1502) – A Description of the Methods Adopted by the Duke Valentino when Murdering Vitellozzo Vitelli, Oliverotto da Fermo, the Signor Pagolo, and the Duke di Gravina Orsini
Machiavelli, Niccolò (27 February 2009). Discourses on Livy. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226500331.
Machiavelli's best-known book Il Principe contains several maxims concerning politics. Instead of the more traditional target audience of a hereditary prince, it concentrates on the possibility of a "new prince". To retain power, the hereditary prince must carefully balance the interests of a variety of institutions to which the people are accustomed.[42] By contrast, a new prince has the more difficult task in ruling: He must first stabilise his newfound power in order to build an enduring political structure. Machiavelli suggests that the social benefits of stability and security can be achieved in the face of moral corruption. Machiavelli believed that public and private morality had to be understood as two different things in order to rule well.[43] As a result, a ruler must be concerned not only with reputation, but also must be positively willing to act unscrupulously at the right times. Machiavelli believed that,for a ruler, it was better to be widely feared than to be greatly loved; a loved ruler retains authority by obligation, while a feared leader rules by fear of punishment.[44]As a political theorist, Machiavelli emphasized the "necessity" for the methodical exercise of brute force or deceit, including extermination of entire noble families, to head off any chance of a challenge to the prince's authority.[45]
Machiavelli's judgment that governments need religion for practical political reasons was widespread among modern proponents of republics until approximately the time of the French Revolution. This therefore represents a point of disagreement between Machiavelli and late modernity.[84]
^ Machiavelli, Niccolò (27 February 2009). Discourses on Livy. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226500331.
Mansfield, Harvey C. (15 April 2001). Machiavelli's New Modes and Orders: A Study of the Discourses on Livy. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226503707.
Fischer, Markus (Autumn 1997). "Machiavelli's Political Psychology". The Review of Politics. 59 (4): 789–829. doi:10.1017/S0034670500028333. JSTOR 1408308. S2CID 146570913.
^ Arendt, Hannah (1988). The Human Condition. Chicago: Chicago University Press. p. 77.
Jurdjevic, Mark (2014). A Great and Wretched City: Promise and Failure in Machiavelli's Florentine Political Thought. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-72546-1.
Knickerbocker, Joan L. (15 March 2017). Literature for Young Adults: Books (and More) for Contemporary Readers. Routledge. p. 355. ISBN 9781351813020.
The Socratic school of classical political philosophy, especially Aristotle, had become a major influence upon European political thinking in the late Middle Ages. It existed both in the Catholicised form presented by Thomas Aquinas, and in the more controversial "Averroist" form of authors like Marsilius of Padua. Machiavelli was critical of Catholic political thinking and may have been influenced by Averroism. But he rarely cites Plato and Aristotle, and most likely did not approve of them. Leo Strauss argued that the strong influence of Xenophon, a student of Socrates more known as an historian, rhetorician and soldier, was a major source of Socratic ideas for Machiavelli, sometimes not in line with Aristotle. While interest in Plato was increasing in Florence during Machiavelli's lifetime, Machiavelli does not show particular interest in him, but was indirectly influenced by his readings of authors such as Polybius, Plutarch and Cicero.
The Founding Father who perhaps most studied and valued Machiavelli as a political philosopher was John Adams, who profusely commented on the Italian's thought in his work, A Defence of the Constitutions of Government of the United States of America.[112] In this work, John Adams praised Machiavelli, with Algernon Sidney and Montesquieu, as a philosophic defender of mixed government. For Adams, Machiavelli restored empirical reason to politics, while his analysis of factions was commendable. Adams likewise agreed with the Florentine that human nature was immutable and driven by passions. He also accepted Machiavelli's belief that all societies were subject to cyclical periods of growth and decay. For Adams, Machiavelli lacked only a clear understanding of the institutions necessary for good government.[112]
Giuseppe Leone, "Silone e Machiavelli. Una scuola...che non crea prìncipi", pref. di Vittoriano Esposito, Centro Studi Ignazio Silone, Pescina, 2003.
Due to the treatise's controversial analysis on politics, the Catholic Church banned The Prince, putting it on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum. Humanists also viewed the book negatively, including Erasmus of Rotterdam. As a treatise, its primary intellectual contribution to the history of political thought is the fundamental break between political realism and political idealism, due to it being a manual on acquiring and keeping political power. In contrast with Plato and Aristotle, Machiavelli insisted that an imaginary ideal society is not a model by which a prince should orient himself.
Barbuto, Marcelo (2005), "Questa oblivione delle cose. Reflexiones sobre la cosmología de Maquiavelo (1469–1527)," Revista Daimon, 34, Universidad de Murcia, pp. 34–52.
Maurizio Viroli, Niccolò's Smile: A Biography of Machiavelli (2000), ch 1
"First-time Machiavelli translation debuts at Yale". yaledailynews.com. 18 April 2012.
Schaefer, David (1990), The Political Philosophy of Montaigne, Cornell University Press.
Machiavelli, Niccolò (27 February 2009). Discourses on Livy: Book One, Chapter 16. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226500331.
The Prince (2007) excerpt and text search Archived 10 March 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Ruggiero, Guido. Machiavelli in Love: Sex, Self and Society in Renaissance Italy (2007)
^ Many historians have argued that this was due to Piero Soderini's unwillingness to compromise with the Medici, who were holding Prato under siege.
A highly fictionalised version of Machiavelli appears in the BBC children's TV series Leonardo (2011–2012),[131] in which he is "Mac", a black streetwise hustler who is best friends with fellow teenagers Leonardo da Vinci, Mona Lisa, and Lorenzo di Medici. In the 2013 episode "Ewings Unite!" of the television series Dallas, legendary oil baron J. R. Ewing wills his copy of The Prince to his adopted nephew Christopher Ewing, telling him to "use it, because being smart and sneaky is an unbeatable combination." In Da Vinci's Demons (2013–2015) – an American historical fantasy drama series that presents a fictional account of Leonardo da Vinci's early life[132] – Eros Vlahos plays a young Niccolò "Nico" Machiavelli, although the character's full name is not revealed until the finale of the second season.
His works are sometimes even said to have contributed to the modern negative connotations of the words politics and politician,[116] and it is sometimes thought that it is because of him that Old Nick became an English term for the Devil.[117] More obviously, the adjective Machiavellian became a term describing a form of politics that is "marked by cunning, duplicity, or bad faith".[118] Machiavellianism also remains a popular term used casually in political discussions, often as a byword for bare-knuckled political realism.[119][120]
While Machiavelli's approach had classical precedents, it has been argued that it did more than just bring back old ideas and that Machiavelli was not a typical humanist. Strauss (1958) argues that the way Machiavelli combines classical ideas is new. While Xenophon and Plato also described realistic politics and were closer to Machiavelli than Aristotle was, they, like Aristotle, also saw philosophy as something higher than politics. Machiavelli was apparently a materialist who objected to explanations involving formal and final causation, or teleology.
Machiavelli and the Italian City on the BBC's In Our Time with Melvyn Bragg
^ Knickerbocker, Joan L. (15 March 2017). Literature for Young Adults: Books (and More) for Contemporary Readers. Routledge. p. 355. ISBN 9781351813020.
Machiavelli is sometimes seen as the prototype of a modern empirical scientist, building generalizations from experience and historical facts, and emphasizing the uselessness of theorizing with the imagination.[62]
Machiavelli, Niccolò (1988), Florentine Histories, Princeton University Press. Translation by Laura F. Banfield and Harvey Mansfield, Jr.
Review by Jann Racquoi, Heights/Inwood Press of North Manhattan, 14 March 1979.
Modern materialist philosophy developed in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries, starting in the generations after Machiavelli. This philosophy tended to be republican, but as with the Catholic authors, Machiavelli's realism and encouragement of using innovation to try to control one's own fortune were more accepted than his emphasis upon war and factional violence. Not only was innovative economics and politics a result, but also modern science, leading some commentators to say that the 18th century Enlightenment involved a "humanitarian" moderating of Machiavellianism.[94]
Parel, A. J. (Spring 1991). "The Question of Machiavelli's Modernity". The Review of Politics. 53 (2): 320–339. doi:10.1017/S0034670500014649. JSTOR 1407757. S2CID 170629105.
^ Briceño, Norberto. "28 Things You Didn't Know About Tupac Shakur". Buzzfeed. Retrieved 4 October 2015.
^ While Bireley focuses on writers in the Catholic countries, Haitsma Mulier (1999) makes the same observation, writing with more of a focus upon the Protestant Netherlands.
Machiavelli however, along with some of his classical predecessors, saw ambition and spiritedness, and therefore war, as inevitable and part of human nature.
^ Hulliung, Mark (5 July 2017). Citizen Machiavelli. Routledge. ISBN 9781351528481.
^ Berlin, Isaiah. "The Originality of Machiavelli" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 December 2012. Retrieved 18 October 2012.
Machiavelli, Niccolò (2015), The Prince, US: Adagio Press, ISBN 978-0996767705. Edited by W. Garner. Translated by Luigi Ricci. Excerpt and text search Archived 18 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine
He emancipated politics from theology and moral philosophy. He undertook to describe simply what rulers actually did and thus anticipated what was later called the scientific spirit in which questions of good and bad are ignored, and the observer attempts to discover only what really happens.
^ Motamayor, Rafael (25 December 2020). "'Assassin's Creed' Timeline, Explained: From Ancient Civilizations and Greek Gods to Vikings and Pirates". Collider. Retrieved 27 January 2021.
Skinner, Quentin. Machiavelli, in Past Masters series. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 1981. pp. vii, 102. ISBN 0-19-287516-7 pbk.
Najemy, John M. (15 January 2019). Between Friends: Discourses of Power and Desire in the Machiavelli-Vettori Letters of 1513–1515. Princeton University Press. ISBN 9780691656649.
A related and more controversial proposal often made is that he described how to do things in politics in a way which seemed neutral concerning who used the advice—tyrants or good rulers.[62] That Machiavelli strove for realism is not doubted, but for four centuries scholars have debated how best to describe his morality. The Prince made the word Machiavellian a byword for deceit, despotism, and political manipulation. Leo Strauss declared himself inclined toward the traditional view that Machiavelli was self-consciously a "teacher of evil," since he counsels the princes to avoid the values of justice, mercy, temperance, wisdom, and love of their people in preference to the use of cruelty, violence, fear, and deception.[72] Strauss takes up this opinion because he asserted that failure to accept the traditional opinion misses the "intrepidity of his thought" and "the graceful subtlety of his speech."[73]Italian anti-fascist philosopher Benedetto Croce (1925) concludes Machiavelli is simply a "realist" or "pragmatist" who accurately states that moral values in reality do not greatly affect the decisions that political leaders make.[74] German philosopher Ernst Cassirer (1946) held that Machiavelli simply adopts the stance of a political scientist—a Galileo of politics—in distinguishing between the "facts" of political life and the "values" of moral judgment.[75] On the other hand, Walter Russell Mead has argued that The Prince's advice presupposes the importance of ideas like legitimacy in making changes to the political system.[76]
Sil, Narasingha Prosad (1985). Kauṭilya's Arthaśāstra: A Comparative Study. Academic Publishers Calcutta. p. 217.
Rahe, Paul A. (14 November 2005). Machiavelli's Liberal Republican Legacy. Cambridge University Press. pp. xxxvi. ISBN 978-1-139-44833-8.
Machiavelli is generally seen as being critical of Christianity as it existed in his time, specifically its effect upon politics, and also everyday life.[77] In his opinion, Christianity, along with the teleological Aristotelianism that the Church had come to accept, allowed practical decisions to be guided too much by imaginary ideals and encouraged people to lazily leave events up to providence or, as he would put it, chance, luck or fortune. While Christianity sees modesty as a virtue and pride as sinful, Machiavelli took a more classical position, seeing ambition, spiritedness, and the pursuit of glory as good and natural things, and part of the virtue and prudence that good princes should have. Therefore, while it was traditional to say that leaders should have virtues, especially prudence, Machiavelli's use of the words virtù and prudenza was unusual for his time, implying a spirited and immodest ambition. Mansfield describes his usage of virtu as a "compromise with evil".[78] Famously, Machiavelli argued that virtue and prudence can help a man control more of his future, in the place of allowing fortune to do so.
Godman (1998, p. 240). Also see Black (1999, pp. 97–98)
Machiavelli was taught grammar, rhetoric, and Latin, by his teacher, Paolo da Ronciglione.[26] It is unknown whether Machiavelli knew Greek even though Florence was at the time one of the centers of Greek scholarship in Europe.[27] In 1494 Florence restored the republic, expelling the Medici family that had ruled Florence for some sixty years. Shortly after the execution of Savonarola, Machiavelli was appointed to an office of the second chancery, a medieval writing office that put Machiavelli in charge of the production of official Florentine government documents.[28] Shortly thereafter, he was also made the secretary of the Dieci di Libertà e Pace.
Baron, Hans (1961), "Machiavelli: the Republican Citizen and Author of The Prince", English Historical Review, lxxvi (76): 217–53, doi:10.1093/ehr/LXXVI.CCXCIX.217, JSTOR 557541. in JSTOR Archived 18 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine
Viroli, Maurizio. Machiavelli (1998) online edition Archived 20 October 2017 at the Wayback Machine
Machiavelli, Niccolò (27 February 2009). Discourses on Livy. University of Chicago Press. p. 131. ISBN 9780226500331.
"The Tudors Season 1 Episode 2 – Simply Henry". The Anne Boleyn Files. 22 March 2011. Retrieved 8 February 2018.
Zuckert, Catherine, (2017) "Machiavelli's Politics" Archived 18 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine
^ "The Warlock by Michael Scott". Penguin Random House Canada. Retrieved 22 January 2021.
Harper, John Lamberton (2004). American Machiavelli: Alexander Hamilton and the Origins of US Foreign Policy. New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-83485-8.
Haitsma Mulier, Eco (1999). "A controversial republican".In Bock, Gisela; Skinner, Quentin; Viroli, Maurizio (eds.). Machiavelli and Republicanism. Cambridge University Press.
"Even such men as Malatesta and Machiavelli, after spending their lives in estrangement from the Church, sought on their death-beds her assistance and consolations. Both made good confessions and received the Holy Viaticum." – Ludwig von Pastor, History of the Popes, Vol. 5, p. 137.
Niccolò Machiavelli plays a vital role in the young adult book series The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel by Michael Scott.[124] He is immortal, and is working in national security for the French government.[125]
von Vacano, Diego, "The Art of Power: Machiavelli, Nietzsche and the Making of Aesthetic Political Theory," Lanham MD: Lexington: 2007.
Although Jean-Jacques Rousseau is associated with very different political ideas he was also influenced by him, although he viewed Machiavelli's work as a satirical piece in which Machiavelli exposes the faults of a one-man rule rather than exalting amorality.
Strauss, Leo (1987), "Niccolò Machiavelli",in Strauss, Leo; Cropsey, Joseph (eds.), History of Political Philosophy (3rd ed.), University of Chicago Press
Donskis, Leonidas, ed. (2011). Niccolò Machiavelli: History, Power, and Virtue. Rodopi, ISBN 978-90-420-3277-4, E-ISBN 978-90-420-3278-1
Machiavelli in Love: Sex, Self and Society in Renaissance Italy
For many years he served as a senior official in the Florentine Republic with responsibilities in diplomatic and military affairs. He wrote comedies, carnival songs, and poetry. His personal correspondence is also important to historians and scholars of Italian correspondence.[10] He worked as secretary to the Second Chancery of the Republic of Florence from 1498 to 1512, when the Medici were out of power.
Television dramas centring on the early Renaissance have also made use of Machiavelli to underscore his influence in early modern political philosophy. Machiavelli has been featured as a supporting character in The Tudors (2007–2010),[127][128] Borgia (2011–2014) and The Borgias (2011–2013),[129] and the 1981 BBC mini series The Borgias.
Besides being a statesman and political scientist, Machiavelli also translated classical works, and was a playwright (Clizia, Mandragola), a poet (Sonetti, Canzoni, Ottave, Canti carnascialeschi), and a novelist (Belfagor arcidiavolo).
Jensen, De Lamar, ed. Machiavelli: Cynic, Patriot, or Political Scientist? (1960) essays by scholars online edition Archived 25 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine
Villari, Pasquale. The Life and Times of Niccolò Machiavelli (2 vols. 1892) (Vol 1; Vol 2)
While fear of God can be replaced by fear of the prince, if there is a strong enough prince, Machiavelli felt that having a religion is in any case especially essential to keeping a republic in order. For Machiavelli, a truly great prince can never be conventionally religious himself, but he should make his people religious if he can. According to Strauss (1958, pp. 226–27) he was not the first person to ever explain religion in this way, but his description of religion was novel because of the way he integrated this into his general account of princes.
While Bireley focuses on writers in the Catholic countries, Haitsma Mulier (1999) makes the same observation, writing with more of a focus upon the Protestant Netherlands.
That Machiavelli had a wide range of influences is in itself not controversial. Their relative importance is however a subject of on-going discussion. It is possible to summarize some of the main influences emphasized by different commentators.
The Discourses, edited with an introduction by Bernard Crick (1970).
^ Theodosiadis, Michail (June–August 2021). "From Hobbes and Locke to Machiavelli's virtù in the political context of meliorism: popular eucosmia and the value of moral memory". Polis Revista. 11: 25–60.
McLaughlin, Paul (2007). "The Historical Foundations of Anarchism". Anarchism and Authority: A Philosophical Introduction to Classical Anarchism. Burlington: Ashgate Publishing. pp. 104–105. ISBN 978-0-7546-6196-2. OCLC 85766067.
^ Jonathan Jones (16 April 2013). "Da Vinci's Demons: the new TV show that totally reinvents Leonardo's life". The Guardian. Retrieved 10 March 2014.
Mansfield, Harvey C. Machiavelli's New Modes and Orders: A Study of the Discourses on Livy (2001) excerpt and text search Archived 11 March 2021 at the Wayback Machine
^ Machiavelli, Niccolò (27 February 2009). Discourses on Livy: Book One, Chapter 16. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226500331.
Machiavelli, Niccolò (1985), Comedies of Machiavelli, University Press of New England Bilingual edition of The Woman from Andros, The Mandrake, and Clizia, edited by David Sices and James B. Atkinson.
^ Leonardo Archived 29 July 2019 at the Wayback Machine BBC
Najemy, John (1993), Between Friends: Discourses of Power and Desire in the Machiavelli-Vettori Letters of 1513–1515, Princeton University Press
Machiavelli shows repeatedly that he saw religion as man-made, and that the value of religion lies in its contribution to social order and the rules of morality must be dispensed with if security requires it.[79][80] In The Prince, the Discourses and in the Life of Castruccio Castracani he describes "prophets", as he calls them, like Moses, Romulus, Cyrus the Great and Theseus (he treated pagan and Christian patriarchs in the same way) as the greatest of new princes, the glorious and brutal founders of the most novel innovations in politics, and men whom Machiavelli assures us have always used a large amount of armed force and murder against their own people.[81] He estimated that these sects last from 1,666 to 3,000 years each time, which, as pointed out by Leo Strauss, would mean that Christianity became due to start finishing about 150 years after Machiavelli.[82] Machiavelli's concern with Christianity as a sect was that it makes men weak and inactive, delivering politics into the hands of cruel and wicked men without a fight.[83]
^ Ridolfi, Roberto (17 June 2013). The Life of Niccolò Machiavelli. Routledge. p. 28. ISBN 9781135026615.
Maclaine, David. "City of God by Cecelia Holland". Historicalnovels.info. Retrieved 5 September 2014.
Machiavelli, Niccolò. The Prince, (1908 edition tr by W. K. Marriott) Gutenberg edition Archived 24 September 2009 at the Wayback Machine
After his death Machiavelli's name came to evoke unscrupulous acts of the sort he advised most famously in his work, The Prince.[11] He claimed that his experience and reading of history showed him that politics have always been played with deception, treachery, and crime.[12] He also notably said that a ruler who is establishing a kingdom or a republic, and is criticized for his deeds, including violence, should be excused when the intention and the result are beneficial to him.[13][14][15] Machiavelli's Prince has been surrounded by controversy since its release. Some consider it to be a straightforward description of political reality. Others view the Prince as a manual, teaching would-be tyrants how they should seize and maintain power.[16] Even into recent times, some scholars, such as Leo Strauss, have restated the traditional opinion that Machiavelli was a "teacher of evil".[17]
Pflanze, Otto (1958). "Bismarck's "Realpolitik"". The Review of Politics. 20 (4): 492–514. doi:10.1017/S0034670500034185. ISSN 0034-6705. JSTOR 1404857. S2CID 144663704.
Despite the classical precedents, which Machiavelli was not the only one to promote in his time, Machiavelli's realism and willingness to argue that good ends justify bad things, is seen as a critical stimulus towards some of the most important theories of modern politics.
Motamayor, Rafael (25 December 2020). "'Assassin's Creed' Timeline, Explained: From Ancient Civilizations and Greek Gods to Vikings and Pirates". Collider. Retrieved 27 January 2021.
^ For example, The Prince chap. 15, and The Discourses Book I, chapter 9
Rahe, Paul A. (14 November 2005). Machiavelli's Liberal Republican Legacy. Cambridge University Press. p. 3. ISBN 9781139448338.
Machiavelli's promotion of ambition among leaders while denying any higher standard meant that he encouraged risk-taking, and innovation, most famously the founding of new modes and orders. His advice to princes was therefore certainly not limited to discussing how to maintain a state. It has been argued that Machiavelli's promotion of innovation led directly to the argument for progress as an aim of politics and civilization. But while a belief that humanity can control its own future, control nature, and "progress" has been long-lasting, Machiavelli's followers, starting with his own friend Guicciardini, have tended to prefer peaceful progress through economic development, and not warlike progress. As Harvey Mansfield (1995, p. 74) wrote: "In attempting other, more regular and scientific modes of overcoming fortune, Machiavelli's successors formalized and emasculated his notion of virtue."
^ Mansfield, Harvey C. (25 February 1998). Machiavelli's Virtue. ISBN 9780226503721.
Machiavelli, Niccolò (1961), The Prince, London: Penguin, ISBN 978-0-14-044915-0. Translated by George Bull
^ Mansfield, Harvey C. (25 February 1998). Machiavelli's Virtue. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226503721.
^ Carrese "The Machiavellian Spirit of Montesquieu's Liberal Republic" in Rahe (2006)
Between Friends: Discourses of Power and Desire in the Machiavelli-Vettori Letters of 1513–1515
Between Eternities: On the Tradition of Political Philosophy, Past, Present, and Future
In the 20th century there was also renewed interest in Machiavelli's play La Mandragola (1518), which received numerous stagings, including several in New York, at the New York Shakespeare Festival in 1976 and the Riverside Shakespeare Company in 1979, as a musical comedy by Peer Raben in Munich's antiteater in 1971, and at London's National Theatre in 1984.[115]
^ Joshua Kaplan, "Political Theory: The Classic Texts and their Continuing Relevance," The Modern Scholar (14 lectures in the series; lecture #7 / disc 4), 2005.
^ "BBC Radio 4 – Saturday Drama, The Prince". BBC.
Martelli, Mario (1999a), "Note su Machiavelli", Interpres XVIII, pp. 91–145.
^ Jack Donnelly, Realism and International Relations (2000), p. 68
Capponi, Niccolò. An Unlikely Prince: The Life and Times of Machiavelli (Da Capo Press; 2010) 334 pages
^ "Spinoza's Political Philosophy". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2013. Retrieved 19 March 2011.
The Discourses, tr. with introduction and notes by L. J. Walker (2 vol 1950).
^ "Jew of Malta, The by MARLOWE, Christopher". Player FM. 2016. Retrieved 12 May 2018.
^ McLaughlin, Paul (2007). "The Historical Foundations of Anarchism". Anarchism and Authority: A Philosophical Introduction to Classical Anarchism. Burlington: Ashgate Publishing. pp. 104–105. ISBN 978-0-7546-6196-2. OCLC 85766067.
Mansfield, Harvey (1995), "Machiavelli and the Idea of Progress",in Melzer; Weinberger; Zinman (eds.), History and the Idea of Progress, Cornell University Press
Celenza, Christopher S. Machiavelli: A Portrait (Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press, 2015) 240 pages. ISBN 9780674416123
^ Leo Strauss. Leo Strauss "Thoughts On Machiavelli". p. 9.
John P. McCormick, Machiavellian democracy (Cambridge University Press, 2011) p. 23
From State to Free-State: The Meaning of the Word Republic from Jean Bodin to John Adams
The Discourses on the First Ten Books of Titus Livius, written around 1517, published in 1531, often referred to simply as the Discourses or Discorsi, is nominally a discussion regarding the classical history of early Ancient Rome, although it strays very far from this subject matter and also uses contemporary political examples to illustrate points. Machiavelli presents it as a series of lessons on how a republic should be started and structured. It is a much larger work than The Prince, and while it more openly explains the advantages of republics, it also contains many similar themes from his other works.[54] For example, Machiavelli has noted that to save a republic from corruption, it is necessary to return it to a "kingly state" using violent means.[55] He excuses Romulus for murdering his brother Remus and co-ruler Titus Tatius to gain absolute power for himself in that he established a "civil way of life".[56] Commentators disagree about how much the two works agree with each other, as Machiavelli frequently refers to leaders of republics as "princes".[57] Machiavelli even sometimes acts as an advisor to tyrants.[58][59] Other scholars have pointed out the aggrandizing and imperialistic features of Machiavelli's republic.[60] Nevertheless, it became one of the central texts of modern republicanism, and has often been argued to be a more comprehensive work than The Prince.[61]
Leo Strauss, Joseph Cropsey, History of Political Philosophy (1987) p. 300
Thompson, C. Bradley (1995), "John Adams's Machiavellian Moment", The Review of Politics, 57 (3): 389–417, doi:10.1017/S0034670500019689, S2CID 154074090. Also in Rahe (2006).
6Works											Toggle Works subsection																					6.1Political and historical works																											6.2Fictional works																											6.3Other works
Gilbert, Allan (1938), Machiavelli's Prince and Its Forerunners, Duke University Press
^ Smith, Lucinda (25 July 2017). "An epic for our times: How Game of Thrones reached highbrow status". Prospect. Retrieved 8 February 2018.
Viroli, Maurizio (9 January 2002). Niccolo's Smile: A Biography of Machiavelli. Macmillan. p. 105. ISBN 9780374528003.
Guarini, Elena (1999), "Machiavelli and the crisis of the Italian republics",in Bock, Gisela; Skinner, Quentin; Viroli, Maurizio (eds.), Machiavelli and Republicanism, Cambridge University Press
One of the most important early works dedicated to criticism of Machiavelli, especially The Prince, was that of the Huguenot, Innocent Gentillet, whose work commonly referred to as Discourse against Machiavelli or Anti Machiavel was published in Geneva in 1576.[90] He accused Machiavelli of being an atheist and accused politicians of his time by saying that his works were the "Koran of the courtiers", that "he is of no reputation in the court of France which hath not Machiavel's writings at the fingers ends".[91] Another theme of Gentillet was more in the spirit of Machiavelli himself: he questioned the effectiveness of immoral strategies (just as Machiavelli had himself done, despite also explaining how they could sometimes work). This became the theme of much future political discourse in Europe during the 17th century. This includes the Catholic Counter Reformation writers summarised by Bireley: Giovanni Botero, Justus Lipsius, Carlo Scribani, Adam Contzen, Pedro de Ribadeneira, and Diego de Saavedra Fajardo.[92] These authors criticized Machiavelli, but also followed him in many ways. They accepted the need for a prince to be concerned with reputation, and even a need for cunning and deceit, but compared to Machiavelli, and like later modernist writers, they emphasized economic progress much more than the riskier ventures of war. These authors tended to cite Tacitus as their source for realist political advice, rather than Machiavelli, and this pretense came to be known as "Tacitism".[93] "Black tacitism" was in support of princely rule, but "red tacitism" arguing the case for republics, more in the original spirit of Machiavelli himself, became increasingly important.
Machiavelli's success did not last. In August 1512, the Medici, backed by Pope Julius II, used Spanish troops to defeat the Florentines at Prato.[34] In the wake of the siege, Soderini resigned as Florentine head of state and left in exile. The experience would, like Machiavelli's time in foreign courts and with the Borgia, heavily influence his political writings.The Florentine city-state and the republic were dissolved, and Machiavelli was deprived of office and banished from the city for a year.[35] In 1513, the Medici accused him of conspiracy against them and had him imprisoned.[36] Despite being subjected to torture[35] ("with the rope", in which the prisoner is hanged from his bound wrists from the back, forcing the arms to bear the body's weight and dislocating the shoulders), he denied involvement and was released after three weeks.
In the seventeenth century it was in England that Machiavelli's ideas were most substantially developed and adapted, and that republicanism came once more to life; and out of seventeenth-century English republicanism there were to emerge in the next century not only a theme of English political and historical reflection—of the writings of the Bolingbroke circle and of Gibbon and of early parliamentary radicals—but a stimulus to the Enlightenment in Scotland, on the Continent, and in America.[106]
^ For example: "Niccolo Machiavelli – Italian statesman and writer". and "Niccolò Machiavelli". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 1 November 2018.
Some scholars note the similarity between Machiavelli and the Greek historian Thucydides, since both emphasized power politics.[67][68] Strauss argued that Machiavelli may indeed have been influenced by pre-Socratic philosophers, but he felt it was a new combination:
^ Ernst Cassirer, The Myth of the State, (1946) p. 136, online Archived 18 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine
5Influence											Toggle Influence subsection																					5.120th century																											5.2"Machiavellian"																											5.3In popular culture
^ Maurizio Viroli, Niccolò's Smile: A Biography of Machiavelli (2000), ch 1
The Art of War, Niccolò Machiavelli. Da Capo press edition, 2001, with introduction by Neal Wood.
Jonathan Jones (16 April 2013). "Da Vinci's Demons: the new TV show that totally reinvents Leonardo's life". The Guardian. Retrieved 10 March 2014.
Martelli, Mario (1998b), "Machiavelli politico amante poeta", Interpres XVII, pp. 211–56.
^ Skinner, Quentin (12 October 2000). Machiavelli: A Very Short Introduction. OUP Oxford. p. 36. ISBN 9780191540349.
Parsons, William B. (2016), Machiavelli's Gospel, University of Rochester Press, ISBN 9781580464918
Mansfield, Harvey (1998) Machiavelli's Virtue Archived 18 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine, page 233
^ "Machiavelli". The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (5th ed.). HarperCollins. Retrieved 9 February 2022.
^ Marcia Landy, "Culture and Politics in the work of Antonio Gramsci," 167–88, in Antonio Gramsci: Intellectuals, Culture, and the Party, ed. James Martin (New York: Routledge, 2002).
"Machiavelli". The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (5th ed.). HarperCollins. Retrieved 9 February 2022.
On the Method of Dealing with the Rebellious Peoples of Valdichiana
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
^ Mansfield, Harvey C. (25 February 1998). Machiavelli's Virtue. University of Chicago Press. pp. 228–229. ISBN 9780226503721.
Sasso, Gennaro (1993), Machiavelli: storia del suo pensiero politico, II vol., Bologna, Il Mulino,
This point is made especially in The Prince, Chap XII
Shklar, J. (1999). "Montesquieu and the new republicanism".In Bock, Gisela; Skinner, Quentin; Viroli, Maurizio (eds.). Machiavelli and Republicanism. Cambridge University Press.
Bondanella, Peter, and Mark Musa, eds. The Portable Machiavelli (1979)
Martelli, Mario (1985–1986), "Schede sulla cultura di Machiavelli", Interpres VI, pp. 283–330.
^ The Latin legend reads: TANTO NOMINI NULLUM PAR ELOGIUM ("So great a name (has) no adequate praise" or "No eulogy (would be) a match for such a great name" or "There is no praise equal to so great a name.")
Pocock, J. G. A. (20 September 2016). The Machiavellian Moment: Florentine Political Thought and the Atlantic Republican Tradition. Princeton University Press. ISBN 9781400883516.
^ Niccolo Machiavelli Biography – Life of Florentine Republic Official, 13 December 2013
"Da Vinci's Demons: the new TV show that totally reinvents Leonardo's life"
^ "First-time Machiavelli translation debuts at Yale". yaledailynews.com. 18 April 2012.
Mansfield, Harvey C. (25 February 1998). Machiavelli's Virtue. University of Chicago Press. pp. 228–229. ISBN 9780226503721.
^ Ashurst, Sam (20 July 2017). "The 7 most wildly inaccurate historical dramas on TV". Digital Spy. Retrieved 8 February 2018.
^ Paul Anthony Rahe, Against throne and altar: Machiavelli and political theory under the English Republic (2008), p. 282
Carrese "The Machiavellian Spirit of Montesquieu's Liberal Republic" in Rahe (2006)
^ Najemy, John M. (2010). The Cambridge Companion to Machiavelli. Cambridge University Press. p. 259.
Roger Masters (1998), Fortune is a River: Leonardo Da Vinci and Niccolò Machiavelli's Magnificent Dream to Change the Course of Florentine History, Simon & Schuster, ISBN 978-0-452-28090-8 Also available in Chinese (ISBN 9789572026113), Japanese (ISBN 9784022597588), German (ISBN 9783471794029), Portuguese (ISBN 9788571104969), and Korean (ISBN 9788984070059). See also NYT book review Archived 18 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine.
Ashurst, Sam (20 July 2017). "The 7 most wildly inaccurate historical dramas on TV". Digital Spy. Retrieved 8 February 2018.
Niccolò di Bernardo dei Machiavelli (/ˌmækiəˈvɛli/ MAK-ee-ə-VEL-ee, US also /ˌmɑːk-/ MAHK-,[6][7] Italian: [nikkoˈlɔ mmakjaˈvɛlli];[a] 3 May 1469 – 21 June 1527), was an Italian diplomat, author, philosopher and historian who lived during the Renaissance. He is best known for his political treatise The Prince (Il Principe), written around 1513 but not published until 1532.[8] He has often been called the father of modern political philosophy and political science.[9]
Rahe, Paul (1992), Republics Ancient and Modern: Classical Republicanism and the American Revolution online edition Archived 23 September 2009 at the Wayback Machine
The Private Correspondence of Niccolò Machiavelli, ed. by Orestes Ferrara; (1929) online edition Archived 23 June 2009 at the Wayback Machine
^ Zuckert, Catherine H. (25 April 2017). Machiavelli's Politics. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-43480-3.
^ Especially in the Discourses III.30, but also The Prince Chap.VI
Xenophon, Plutarch, Petrarch, Tacitus, Polybius, Sallust, Livy, Thucydides, Dante Alighieri, Ibn Khaldun, Ibn Zafar, Gemistos Plethon, Marsilio Ficino
Ritratti delle cose di Francia (1510) – Portrait of the affairs of France.
Scholars such as Leo Strauss and Harvey Mansfield have stated that sections of The Prince and his other works have deliberately esoteric statements throughout them.[52] However, Mansfield states that this is the result of Machiavelli's seeing grave and serious things as humorous because they are "manipulable by men", and sees them as grave because they "answer human necessities".[53]
Barbuto, Marcelo (2008), "Discorsi, I, XII, 12–14. La Chiesa romana di fronte alla republica cristiana", Filosofia Politica, 1, Il Mulino, Bologna, pp. 99–116.
"When Isms go to War | StratBlog". 29 October 2013. Archived from the original on 29 October 2013. Retrieved 29 October 2019.
Martelli, Mario (2004), "La Mandragola e il suo prologo", Interpres, XXIII, pp. 106–42.
The Prince ed. by Rufus Goodwin and Benjamin Martinez (2003) excerpt and text search Archived 17 March 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Joseph Stalin read The Prince and annotated his own copy.[114]
"'Assassin's Creed' Timeline, Explained: From Ancient Civilizations and Greek Gods to Vikings and Pirates"
Descrizione del modo tenuto dal Duca Valentino nello ammazzare Vitellozzo Vitelli, Oliverotto da Fermo, il Signor Pagolo e il duca di Gravina Orsini
^ Niccolò Machiavelli (1996), Machiavelli and his friends: Their personal correspondence, Northern Illinois University Press, translated and edited by James B. Atkinson and David Sices.
Strauss, Leo; Cropsey, Joseph (15 June 2012). History of Political Philosophy. University of Chicago Press. p. 297. ISBN 9780226924717.
Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Niccolò Machiavelli" . Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
Danford "Getting Our Bearings: Machiavelli and Hume" in Rahe (2006).
^ Leo Strauss, Joseph Cropsey, History of Political Philosophy (1987) p. 300
^ Machiavelli, Niccolo (1984). The Prince. Oxford, NY: Oxford University Press. pp. 59–60. ISBN 0-19-281602-0.
Baron, Hans. The Crisis of the Early Italian Renaissance: Civic Humanism and Republican Liberty in an Age of Classicism and Tyranny (2 vol 1955), highly influential, deep study of civic humanism (republicanism); 700 pp. excerpts and text search; ACLS E-books; also vol 2 in ACLS E-books
^ Godman (1998, p. 240). Also see Black (1999, pp. 97–98)
Fischer, Markus (2000), Well-ordered License: On the Unity of Machiavelli's Thought, Lexington Book
Martelli, Mario (1998a), Machiavelli e gli storici antichi, osservazioni su alcuni luoghi dei discorsi sopra la prima deca di Tito Livio, Quaderni di Filologia e critica, 13, Salerno Editrice, Roma.
The 20th-century Italian Communist Antonio Gramsci drew great inspiration from Machiavelli's writings on ethics, morals, and how they relate to the State and revolution in his writings on Passive Revolution, and how a society can be manipulated by controlling popular notions of morality.[113]
^ Mansfield, Harvey C. (15 April 2001). Machiavelli's New Modes and Orders: A Study of the Discourses on Livy. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226503707.
Discorsi sopra la prima deca di Tito Livio (2001), ed. by Francesco Bausi, Edizione Nazionale delle Opere di Niccolò Machiavelli, II vol. Salerno Editrice, Roma.
^ Strauss, Leo (4 July 2014). Thoughts on Machiavelli. University of Chicago Press. p. 9. ISBN 978-0-226-23097-9.
The major difference between Machiavelli and the Socratics, according to Strauss, is Machiavelli's materialism, and therefore his rejection of both a teleological view of nature and of the view that philosophy is higher than politics. With their teleological understanding of things, Socratics argued that by nature, everything that acts, acts towards some end, as if nature desired them, but Machiavelli claimed that such things happen by blind chance or human action.[66]
Joshua Kaplan, "Political Theory: The Classic Texts and their Continuing Relevance," The Modern Scholar (14 lectures in the series; lecture #7 / disc 4), 2005.
History of Florence online 1901 edition Archived 20 September 2008 at the Wayback Machine
Del modo di trattare i popoli della Valdichiana ribellati (1502)
Machiavelli, Niccolò (2009), The Prince, London: Penguin, ISBN 978-1-84614-044-0. Translated by Tim Parks
Istorie Fiorentine (1520–1525) – Florentine Histories, an eight-volume history of the city-state Florence, commissioned by Giulio de' Medici, later Pope Clement VII.
^ Bireley, Robert (1990), The Counter Reformation Prince, p. 14
Gilbert, Allan H. ed. Machiavelli: The Chief Works and Others, (3 vol. 1965), the standard scholarly edition
Paul Anthony Rahe, Against throne and altar: Machiavelli and political theory under the English Republic (2008), p. 282
Niccolò Machiavelli (1996), Machiavelli and his friends: Their personal correspondence, Northern Illinois University Press, translated and edited by James B. Atkinson and David Sices.
The Art of War, University of Chicago Press, edited with new translation and commentary by Christopher Lynch (2003)
At the start of the 16th century, Machiavelli conceived of a militia for Florence, and he then began recruiting and creating it.[31] He distrusted mercenaries (a distrust that he explained in his official reports and then later in his theoretical works for their unpatriotic and uninvested nature in the war that makes their allegiance fickle and often unreliable when most needed),[32] and instead staffed his army with citizens, a policy that was to be repeatedly successful. By February 1506 he was able to have marching on parade four hundred farmers, suited (including iron breastplates), and armed with lances and small fire arms.[31] Under his command, Florentine citizen-soldiers defeated Pisa in 1509.[33]
^ Viroli, Maurizio (9 January 2002). Niccolo's Smile: A Biography of Machiavelli. Macmillan. p. 105. ISBN 9780374528003.
The first English edition was A Discourse upon the meanes of wel governing and maintaining in good peace, a Kingdome, or other principalitie, translated by Simon Patericke.
Machiavelli, Niccolò (1985), The Prince, University of Chicago Press. Translated by Harvey Mansfield
"MACHIAVEL English Definition and Meaning | Lexico.com". Lexico Dictionaries. Archived from the original on 16 May 2021. Retrieved 31 December 2021.
Bock, Gisela; Skinner, Quentin; Viroli, Maurizio, eds. (1993). Machiavelli and Republicanism. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-43589-5.
^ Najemy, John M. (15 January 2019). Between Friends: Discourses of Power and Desire in the Machiavelli-Vettori Letters of 1513–1515. Princeton University Press. ISBN 9780691656649.
Smith, Lucinda (25 July 2017). "An epic for our times: How Game of Thrones reached highbrow status". Prospect. Retrieved 8 February 2018.
Especially in the Discourses III.30, but also The Prince Chap.VI
^ Rahe, Paul A. (14 November 2005). Machiavelli's Liberal Republican Legacy. Cambridge University Press. p. 3. ISBN 9781139448338.
Skinner, Quentin. Machiavelli: A Very Short Introduction (2d ed., 2019) ISBN 978-0-19-883757-2 pbk.
Niccolo Machiavelli Biography – Life of Florentine Republic Official, 13 December 2013
Unger, Miles J. Machiavelli: A Biography (Simon & Schuster, 2011)
For example: Smith, Gregory B. (2008). Between Eternities: On the Tradition of Political Philosophy, Past, Present, and Future. Lexington Books. p. 65. ISBN 9780739120774., Whelan, Frederick G. (2004). Hume and Machiavelli: Political Realism and Liberal Thought. Lexington Books. p. 29. ISBN 9780739106310., Strauss (15 October 1988). What is Political Philosophy? And Other Studies. University of Chicago Press. p. 41. ISBN 9780226777139.
^ "Discourses on Livy: Book 1, Chapter 18". www.constitution.org. Retrieved 9 May 2019.
Concerning the differences and similarities in Machiavelli's advice to ruthless and tyrannical princes in The Prince and his more republican exhortations in Discourses on Livy, a few commentators assert that The Prince, although written as advice for a monarchical prince, contains arguments for the superiority of republican regimes, similar to those found in the Discourses. In the 18th century, the work was even called a satire, for example by Jean-Jacques Rousseau.[50][51]
Epistolario privado. Las cartas que nos desvelan el pensamiento y la personalidad de uno de los intelectuales más importantes del Renacimiento, Juan Manuel Forte (edición y traducción), Madrid, La Esfera de los Libros, 2007, 435 págs, ISBN 978-84-9734-661-0
^ "Even such men as Malatesta and Machiavelli, after spending their lives in estrangement from the Church, sought on their death-beds her assistance and consolations. Both made good confessions and received the Holy Viaticum." – Ludwig von Pastor, History of the Popes, Vol. 5, p. 137.
The Prince ed. by Peter Bondanella (1998) 101 pp online edition Archived 25 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine
Literature for Young Adults: Books (and More) for Contemporary Readers
The Discourses, online 1772 edition Archived 15 August 2012 at the Wayback Machine
Machiavelli, Niccolò (1992), The Prince, New York: W.W. Norton & Company, ISBN 0-393-96220-2. Translated by Robert M. Adams (Norton Critical Edition, 2nd ed., with "Backgrounds, Interpretations, Marginalia").
de Grazia, Sebastian (1989), Machiavelli in Hell, ISBN 978-0679743422, an intellectual biography that won the Pulitzer Prize; excerpt and text search Archived 9 March 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Roger Masters (1996), Machiavelli, Leonardo and the Science of Power, University of Notre Dame Press, ISBN 978-0-268-01433-9 See also NYT book review Archived 18 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine.
The importance of Machiavelli's influence is notable in many important figures in this endeavor, for example Bodin,[95] Francis Bacon,[96] Algernon Sidney,[97] Harrington, John Milton,[98] Spinoza,[99] Rousseau, Hume,[100] Edward Gibbon, and Adam Smith. Although he was not always mentioned by name as an inspiration, due to his controversy, he is also thought to have been an influence for other major philosophers, such as Montaigne,[101] Descartes,[102] Hobbes, Locke[103] and Montesquieu.[104][105]
Commentators such as Leo Strauss have gone so far as to name Machiavelli as the deliberate originator of modernity itself. Others have argued that Machiavelli is only a particularly interesting example of trends which were happening around him. In any case Machiavelli presented himself at various times as someone reminding Italians of the old virtues of the Romans and Greeks, and other times as someone promoting a completely new approach to politics.[62]
Machiavelli, Niccolò (1981). The Prince and Selected Discourses. Translated by Daniel Donno (Bantam Classic ed.). New York: Bantam Books. ISBN 0-553-21227-3.
Machiavelli is played by Damian Lewis in the 2013 BBC radio play The Prince written by Jonathan Myerson. Together with his defence attorney Lucrezia Borgia (Helen McCrory), he presents examples from history to the devil to support his political theories and appeal his sentence in Hell.[133]
Connell, William J. (2015), Machiavelli nel Rinascimento italiano, Milano, Franco Angeli.
Martelli, Mario (1974), "L´altro Niccolò di Bernardo Machiavelli", Rinascimento, XIV, pp. 39–100.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Airaksinen, Timo (2001). The philosophy of the Marquis de Sade. Taylor & Francis e-Library. p. 20. ISBN 0-203-17439-9. Two of Sade's own intellectual heroes were Niccolò Machiavelli and Thomas Hobbes, both of whom he interpreted in the traditional manner to recommend wickedness as an ingredient of virtue.
Ridolfi, Roberto (17 June 2013). The Life of Niccolò Machiavelli. Routledge. p. 28. ISBN 9781135026615.
On the other hand, humanism in Machiavelli's time meant that classical pre-Christian ideas about virtue and prudence, including the possibility of trying to control one's future, were not unique to him. But humanists did not go so far as to promote the extra glory of deliberately aiming to establish a new state, in defiance of traditions and laws.
Theodosiadis, Michail (June–August 2021). "From Hobbes and Locke to Machiavelli's virtù in the political context of meliorism: popular eucosmia and the value of moral memory". Polis Revista. 11: 25–60.
"Spinoza's Political Philosophy". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2013. Retrieved 19 March 2011.
William R. Everdell's article "From State to Free-State: The Meaning of the Word Republic from Jean Bodin to John Adams" with extensive discussion of Machiavelli
^ Bireley (1990:17): "Jean Bodin's first comments, found in his Method for the Easy Comprehension of History, published in 1566, were positive."
The Foundations of Modern Political Thought: Volume 1, The Renaissance
Machiavelli, Niccolo (1984). The Prince. Oxford, NY: Oxford University Press. pp. 59–60. ISBN 0-19-281602-0.
The historical novel The City of Man (2009) by author Michael Harrington fully portrays the complex personalities of the two main characters – Girolamo Savonarola and a formative Niccolò Machiavelli – in opposition during the turbulent last decade of 15th-century Florence. The portrayal of Machiavelli draws from his later writings and observations of the chaotic events of his youth before rising from obscurity to be appointed as Second Chancellor of the Florentine Republic at the age of twenty-nine, only one month after Savonarola's execution. Major characters include Lorenzo de' Medici, his son Piero, Michelangelo, Sandro Botticelli, Pico della Mirandola, Marsilio Ficino, Pope Alexander VI (Rodrigo Borgia), Cesare Borgia (model for The Prince), Piero and Tommaso Soderini, Il Cronaca and the diarist, Luca Landucci.
Gilbert (1938) summarized the similarities between The Prince and the genre it obviously imitates, the so-called "Mirror of Princes" style. This was a classically influenced genre, with models at least as far back as Xenophon and Isocrates. While Gilbert emphasized the similarities, however, he agreed with all other commentators that Machiavelli was particularly novel in the way he used this genre, even when compared to his contemporaries such as Baldassare Castiglione and Erasmus. One of the major innovations Gilbert noted was that Machiavelli focused upon the "deliberate purpose of dealing with a new ruler who will need to establish himself in defiance of custom". Normally, these types of works were addressed only to hereditary princes. (Xenophon is also an exception in this regard.)
Najemy, John M. (1996), "Baron's Machiavelli and Renaissance Republicanism", American Historical Review, 101 (1): 119–29, doi:10.2307/2169227, JSTOR 2169227.
^ "The Tudors Season 1 Episode 2 – Simply Henry". The Anne Boleyn Files. 22 March 2011. Retrieved 8 February 2018.
^ Also occasionally rendered in English as Nicholas Machiavel (/ˈmækiəvɛl/ MAK-ee-ə-vel, US also /ˈmɑːk-/ MAHK-)
^ Kanzler, Peter (22 June 2020). The Prince (1532), The Leviathan (1651), The Two Treatises of Government (1689), The Constitution of Pennsylvania (1776). p. 22. ISBN 9781716844508.
^ Machiavelli, Niccolò (27 February 2009). Discourses on Livy. University of Chicago Press. p. 131. ISBN 9780226500331.
Chabod, Federico (1958). Machiavelli & the Renaissance online edition Archived 19 June 2009 at the Wayback Machine; online from ACLS E-Books Archived 20 August 2008 at the Wayback Machine
Hulliung, Mark (5 July 2017). Citizen Machiavelli. Routledge. ISBN 9781351528481.
Sullivan, Vickie B., ed. (2000), The Comedy and Tragedy of Machiavelli: Essays on the Literary Works, Yale U. Press
Viroli, Maurizio (9 January 2002). Niccolo's Smile: A Biography of Machiavelli. Macmillan. pp. 81–86. ISBN 9780374528003.
Dell'Arte della Guerra (1519–1520) – The Art of War, high military science.
Black, Robert. Machiavelli: From Radical to Reactionary. London: Reaktion Books (2022)
Burd, L. A., "Florence (II): Machiavelli" in Cambridge Modern History (1902), vol. I, ch. vi. pp. 190–218 online Google edition
Ernst Cassirer, The Myth of the State, (1946) p. 136, online Archived 18 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine
Gilbert, Felix. "Machiavelli: The Renaissance of the Art of War," in Edward Mead Earle, ed. The Makers of Modern Strategy (1944)
^ Bacon wrote: "We are much beholden to Machiavelli and other writers of that class who openly and unfeignedly declare or describe what men do, and not what they ought to do." "II.21.9", Of the Advancement of Learning. See Kennington (2004) Chapter 4.
Arendt, Hannah (1988). The Human Condition. Chicago: Chicago University Press. p. 77.
In the first decade of the sixteenth century, he carried out several diplomatic missions, most notably to the Papacy in Rome. Florence sent him to Pistoia to pacify the leaders of two opposing factions which had broken into riots in 1501 and 1502; when this failed, the leaders were banished from the city, a strategy which Machiavelli had favored from the outset.[29] From 1502 to 1503, he witnessed the brutal reality of the state-building methods of Cesare Borgia (1475–1507) and his father, Pope Alexander VI, who were then engaged in the process of trying to bring a large part of Central Italy under their possession.[30] The pretext of defending Church interests was used as a partial justification by the Borgias. Other excursions to the court of Louis XII and the Spanish court influenced his writings such as The Prince.
Whelan, Frederick G. (2004), Hume and Machiavelli: Political Realism and Liberal Thought, Lexington
^ Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Niccolò Machiavelli" . Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
Najemy, John M. (2010). The Cambridge Companion to Machiavelli. Cambridge University Press. p. 259.
Connell, William J. (2001), "Machiavelli on Growth as an End," in Anthony Grafton and J.H.M. Salmon, eds., Historians and Ideologues: Essays in Honor of Donald R. Kelley, Rochester: University of Rochester Press, 259–277.
Everdell, William R. "Niccolò Machiavelli: The Florentine Commune" in The End of Kings: A History of Republics and Republicans. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2000.
^ Pflanze, Otto (1958). "Bismarck's "Realpolitik"". The Review of Politics. 20 (4): 492–514. doi:10.1017/S0034670500034185. ISSN 0034-6705. JSTOR 1404857. S2CID 144663704.
Martelli, Mario and Bausi, Francesco (1997), "Politica, storia e letteratura: Machiavelli e Guicciardini", Storia della letteratura italiana, E. Malato (ed.), vol. IV. Il primo Cinquecento, Salerno Editrice, Roma, pp. 251–320.
Mansfield, Harvey C. (25 February 1998). Machiavelli's Virtue. ISBN 9780226503721.
The Machiavellian Moment: Florentine Political Thought and the Atlantic Republican Tradition
2Major works											Toggle Major works subsection																					2.1The Prince																											2.2Discourses on Livy
Mansfield, Harvey (1993), Taming the Prince, The Johns Hopkins University Press
Skinner, Quentin. The Foundations of Modern Political Thought, v. I, The Renaissance, (1978)
Asino d'oro (1517) – The Golden Ass is a terza rima poem, a new version of the classic work by Apuleius.
Machiavelli is the only political thinker whose name has come into common use for designating a kind of politics, which exists and will continue to exist independently of his influence, a politics guided exclusively by considerations of expediency, which uses all means, fair or foul, iron or poison, for achieving its ends—its end being the aggrandizement of one's country or fatherland—but also using the fatherland in the service of the self-aggrandizement of the politician or statesman or one's party.
Machiavelli is most famous for a short political treatise, The Prince, written in 1513 but not published until 1532, five years after his death. Although he privately circulated The Prince among friends, the only theoretical work to be printed in his lifetime was The Art of War, which was about military science. Since the 16th century, generations of politicians remain attracted and repelled by its neutral acceptance, and also positive encouragement, of the amorality of powerful men, described especially in The Prince but also in his other works.
^ Danford "Getting Our Bearings: Machiavelli and Hume" in Rahe (2006).
Kanzler, Peter (22 June 2020). The Prince (1532), The Leviathan (1651), The Two Treatises of Government (1689), The Constitution of Pennsylvania (1776). p. 22. ISBN 9781716844508.
Machiavelli felt that his early schooling along the lines of a traditional classical education was essentially useless for the purpose of understanding politics. Nevertheless, he advocated intensive study of the past, particularly regarding the founding of a city, which he felt was a key to understanding its later development.[69] Moreover, he studied the way people lived and aimed to inform leaders how they should rule and even how they themselves should live. Machiavelli denies the classical opinion that living virtuously always leads to happiness. For example, Machiavelli viewed misery as "one of the vices that enables a prince to rule."[70] Machiavelli stated that "it would be best to be both loved and feared. But since the two rarely come together, anyone compelled to choose will find greater security in being feared than in being loved."[71] In much of Machiavelli's work, he often states that the ruler must adopt unsavory policies for the sake of the continuance of his regime.
Mandragola (1518) – The Mandrake – a five-act prose comedy, with a verse prologue.
In English Renaissance theatre (Elizabethan and Jacobian), the term "Machiavel" (from 'Nicholas Machiavel', an "anglicization" of Machiavelli's name based on French) was used for a stock antagonist that resorted to ruthless means to preserve the power of the state, and is now considered a synonym of "Machiavellian".[121][122]
^ The Prince, Chapter XVIII, "In What Mode Should Faith Be Kept By Princes"
9Further reading											Toggle Further reading subsection																					9.1Biographies																											9.2Political thought																											9.3Italian studies																											9.4Editions
^ Machiavelli, Niccolò (27 February 2009). Discourses on Livy: Book One, Chapter 9. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226500331.
Berlin, Isaiah. "The Originality of Machiavelli" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 December 2012. Retrieved 18 October 2012.
Bireley (1990:17): "Jean Bodin's first comments, found in his Method for the Easy Comprehension of History, published in 1566, were positive."
^ a b Joshua Kaplan (2005). "Political Theory: The Classic Texts and their Continuing Relevance". The Modern Scholar. 14 lectures in the series; (lectures #7) – see disc 4
^ Review by Jann Racquoi, Heights/Inwood Press of North Manhattan, 14 March 1979.
^ Rahe, Paul A. (14 November 2005). Machiavelli's Liberal Republican Legacy. Cambridge University Press. pp. xxxvi. ISBN 978-1-139-44833-8.
"Niccolo Machiavelli | Biography, Books, Philosophy, & Facts". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 28 July 2019.
Hale, J. R. Machiavelli and Renaissance Italy (1961) online edition Archived 19 June 2009 at the Wayback Machine
Cassirer, Ernst (1946). The Myth of the State. Yale University Press. pp. 141–145. ISBN 9780300000368. ernst cassirer the myth of the state.
Scholars often note that Machiavelli glorifies instrumentality in state building, an approach embodied by the saying, often attributed to interpretations of The Prince, "The ends justify the means".[46] Fraud and deceit are held by Machiavelli as necessary for a prince to use.[47] Violence may be necessary for the successful stabilization of power and introduction of new political institutions. Force may be used to eliminate political rivals, to destroy resistant populations, and to purge the community of other men strong enough of a character to rule, who will inevitably attempt to replace the ruler.[48] Machiavelli has become infamous for such political advice, ensuring that he would be remembered in history through the adjective, "Machiavellian".[49]
Barnes Smith "The Philosophy of Liberty: Locke's Machiavellian Teaching" in Rahe (2006).
Skinner, Quentin (12 October 2000). Machiavelli: A Very Short Introduction. OUP Oxford. p. 36. ISBN 9780191540349.
^ Machiavelli, Niccolò (15 May 2010). The Prince: Second Edition. University of Chicago Press. pp. 69–71. ISBN 9780226500508.
Marriott, W. K. (2008), The Prince, Red and Black Publishers ISBN 978-1-934941-00-3
Machiavelli was born in Florence, Italy, the third child and first son of attorney Bernardo di Niccolò Machiavelli and his wife, Bartolomea di Stefano Nelli.[22] The Machiavelli family is believed to be descended from the old marquesses of Tuscany and to have produced thirteen Florentine Gonfalonieres of Justice,[23] one of the offices of a group of nine citizens selected by drawing lots every two months and who formed the government, or Signoria; he was never, though, a full citizen of Florence because of the nature of Florentine citizenship in that time even under the republican regime. Machiavelli married Marietta Corsini in 1502.[24]
^ Sil, Narasingha Prosad (1985). Kauṭilya's Arthaśāstra: A Comparative Study. Academic Publishers Calcutta. p. 217.
Joshua Kaplan (2005). "Political Theory: The Classic Texts and their Continuing Relevance". The Modern Scholar. 14 lectures in the series; (lectures #7) – see disc 4
Four Seminal Thinkers in International Theory: Machiavelli, Grotius, Kant, and Mazzini
Strauss, Leo (1958), Thoughts on Machiavelli, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, ISBN 978-0-226-77702-3
...contemporary readers are reminded by Machiavelli's teaching of Thucydides; they find in both authors the same "realism," i.e., the same denial of the power of the gods or of justice and the same sensitivity to harsh necessity and elusive chance. Yet Thucydides never calls in question the intrinsic superiority of nobility to baseness, a superiority that shines forth particularly when the noble is destroyed by the base. Therefore Thucydides' History arouses in the reader a sadness which is never aroused by Machiavelli's books. In Machiavelli we find comedies, parodies, and satires but nothing reminding of tragedy. One half of humanity remains outside of his thought. There is no tragedy in Machiavelli because he has no sense of the sacredness of "the common." — Strauss (1958, p. 292)
Lee, Alexander. Machiavelli: His Life and Times (London: Picador, 2020)
Oppenheimer, Paul. Machiavelli: A Life Beyond Ideology (London; New York: Continuum, 2011) ISBN 9781847252210
Somerset Maugham's last book Then and Now fictionalizes Machiavelli's interactions with Cesare Borgia, which formed the foundation of The Prince.
While Machiavellianism is notable in the works of Machiavelli, scholars generally agree that his works are complex and have equally influential themes within them. For example, J.G.A. Pocock (1975) saw him as a major source of the republicanism that spread throughout England and North America in the 17th and 18th centuries and Leo Strauss (1958), whose view of Machiavelli is quite different in many ways, had similar remarks about Machiavelli's influence on republicanism and argued that even though Machiavelli was a teacher of evil he had a "grandeur of vision" that led him to advocate immoral actions. Whatever his intentions, which are still debated today, he has become associated with any proposal where "the end justifies the means". For example, Leo Strauss (1987, p. 297) wrote:
The Life of Castruccio Castracani of Lucca (1520) – Vita di Castruccio Castracani da Lucca, a short biography.
Martelli, Mario (1982) "La logica provvidenzialistica e il capitolo XXVI del Principe", Interpres IV, pp. 262–384.
Najemy (1993) has argued that this same approach can be found in Machiavelli's approach to love and desire, as seen in his comedies and correspondence. Najemy shows how Machiavelli's friend Vettori argued against Machiavelli and cited a more traditional understanding of fortune.
Amongst commentators, there are a few consistently made proposals concerning what was most new in Machiavelli's work.
^ John P. McCormick, Machiavellian democracy (Cambridge University Press, 2011) p. 23
^ The first English edition was A Discourse upon the meanes of wel governing and maintaining in good peace, a Kingdome, or other principalitie, translated by Simon Patericke.
Machiavelli, Niccolò (1995), The Prince, Everyman. Translated and Edited by Stephen J. Milner. Introduction, Notes and other critical apparatus by J.M. Dent.
Martelli, Mario (1998c), "Machiavelli e Savonarola", Savonarola. Democrazia, tirannide, profezia, a cura di G.C. Garfagnini, Florencia, Sismel-Edizioni del Galluzo, pp. 67–89.
^ Strauss, Leo (4 July 2014). Thoughts on Machiavelli. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226230979.
^ Spalding "The American Prince? George Washington's Anti-Machiavellian moment" in Rahe (2006)
Machiavelli, Niccolò (1531). The Discourses. Translated by Leslie J. Walker, S.J, revisions by Brian Richardson (2003). London: Penguin Books. ISBN 0-14-044428-9
Worden, Blair (1999). "Milton's republicanism and the tyranny of heaven".In Bock, Gisela; Skinner, Quentin; Viroli, Maurizio (eds.). Machiavelli and Republicanism. Cambridge University Press.
"Machievelli, Niccolò". Lexico US English Dictionary. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 10 February 2022.
Machiavelli appears in the popular historical video games Assassin's Creed II (2009) and Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood (2010), in which he is portrayed as a member of the secret society of Assassins.[130]
Articles incorporating a citation from the 1913 Catholic Encyclopedia with Wikisource reference
Scott, John T.; Sullivan, Vickie B. (1994). "Patricide and the Plot of the Prince: Cesare Borgia and Machiavelli's Italy". The American Political Science Review. 88 (4): 887–900. doi:10.2307/2082714. ISSN 0003-0554. JSTOR 2082714. S2CID 144798597.
Also occasionally rendered in English as Nicholas Machiavel (/ˈmækiəvɛl/ MAK-ee-ə-vel, US also /ˈmɑːk-/ MAHK-)
Vivanti, Corrado. Niccolò Machiavelli: An Intellectual Biography (Princeton University Press; 2013) 261 pages
Il principe (2006) ed. by Mario Martelli and Nicoletta Marcelli, Edizione Nazionale delle Opere di Niccolò Machiavelli, Salerno Editrice, Roma.
Soll, Jacob (2005), Publishing The Prince: History, Reading and the Birth of Political Criticism, University of Michigan Press
Godman, Peter (1998), From Poliziano to Machiavelli: Florentine Humanism in the High Renaissance, Princeton University Press
The 1967 The Time Tunnel episode "The Death Merchant" stars character actor Malachi Throne as Niccolò Machiavelli, who has been time-displaced to the Battle of Gettysburg. The character's personality and behaviour seem to portray Cesare Borgia rather than Machiavelli himself, suggesting that the writers may have confused the two.
Commentators have taken very different approaches to Machiavelli and not always agreed. Major discussion has tended to be about two issues: first, how unified and philosophical his work is, and second, concerning how innovative or traditional it is.[62]
Machiavelli, Niccolò (27 February 2009). Discourses on Livy, Book 1, Chapter 11–15. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226500331.
Machiavelli's ideas had a profound impact on political leaders throughout the modern west, helped by the new technology of the printing press. During the first generations after Machiavelli, his main influence was in non-republican governments. Pole reported that The Prince was spoken of highly by Thomas Cromwell in England and had influenced Henry VIII in his turn towards Protestantism, and in his tactics, for example during the Pilgrimage of Grace.[87] A copy was also possessed by the Catholic king and emperor Charles V.[88] In France, after an initially mixed reaction, Machiavelli came to be associated with Catherine de' Medici and the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre. As Bireley (1990:17) reports, in the 16th century, Catholic writers "associated Machiavelli with the Protestants, whereas Protestant authors saw him as Italian and Catholic". In fact, he was apparently influencing both Catholic and Protestant kings.[89]
^ a b Maclaine, David. "City of God by Cecelia Holland". Historicalnovels.info. Retrieved 5 September 2014.
Giorgini, Giovanni (2013). "Five Hundred Years of Italian Scholarship on Machiavelli's Prince". Review of Politics. 75 (4): 625–40. doi:10.1017/S0034670513000624. S2CID 146970196.
^ Skinner, Quentin (30 November 1978). The Foundations of Modern Political Thought: Volume 1, The Renaissance. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 9780521293372.
Zuckert, Catherine H. (25 April 2017). Machiavelli's Politics. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-43480-3.
Machiavelli, Niccolò (2016), The Prince with Related Documents (Second ed.), Boston: Bedford/St. Martin's, ISBN 978-1-319-04892-1. Translated by William J. Connell
Works by Niccolò Machiavelli in eBook form at Standard Ebooks
Machiavelli also appears as a young Florentine spy in the third season of Medici, where he is portrayed by Vincenzo Crea. He is addressed as "Nico" in all appearances except the season finale, where he reveals his full name.
Sommario delle cose della citta di Lucca (1520) – A summary of the affairs of the city of Lucca.
Strauss, Leo (4 July 2014). Thoughts on Machiavelli. University of Chicago Press. p. 9. ISBN 978-0-226-23097-9.
^ "Niccolo Machiavelli | Biography, Books, Philosophy, & Facts". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 28 July 2019.
Many historians have argued that this was due to Piero Soderini's unwillingness to compromise with the Medici, who were holding Prato under siege.
Machiavelli died on 21 June 1527 at the age of 58 after receiving his last rites.[39][40] He was buried at the Church of Santa Croce in Florence. In 1789 George Nassau Clavering, and Pietro Leopoldo, Grand Duke of Tuscany, initiated the construction of a monument on Machiavelli's tomb. It was sculpted by Innocenzo Spinazzi, with an epitaph by Doctor Ferroni inscribed on it.[41][b]
Marcia Landy, "Culture and Politics in the work of Antonio Gramsci," 167–88, in Antonio Gramsci: Intellectuals, Culture, and the Party, ed. James Martin (New York: Routledge, 2002).
Similarly, the modern economic argument for capitalism, and most modern forms of economics, was often stated in the form of "public virtue from private vices." Also in this case, even though there are classical precedents, Machiavelli's insistence on being both realistic and ambitious, not only admitting that vice exists but being willing to risk encouraging it, is a critical step on the path to this insight.
Wootton, David, ed. (1994), Selected political writings of Niccolò Machiavelli, Indianapolis: Hackett Pubs. excerpt and text search Archived 16 March 2021 at the Wayback Machine
^ Strauss, Leo; Cropsey, Joseph (15 June 2012). History of Political Philosophy. University of Chicago Press. p. 297. ISBN 9780226924717.
Machiavelli, Niccolò (27 February 2009). Discourses on Livy: Book One, Chapter 9. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226500331.
Wight, Martin (2005).Wight, Gabriele; Porter, Brian (eds.). Four Seminal Thinkers in International Theory: Machiavelli, Grotius, Kant, and Mazzini. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780199273676.
Machiavelli, Niccolò (15 May 2010). The Prince: Second Edition. University of Chicago Press. pp. 69–71. ISBN 9780226500508.
Niccolò Machiavelli aids Cesare Borgia and protagonist Nicholas Dawson in their dangerous intrigues in Cecelia Holland's 1979 historical novel City of God.[126] David Maclaine writes that in the novel, Machiavelli "is an off-stage presence whose spirit permeates this work of intrigue and betrayal ... It is a brilliant introduction to the people and events that gave us the word 'Machiavellian.'"[126] Machiavelli appears as an Immortal adversary of Duncan MacLeod in Nancy Holder's 1997 Highlander novel The Measure of a Man, and is a character in Michael Scott's novel series The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel (2007–2012). Machiavelli is also one of the main characters in The Enchantress of Florence (2008)by Salman Rushdie, mostly referred to as "Niccolò 'il Macchia", and the central protagonist in the 2012 novel The Malice of Fortune by Michael Ennis.
The Seven Books on the Art of War online 1772 edition Archived 16 July 2012 at the Wayback Machine
Political realism, Bacon, Hobbes, Harrington, Rousseau,[1] Vico, Spinoza, Edward Gibbon, David Hume, John Adams, Marquis de Sade,[2] Vincenzo Cuoco, Hegel, Nietzsche, Pareto, Bakunin,[3] Gramsci, Althusser, T. Schelling, Negri, Waltz, Denis Diderot,[4] Carl Schmitt, Giulio Andreotti, Philip Pettit, Strauss, Weber,[5] Sismondi, Hannah Arendt
^ Pocock, J. G. A. (20 September 2016). The Machiavellian Moment: Florentine Political Thought and the Atlantic Republican Tradition. Princeton University Press. ISBN 9781400883516.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Airaksinen, Timo (2001). The philosophy of the Marquis de Sade. Taylor & Francis e-Library. p. 20. ISBN 0-203-17439-9. Two of Sade's own intellectual heroes were Niccolò Machiavelli and Thomas Hobbes, both of whom he interpreted in the traditional manner to recommend wickedness as an ingredient of virtue.
Mattingly, Garrett (Autumn 1958), "Machiavelli's Prince: Political Science or Political Satire?", The American Scholar (27): 482–91.
^ Barnes Smith "The Philosophy of Liberty: Locke's Machiavellian Teaching" in Rahe (2006).
"Jew of Malta, The by MARLOWE, Christopher". Player FM. 2016. Retrieved 12 May 2018.
Baron, Hans (April 1961). "Machiavelli: The Republican Citizen and the Author of 'the Prince'". The English Historical Review. 76 (299): 217–253. doi:10.1093/ehr/LXXVI.CCXCIX.217. JSTOR 557541.
Machiavelli and the Italian City on the BBC's In Our Time with Melvyn Bragg; with Quentin Skinner, Regius Professor of History at the University of Cambridge; Evelyn Welch, Professor of Renaissance Studies at Queen Mary, University of London; Lisa Jardine, Director of the Centre for Editing Lives and Letters at Queen Mary, University of London
"The Warlock by Michael Scott". Penguin Random House Canada. Retrieved 22 January 2021.
"Macchiavelli" . Collier's New Encyclopedia. Vol. 6. 1921. p. 53.
Scholars have argued that Machiavelli was a major indirect and direct influence upon the political thinking of the Founding Fathers of the United States due to his overwhelming favoritism of republicanism and the republican type of government. According to John McCormick, it is still very much debatable whether or not Machiavelli was "an advisor of tyranny or partisan of liberty."[107] Benjamin Franklin, James Madison and Thomas Jefferson followed Machiavelli's republicanism when they opposed what they saw as the emerging aristocracy that they feared Alexander Hamilton was creating with the Federalist Party.[108] Hamilton learned from Machiavelli about the importance of foreign policy for domestic policy, but may have broken from him regarding how rapacious a republic needed to be in order to survive.[109][110] George Washington was less influenced by Machiavelli.[111]
Strauss concludes his 1958 book Thoughts on Machiavelli by proposing that this promotion of progress leads directly to the advent of new technologies being invented in both good and bad governments. Strauss argued that the unavoidable nature of such arms races, which have existed before modern times and led to the collapse of peaceful civilizations, show that classical minded men "had to admit in other words that in an important respect the good city has to take its bearings by the practice of bad cities or that the bad impose their law on the good." Strauss (1958, pp. 298–299)
Andria or The Girl from Andros (1517) – a semi-autobiographical comedy, adapted from Terence.[135]
Strauss, Leo (4 July 2014). Thoughts on Machiavelli. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226230979.
^ "Definition of Machiavellianism". Merriam-Webster's Dictionary. Retrieved 19 June 2019.
Gilbert, Felix. Machiavelli and Guicciardini: Politics and History in Sixteenth-Century Italy (2nd ed. 1984) online from ACLS-E-books Archived 18 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine
4Beliefs											Toggle Beliefs subsection																					4.1Empiricism and realism versus idealism																											4.2Fortune																											4.3Religion																											4.4Positive side to factional and individual vice
Discorso sopra il riformare lo stato di Firenze (1520) – A discourse about the reforming of Florence.
"Machiavelli, Niccolò" . Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 17 (11th ed.). 1911. pp. 233–237.
For example: "Niccolo Machiavelli – Italian statesman and writer". and "Niccolò Machiavelli". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 1 November 2018.
Bacon wrote: "We are much beholden to Machiavelli and other writers of that class who openly and unfeignedly declare or describe what men do, and not what they ought to do." "II.21.9", Of the Advancement of Learning. See Kennington (2004) Chapter 4.
Reform of Florence online 1772 edition Archived 15 August 2012 at the Wayback Machine
Leonardo Archived 29 July 2019 at the Wayback Machine BBC
Della Lingua (Italian for "On the Language") (1514), a dialogue about Italy's language is normally attributed to Machiavelli.
In the 1993 crime drama A Bronx Tale, local mob boss Sonny tells his young protégé Calogero that while he was doing a 10-year sentence in jail, he passed the time and stayed out of trouble by reading Machiavelli, whom he describes as "a famous writer from 500 years ago". He then tells him how Machiavelli's philosophy, including his famous advice about how it is preferable for a leader to be feared rather than loved if he cannot be both, have made him a successful mob boss.
^ Cassirer, Ernst (1946). The Myth of the State. Yale University Press. pp. 141–145. ISBN 9780300000368. ernst cassirer the myth of the state.
Martelli, Mario (2001), "I dettagli della filologia", Interpres XX, pp. 212–71.
Mansfield, Harvey C. (25 February 1998). Machiavelli's Virtue. University of Chicago Press. p. 178. ISBN 9780226503721.
^ Giorgini, Giovanni (2013). "Five Hundred Years of Italian Scholarship on Machiavelli's Prince". Review of Politics. 75 (4): 625–40. doi:10.1017/S0034670513000624. S2CID 146970196.
^ Walling "Was Alexander Hamilton a Machiavellian Statesman?" in Rahe (2006).
The American rapper Tupac Shakur read Machiavelli while in prison and became greatly influenced by his work. Upon his release from prison, Tupac honoured Machiavelli in 1996 by changing his own rap name from 2Pac to Makaveli.[134]
...there were in circulation approximately fifteen editions of the Prince and nineteen of the Discourses and French translations of each before they were placed on the Index of Paul IV in 1559, a measure which nearly stopped publication in Catholic areas except in France. Three principal writers took the field against Machiavelli between the publication of his works and their condemnation in 1559 and again by the Tridentine Index in 1564. These were the English cardinal Reginald Pole and the Portuguese bishop Jeronymo Osorio, both of whom lived for many years in Italy, and the Italian humanist and later bishop, Ambrogio Caterino Politi.
Skinner, Quentin (30 November 1978). The Foundations of Modern Political Thought: Volume 1, The Renaissance. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 9780521293372.
Discorso sopra la provisione del danaro (1502) – A discourse about the provision of money.
For example, The Prince chap. 15, and The Discourses Book I, chapter 9
Machiavelli's literary executor, Giuliano de' Ricci, also reported having seen that Machiavelli, his grandfather, made a comedy in the style of Aristophanes which included living Florentines as characters, and to be titled Le Maschere. It has been suggested that due to such things as this and his style of writing to his superiors generally, there was very likely some animosity to Machiavelli even before the return of the Medici.[136]
Mansfield, Harvey C. (25 February 1998). Machiavelli's Virtue. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226503721.
Celli, Carlo ( 2009), Il carnevale di Machiavelli, Firenze, L.S. Olschki.
Parel, Anthony (1972), "Introduction: Machiavelli's Method and His Interpreters", The Political Calculus: Essays on Machiavelli's Philosophy, Toronto, pp. 3–28
^ Walt, Stephen M. (1987). The Origins of Alliances, Cornell University Press, pp. 95–96
John F. Kennedy: 1962 : containing the public messages, speeches, and statements of the president, January 20 to December 31, 1962
^ Vale, Lawrence J. (2000). From the Puritans to the Projects: Public Housing and Public Neighbors. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. pp. 301–320. ISBN 978-0674025752.
DiEugenio, James. "Nasser, Kennedy, the Middle East, and Israel". www.kennedysandking.com.
"Navy SEALs Were Launched in the JFK 'Man on the Moon' Speech"
"The U.S. Senator John F. Kennedy Story". jfklibrary.org. Archived from the original on August 2, 2016. Retrieved August 25, 2015.
During his presidency, Kennedy continued policies that provided political, economic, and military support to the governments of South Korea and South Vietnam.[191][192]
^ "John F. Kennedy Received "Non-Combat" Recognition for Wartime Action". Defense Media Network, Faircount Media Group. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
"JFK is First Foreign Leader to Address Dáil Éireann (Text and video)"
Attorney General Robert Kennedy took the position that steel executives had illegally colluded to fix prices. He stated, "We're going for broke. [...] their expense accounts, where they've been and what they've been doing. [...] the FBI is to interview them all. [...] we can't lose this."[290] The administration's actions influenced U.S. Steel to rescind the price increase.[291] The Wall Street Journal wrote that the administration had acted "by naked power, by threats, [and] by agents of the state security police".[292] Yale law professor Charles Reich opined in The New Republic that the administration had violated civil liberties by calling a grand jury to indict U.S. Steel for collusion so quickly.[292] An editorial in The New York Times praised Kennedy's actions and said that the steel industry's price increase "imperil[ed] the economic welfare of the country by inviting a tidal wave of inflation".[293] Nevertheless, the administration's Bureau of Budget reported the price increase would have caused a net gain for the GDP as well as a net budget surplus.[294] The stock market, which had steadily declined since Kennedy's election in 1960, dropped 10% shortly after the administration's action on the steel industry took place.[295]
^ "Lieutenant John F. Kennedy, USN". Naval Historical Center. June 18, 2002. Archived from the original on September 12, 2007. Retrieved September 17, 2007.
John F. Kennedy was sworn in as the 35th president at noon on January 20, 1961. In his inaugural address, he spoke of the need for all Americans to be active citizens: "Ask not what your country can do for you—ask what you can do for your country." He asked the nations of the world to join to fight what he called the "common enemies of man: tyranny, poverty, disease, and war itself".[135] He added:
^ "Consumer and Gross Domestic Price Indices: 1913 to 2002" (PDF). U.S. Census Bureau. 2003. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 11, 2005. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
^ a b "Life of John F. Kennedy | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
Gleijeses, Piero (February 1995). "Ships in the Night: The CIA, the White House and the Bay of Pigs". Journal of Latin American Studies. 27 (1): 1–42. doi:10.1017/S0022216X00010154. ISSN 0022-216X. S2CID 146390097 – via Semantic Scholar.
"Record of John F. Kennedy's Naval Service". Naval History & Heritage Command. June 18, 2002. Archived from the original on May 27, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
This crisis brought the world closer to nuclear war than at any point before or after. It is considered that "the humanity" of both Khrushchev and Kennedy prevailed.[174] The crisis improved the image of American willpower and the president's credibility. Kennedy's approval rating increased from 66% to 77% immediately thereafter.[175]
"John F. Kennedy: Executive Order 10980". Retrieved January 25, 2011.
Karnow, Stanley (1991). Vietnam, A History. New York: Viking Press–Random House. ISBN 978-0-670-74604-0.
Bryant, Nick (Autumn 2006). "Black Man Who Was Crazy Enough to Apply to Ole Miss". The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education (53): 31, 60–71. JSTOR 25073538 – via JSTOR.
Vancil, David L.; Pendell, Sue D. (1987). "The myth of viewer‐listener disagreement in the first Kennedy‐Nixon debate". Central States Speech Journal. 38 (1): 16–27. doi:10.1080/10510978709368226.
Clarke, John (May 19, 2015), "Selling J.F.K.'s Boat", The New Yorker, retrieved October 2, 2015
"Vietnam War Allied Troop Levels 1960–73". The American War Library. Archived from the original on August 2, 2016. Retrieved August 2, 2016.
In addition to the various campaign medals received for his war service, Kennedy was awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for his conduct during and after the loss of PT-109, as well as the Purple Heart for being wounded.[1]
^ "Kennedy Letter Opens Campaign For Presidency". Tampa Bay Times. December 18, 1959. p. 1. Archived from the original on March 2, 2020 – via Newspapers.com.
Blanton, Dana (June 18, 2004). "Poll: Most Believe 'Cover-Up' of JFK Assassination Facts". Fox News. Archived from the original on April 16, 2010. Retrieved September 25, 2012.
Bruschke, John; Laura, Divine (March 2017). "Debunking Nixon's radio victory in the 1960 election: Re-analyzing the historical record and considering currently unexamined polling data". The Social Science Journal. 54 (1): 67–75. doi:10.1016/j.soscij.2016.09.007. S2CID 151390817.
Hersh, Seymour. The Dark Side of Camelot (1997, ISBN 978-0-316-35955-9)
List of dignitaries at the state funeral of John F. Kennedy
Despite a privileged youth, Kennedy was plagued by a series of childhood diseases, including whooping cough, chicken pox, measles, and ear infections. These ailments compelled him to spend a considerable amount of time in bed (or at least indoors) convalescing. Three months prior to his third birthday, in 1920, Kennedy came down with scarlet fever, a highly contagious and life-threatening disease, and was admitted to Boston City Hospital.[392][13]
^ Salinger, Pierre (1997). John F. Kennedy: Commander in Chief: A Profile in Leadership. New York: Penguin Studio. p. 97. ISBN 978-0-670-86310-5. Retrieved February 22, 2012.
The Whistleblowers: Cynthia Cooper / Coleen Rowley / Sherron Watkins(2002)
On August 21, just as the new U.S. Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. arrived, Diem and his brother Ngo Dinh Nhu ordered South Vietnam forces, funded and trained by the CIA, to quell Buddhist demonstrations. The crackdowns heightened expectations of a coup d'état to remove Diem with (or perhaps by) his brother, Nhu.[203] Lodge was instructed to try getting Diem and Nhu to step down and leave the country. Diem would not listen to Lodge.[204] Cable 243 (DEPTEL 243) followed, dated August 24, declaring that Washington would no longer tolerate Nhu's actions, and Lodge was ordered to pressure Diem to remove Nhu.[205] Lodge concluded that the only option was to get the South Vietnamese generals to overthrow Diem and Nhu.[206] At week's end, orders were sent to Saigon and throughout Washington to "destroy all coup cables".[207] At the same time, the first formal anti-Vietnam war sentiment was expressed by U.S. clergy from the Ministers' Vietnam Committee.[208]
The Kennedys Archived February 27, 2010, at the Wayback Machine. American Experience. Boston, Massachusetts: WGBH. 2009.
Kennedy was closely tied to popular culture, emphasized by songs such as "Twisting at the White House". Vaughn Meader's First Family comedy album, which parodied the president, the first lady, their family, and the administration, sold about four million copies.
^ Wikisource: John F. Kennedy's Address Before the 18th General Assembly of the United Nations
Launius, Roger D. (July 1994). "Lyndon B. Johnson, Vice President, Memo for the President, 'Evaluation of Space Program,' 28 April 1961" (PDF). Apollo: A Retrospective Analysis (PDF). Monographs in Aerospace History Number 3. Washington, D.C.: NASA. OCLC 31825096. Retrieved August 1, 2013. Key Apollo Source Documents.
^ Logevall, Fredrik (2020). JFK Coming of Age in the American Century, 1917-1956. Random House. p. 57. ISBN 978-0-8129-9713-2.
"President John F. Kennedy on His Historic Trip to Ireland". Shapell Manuscript Collection. Shapell Manuscript Foundation.
"Remarks of Senator John F. Kennedy at Saint Anselm's College, Manchester, New Hampshire, March 5, 1960". JFKlibrary.org. John F. Kennedy Presidential Library & Museum. March 5, 1960. Archived from the original on August 2, 2016. Retrieved March 28, 2010.
^ a b Johnson, Lyndon B. (April 28, 1961). "Memorandum for the President". Office of the Vice President (Memorandum). Boston: John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Retrieved August 1, 2013.
"Ships in the Night: The CIA, the White House and the Bay of Pigs"
Shannon, Vaughn P. (2003). Balancing Act: US Foreign Policy and the Arab-Israeli Conflict. Aldershot: Ashgate Publishing. p. 55. ISBN 978-0-7546-3591-8.
Hayes, Matthew A. (2019). "Robert Kennedy and the Cuban Missile Crisis: A Reassertion of Robert Kennedy's Role as the President's 'Indispensable Partner' in the Successful Resolution of the Crisis" (PDF). History. 104 (361): 473–503. doi:10.1111/1468-229X.12815. ISSN 1468-229X. S2CID 164907501.
^ Associated Press 1963, pp. 36–37, 56–57, 68 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFAssociated_Press1963 (help)
Both Kennedy and Robert Kennedy were concerned about King's ties to suspected communists Jack O'Dell and Stanley Levison. After Kennedy and his civil rights expert Harris Wofford pressed King to ask both men to resign from the SCLC, King agreed to ask only O'Dell to resign from the organization and allowed Levison, whom he regarded as a trusted advisor, to remain.[315]
^ Kennedy, John F. (June 18, 2002). "Address to the Greater Houston Ministerial Association". American Rhetoric. Archived from the original on August 2, 2016. Retrieved September 17, 2007.
^ "'America's Stake In Vietnam' Speech, 1 June 1956". JFK Library. Retrieved November 22, 2019.
^ "1962 US Joint Chiefs Of Staff Operation Northwoods Unclassified Document Bolsheviks NWO". Internet Archive. 1962.
^ Rouse, Robert (March 15, 2006). "Happy Anniversary to the first scheduled presidential press conference—93 years young!". American Chronicle. Archived from the original on September 13, 2008.
^ a b c d e Brauer 2002, p. 490. sfn error: no target: CITEREFBrauer_2002 (help)
Reeves, Richard (1993). President Kennedy: Profile of Power. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-671-64879-4.
Kole, William J. (May 5, 2021). "JFK love letters to Swedish mistress to be sold at auction". The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Retrieved May 8, 2021.
^ "50 years after win, Kennedy's legacy endures". USA Today. September 26, 2010. Retrieved April 4, 2013.
^ "The U.S. Senator John F. Kennedy Story". jfklibrary.org. Archived from the original on August 2, 2016. Retrieved August 25, 2015.
^ "JFK's epic Solomons swim" BBC News July 30, 2003.
"Brief Overview of Vietnam War". Swarthmore College Peace Collection. Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved August 2, 2016.
Fay, Paul B., Jr. The Pleasure of His Company (1966, OCLC 60678238)
The New York Times (2003).Semple, Robert B. Jr. (ed.). Four days in November. New York: St. Martin's Press.
Kennedy Administration from Office of the Historian, United States Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C.
Rodger Davies, the director of the State Department's Office of Near Eastern Affairs, concluded in March 1965 that Israel was developing nuclear weapons. He reported that Israel's target date for achieving nuclear capability was 1968–1969.[254] On May 1, 1968, Undersecretary of State Nicholas Katzenbach told President Johnson that Dimona was producing enough plutonium to produce two bombs a year. The State Department argued that if Israel wanted arms, it should accept international supervision of its nuclear program.[249] Dimona was never placed under IAEA safeguards. Attempts to write Israeli adherence to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) into contracts for the supply of U.S. weapons continued throughout 1968.[255]
"Kennedy, John Fitzgerald". kingencyclopedia.stanford.edu. May 31, 2017. Retrieved December 3, 2019.
In February 1962,[332] FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, who was suspicious of civil-rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. and viewed him as an upstart troublemaker,[333] presented the Kennedy administration with allegations that some of King's close confidants and advisers were communists. Concerned by these allegations, the FBI deployed agents to monitor King in the following months.[332] Robert Kennedy and President Kennedy also both warned King to discontinue the suspect associations. After the associations continued, Robert Kennedy issued a written directive authorizing the FBI to wiretap King and other leaders of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, King's civil rights organization, in October 1963.[332]
Douglass, James W. (2008). JFK and the Unspeakable: Why He Died and Why It Matters. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books. ISBN 978-1-57075-755-6.
"John F. Kennedy – Presidential candidate and president". Encyclopedia Britannica.
"Happy Anniversary to the first scheduled presidential press conference—93 years young!"
In September 1962, James Meredith enrolled at the University of Mississippi but was prevented from entering. In response to that, Attorney General Robert Kennedy sent 127 U.S. Marshals and 316 U.S. Border Patrol and 97 Federal correctional officers who were deputized as marshals.[310] The Ole Miss riot of 1962 left two civilians dead and 300 people injured, prompting President Kennedy to send in 3,000 troops to quell the riot.[311] Meredith did finally enroll for a class, and Kennedy regretted not sending in troops earlier. Kennedy began doubting as to whether the "evils of Reconstruction" of the 1860s and 1870s he had been taught or believed in were true.[304] The instigating subculture during the Ole Miss riot, and many other racially ignited events, was the Ku Klux Klan.[312] On November 20, 1962, Kennedy signed Executive Order 11063, which prohibited racial discrimination in federally supported housing or "related facilities".[313] Despite this, in Boston, the Boston Housing Authority (BHA) Board would continue to actively segregate the public housing developments in the city during the John F. Collins administration (1960–1968), with BHA departments engaging in bureaucratic resistance against integration through at least 1966 and the Board retaining control over tenant assignment until 1968.[314]
Shapley, Deborah (1993). Promise and power: the life and times of Robert McNamara. Boston: Little, Brown. pp. 202–223. ISBN 978-0-316-78280-7.
"John F. Kennedy's Pre-Presidential Voting Record & Stands on Issues (p. 1 of 9) | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
The US Special Forces had a special bond with Kennedy. "It was President Kennedy who was responsible for the rebuilding of the Special Forces and giving us back our Green Beret," said Forrest Lindley, a writer for the US military newspaper Stars and Stripes who served with Special Forces in Vietnam.[b] This bond was shown at Kennedy's funeral. At the commemoration of the 25th anniversary of Kennedy's death, General Michael D. Healy, the last commander of Special Forces in Vietnam, spoke at Arlington National Cemetery. Later, a wreath in the form of the Green Beret would be placed on the grave, continuing a tradition that began the day of his funeral when a sergeant in charge of a detail of Special Forces men guarding the grave placed his beret on the coffin.[422] Kennedy was the first of six presidents to have served in the U.S. Navy,[423] and one of the enduring legacies of his administration was the creation in 1961 of another special forces command, the Navy SEALs,[424] which Kennedy enthusiastically supported.[425]
^ Kennedy, John F. (August 11, 1961). "320—Letter to the President of the Seneca Nation of Indians Concerning the Kinzua Dam on the Allegheny River". The American Presidency Project. Retrieved February 25, 2012.
At the time of Kennedy's death, no final policy decision was made to Vietnam.[224] In 2008, Kennedy administration White House Counsel and speechwriter Ted Sorensen wrote, "I would like to believe that Kennedy would have found a way to withdraw all American instructors and advisors [from Vietnam]. But ... I do not believe he knew in his last weeks what he was going to do."[225] Sorensen added that, in his opinion, Vietnam "was the only foreign policy problem handed off by JFK to his successor in no better, and possibly worse, shape than it was when he inherited it."[225] U.S. involvement in the region escalated until his successor Lyndon Johnson directly deployed regular U.S. military forces for fighting the Vietnam War.[226][227] After Kennedy's assassination, President Johnson signed NSAM 273 on November 26, 1963. It reversed Kennedy's decision to withdraw 1,000 troops, and reaffirmed the policy of assistance to the South Vietnamese.[228][229]
^ "Generations Divide Over Military Action in Iraq". Pew Research Center. October 2002. Archived from the original on February 2, 2008. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
"JFK (Part 1)". American Experience. Season 25. Episode 7. November 11, 2013. PBS. WGBH. Retrieved September 24, 2019.
^ a b "John F. Kennedy: Early Years". Retrieved April 17, 2017.
^ The Kennedys Archived February 27, 2010, at the Wayback Machine. American Experience. Boston, Massachusetts: WGBH. 2009.
^ "Pell, Claiborne: Oral History Interview – JFK #1, 2/6/1967 | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
Kennedy underwent several spinal operations over the next two years. Often absent from the Senate, he was at times critically ill and received Catholic last rites. During his convalescence in 1956, he published Profiles in Courage, a book about U.S. senators who risked their careers for their personal beliefs, for which he won the Pulitzer Prize for Biography in 1957.[93] Rumors that this work was co-written by his close adviser and speechwriter, Ted Sorensen, were confirmed in Sorensen's 2008 autobiography.[94]
^ "JFK (Part 1)". American Experience. Season 25. Episode 7. November 11, 2013. PBS. WGBH. Retrieved September 24, 2019.
During his administration, Kennedy oversaw the last federal execution prior to Furman v. Georgia, a 1972 case that led to a moratorium on federal executions.[296] Victor Feguer was sentenced to death by an Iowa federal court and was executed on March 15, 1963.[297] Kennedy commuted a death sentence imposed by a military court on seaman Jimmie Henderson on February 12, 1962, changing the penalty to life in prison.[298]
U.S. Scientists: George Beadle / Charles Draper / John Enders / Donald A. Glaser / Joshua Lederberg / Willard Libby / Linus Pauling / Edward Purcell / Isidor Rabi / Emilio Segrè / William Shockley / Edward Teller / Charles Townes / James Van Allen / Robert Woodward
HistorySecond Party SystemThird Party SystemFourth Party SystemFifth Party SystemSixth Party System
My Senator and Me: A Dog's-Eye View of Washington, D.C.
Kennedy reversed the Defense Department rulings that prohibited the Special Forces wearing of the Green Beret. Reeves 1993, p. 116.
^ Riechmann, Deb (July 29, 2008). "Bush: Former Army cook's crimes warrant execution". ABC News. Associated Press. Archived from the original on July 31, 2008. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
"Citation for the Navy Marine Corps Medal". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Retrieved August 3, 2016.
"The Kennedy–Nixon Presidential Debates, 1960". history.com. Archived from the original on January 9, 2021. Retrieved September 18, 2007.
A Constructed Peace: The Making of the European Settlement, 1945–1963
Kennedy, Jacqueline. Jacqueline Kennedy: Historic Conversations on Life with John F. Kennedy (2011, ISBN 1-4013-2425-8). Hyperion Books.
^ "RTDNA's Kennedy connections". Radio Television Digital News Association, November 26, 2013. Retrieved May 27, 2014.
Lacroix, Patrick (2021). John F. Kennedy and the Politics of Faith. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas. pp. 21–44.
Newman, John M. JFK and Vietnam: Deception, Intrigue, and the Struggle for Power (1992, ISBN 978-1-5304-7793-7)
The Eisenhower administration, through the CIA, had begun formulating plans to assassinate Castro in Cuba and Rafael Trujillo in the Dominican Republic. When Kennedy took office, he privately instructed the CIA that any plan must include plausible deniability by the U.S. His public position was in opposition.[179] In June 1961, the Dominican Republic's leader was assassinated; in the days following, Undersecretary of State Chester Bowles led a cautious reaction by the nation. Robert Kennedy, who saw an opportunity for the U.S., called Bowles "a gutless bastard" to his face.[180]
"Black Man Who Was Crazy Enough to Apply to Ole Miss"
^ Blanton, Dana (June 18, 2004). "Poll: Most Believe 'Cover-Up' of JFK Assassination Facts". Fox News. Archived from the original on April 16, 2010. Retrieved September 25, 2012.
"Generations Divide Over Military Action in Iraq". Pew Research Center. October 2002. Archived from the original on February 2, 2008. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, President John F. Kennedy: "After Two Years: A Conversation with the President" on YouTube, Interview with the President / December 16, 1962, minutes 54:50–55:18.
JFK's elder brother Joe had been the family's political standard-bearer and had been tapped by their father to seek the presidency. Joe's death during the war in 1944 changed that course and the assignment fell to JFK as the second eldest of the Kennedy siblings.[76]
Kennedy, John F. (1958). A Nation of Immigrants. Anti-Defamation League. ISBN 978-0-06-144754-9.
^ "Majority in U.S. Still Believe JFK Killed in a Conspiracy: Mafia, federal government top list of potential conspirators". Gallup, Inc. November 15, 2013. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016.
Dudley, Robert L.; Shiraev, Eric (2008). Counting Every Vote: The Most Contentious Elections in American History. Dulles, VA: Potomac Books. ISBN 978-1-59797-224-6.
^ a b "JFK in Congress". National Archives. March 24, 2017.
Cohen, Avner (May 3, 2019). "How a Standoff with the U.S. Almost Blew up Israel's Nuclear Program". Haaretz.
"The FBI's War on King". American Public Radio. Retrieved November 13, 2015.
^ New York Sun September 20, 2005: "Dr. Feelgood" Retrieved July 11, 2011
^ Garrow, David J. (May 28, 2003). "Substance Over Sex In Kennedy Biography". The New York Times. Retrieved January 20, 2013.
The Apollo 8 Astronauts: William Anders / Frank Borman / Jim Lovell
^ Online NewsHour with Senior Correspondent Ray Suarez and physician Jeffrey Kelman, "Pres. Kennedy's Health Secrets", The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer transcript, November 18, 2002
Idlewild Airport in Queens, New York City, nation's busiest international gateway, renamed John F. Kennedy International Airport on December 24, 1963
Douglas Southall Freeman, John Alexander Carroll and Mary Wells Ashworth (1958)
^ Douthat, Ross (November 26, 2011). "The Enduring Cult of Kennedy". New York Times. Retrieved December 3, 2011.
On March 6, 1961, Kennedy signed Executive Order 10925, which required government contractors to "take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, creed, color, or national origin".[308] It established the President's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity. Displeased with Kennedy's pace addressing the issue of segregation, Martin Luther King Jr. and his associates produced a document in 1962 calling on Kennedy to follow in the footsteps of Abraham Lincoln and use an Executive Order to deliver a blow for civil rights as a kind of Second Emancipation Proclamation. Kennedy did not execute the order.[309]
^ Specious allegations in 1997 by UK journalist Terry O'Hanlon Golden, Andrew (July 27, 1997). "JFK The Bigamist. ... . The Truth At Last; Kennedy was already married when he got wed to Jackie. ... ". Sunday Mirror. Retrieved October 31, 2010. and by author Seymour Hersh Reingold, Joyce (March 26, 2008). "JFK 'Secret Marriage' A Story With Legs". Palm Beach Daily News. Archived from the original on May 10, 2011. Retrieved October 31, 2010. that Kennedy had married previously have been soundly disproven. Reeves states that Ben Bradlee, then at Newsweek, inspected FBI files on it, and confirmed the falsehood. Reeves 1993, p. 348; for further refutation, see O'Brien 2005, p. 706.
"The Civilian Conservation Corps in Southern Arizona: Jack and Joe Kennedy in Arizona"
6.3Administration, Cabinet, and judicial appointments																								6.3.1Judicial appointments																								6.3.1.1Supreme Court																											6.3.1.2Other courts
News of the coup led to renewed confidence initially—both in America and in South Vietnam—that the war might be won.[216] McGeorge Bundy drafted a National Security Action Memo to present to Kennedy upon his return from Dallas. It reiterated the resolve to fight communism in Vietnam, with increasing military and economic aid and expansion of operations into Laos and Cambodia. Before leaving for Dallas, Kennedy told Michael Forrestal that "after the first of the year ... [he wanted] an in depth study of every possible option, including how to get out of there ... to review this whole thing from the bottom to the top". Asked what he thought Kennedy meant, Forrestal said, "It was devil's advocate stuff."[217]
Kennedy, John F. (July 15, 1960). "Address of Senator John F. Kennedy Accepting the Democratic Party Nomination for the Presidency of the United States". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library. Retrieved August 2, 2016.
In addition to his two Supreme Court appointments, Kennedy appointed 21 judges to the United States Courts of Appeals, and 102 judges to the United States district courts.
Extensive Essays on JFK with shorter essays on each member of his cabinet and First Lady – Miller Center of Public Affairs
Troubled by the long-term dangers of radioactive contamination and nuclear weapons proliferation, Kennedy and Khrushchev agreed to negotiate a nuclear test ban treaty, originally conceived in Adlai Stevenson's 1956 presidential campaign.[272] In their Vienna summit meeting in June 1961, Khrushchev and Kennedy both reached an informal understanding against nuclear testing, but the Soviet Union began testing nuclear weapons that September. In response, the United States conducted tests five days later.[273] Shortly afterwards, new U.S. satellites began delivering images that made it clear that the Soviets were substantially behind the U.S. in the arms race.[274] Nevertheless, the greater nuclear strength of the U.S. was of little value as long as the U.S.S.R. perceived itself to be at parity.[275]
^ "JFK in the Senate by John T. Shaw:Books in Review". Vietnam Veterans of America. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
^ "The FBI's War on King". American Public Radio. Retrieved November 13, 2015.
"Pell, Claiborne: Oral History Interview – JFK #1, 2/6/1967 | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and MuseumProfile in Courage Award
^ Sorensen, Ted (1965). Kennedy. Harper & Row. pp. 21. ISBN 978-1-56852-035-3.
^ Gus Russo and Stephen Molton "Did Castro OK the Kennedy Assassination?," American Heritage, Winter 2009.
In September 1931, Kennedy started attending Choate School, a prestigious preparatory boarding school in Wallingford, Connecticut. His older brother Joe Jr. was already at Choate for two years and was a football player and leading student. Jack spent his first years at Choate in his older brother's shadow and compensated with rebellious behavior that attracted a clique. Their most notorious stunt was exploding a toilet seat with a powerful firecracker. In the next chapel assembly, the headmaster, George St. John, brandished the toilet seat and spoke of certain "muckers" who would "spit in our sea", leading Kennedy to name his group "The Muckers Club", which included roommate and lifelong friend Lem Billings.[18]
Daum, Andreas (2008). Kennedy in Berlin. New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-85824-3.
^ "「きのうの敵は今日の友」― ケネディ大統領と日本人艦長の友情秘話". American View (in Japanese). Embassy of the United States of America in Japan. April 5, 2015. Retrieved July 26, 2020.
^ "Record of John F. Kennedy's Naval Service". Naval History & Heritage Command. June 18, 2002. Archived from the original on May 27, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
At the start of the fall general election campaign, the Republican nominee and incumbent vice president Richard Nixon held a six-point lead in the polls.[124] Major issues included how to get the economy moving again, Kennedy's Roman Catholicism, the Cuban Revolution, and whether the space and missile programs of the Soviet Union had surpassed those of the U.S. To address fears that his being Catholic would impact his decision-making, he told the Greater Houston Ministerial Association on September 12, 1960: "I am not the Catholic candidate for president. I am the Democratic Party candidate for president who also happens to be a Catholic. I do not speak for my Church on public matters—and the Church does not speak for me."[125] Kennedy questioned rhetorically whether one-quarter of Americans were relegated to second-class citizenship just because they were Catholic, and once stated that "[n]o one asked me my religion [serving the Navy] in the South Pacific".[126] Despite Kennedy's efforts to quell anti-Catholic concerns and similar statements by high-profile Protestant figures, religious bigotry would dog the Democratic candidate through the end of the campaign. His score among white Protestants would ultimately be lower than Adlai Stevenson's in 1956, though Stevenson lost his election. Some Catholic leaders also expressed reservations about Kennedy, but the vast majority of laypeople rallied to him.[127][128][129]
"Total Scores/Overall Rankings | C-SPAN Survey on Presidents 2021 | C-SPAN.org". www.c-span.org.
Edward M. "Ted" Kennedy (m./div. 1st) Joan Bennett; (m. 2nd) Victoria Reggie
^ Selverstone, Marc. "JFK and the Space Race". White House Tapes–Presidential Recordings Program, Miller Center of Public Affairs, University of Virginia. Archived from the original on March 5, 2012. Retrieved February 26, 2012.
^ "Inflation in Steel". The New York Times. April 12, 1962.
NASA Launch Operations Center in Merritt Island, Florida named the John F. Kennedy Space Center on November 29, 1963.
Leaming, Barbara (2006). Jack Kennedy: The Education of a Statesman. New York: W. W. Norton. ISBN 978-0-393051-61-2.
As a result of this newly created security alliance, Kennedy also encountered tensions with the Israeli government over the production of nuclear materials in Dimona, which he believed could instigate a nuclear arms-race in the Middle East. After the existence of a nuclear plant was initially denied by the Israeli government, David Ben-Gurion stated in a speech to the Israeli Knesset on December 21, 1960, that the purpose of the nuclear plant at Beersheba was for "research in problems of arid zones and desert flora and fauna".[246] When Ben-Gurion met with Kennedy in New York, he claimed that Dimona was being developed to provide nuclear power for desalinization and other peaceful purposes "for the time being".[246]
The Presidential Medal of Freedom : winners and their achievements
Promise and power: the life and times of Robert McNamara
6.1Foreign policy																								6.1.1Cuba and the Bay of Pigs Invasion																											6.1.2Cuban Missile Crisis																											6.1.3Latin America and communism																											6.1.4Peace Corps																											6.1.5Southeast Asia																											6.1.6American University speech																											6.1.7West Berlin speech																											6.1.8Israel																											6.1.9Iraq																											6.1.10Ireland																											6.1.11Nuclear Test Ban Treaty
John F. Kennedy: Commander in Chief: A Profile in Leadership
Gehler, Michael; Kaiser, Professor of European Studies Wolfram; Kaiser, Wolfram (2004). Christian Democracy in Europe Since 19455. ISBN 978-1-135-75385-6.
Talbot, David (June 21, 2007). "Warrior For Peace". Time Magazine. Archived from the original on June 28, 2007. Retrieved March 1, 2012.
In September 1935, Kennedy made his first trip abroad when he traveled to London with his parents and his sister Kathleen. He intended to study under Harold Laski at the London School of Economics (LSE), as his older brother had done. Ill-health forced his return to the United States in October of that year, when he enrolled late and attended Princeton University but had to leave after two months due to a gastrointestinal illness.[20] He was then hospitalized for observation at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston. He convalesced further at the family winter home in Palm Beach, then spent the spring of 1936 working as a ranch hand on the 40,000-acre (16,000-hectare) Jay Six cattle ranch outside Benson, Arizona.[21] It is reported that ranchman Jack Speiden worked both brothers (Joe Jr. and John), "very hard".[22][23]
"President Kennedy in Ireland (Text and video)". RTÉ Archives. Retrieved July 3, 2013.
He tried out for the football, golf, and swimming teams and earned a spot on the varsity swimming team.[26] Kennedy also sailed in the Star class and won the 1936 Nantucket Sound Star Championship.[27] In July 1937, Kennedy sailed to France—taking his convertible—and spent ten weeks driving through Europe with Billings.[28] In June 1938, Kennedy sailed overseas with his father and older brother to work at the American embassy in London, where his father was President Franklin D. Roosevelt's U.S. Ambassador to the Court of St. James's.[29]
^ Carty, Thomas J. (2004). A Catholic in the White House? Religion, Politics, and John F. Kennedy's Presidential Campaign. New York City: Palgrave Macmillan.
^ "Navy SEALs Were Launched in the JFK 'Man on the Moon' Speech". 11 Facts About Navy SEALs. Retrieved May 12, 2011.[dead link]
Taylor Branch, "Kennedys and Hoover: How Their Battles Affected King" Los Angeles Times (December 18, 1988)
The Peacemakers: Yasser Arafat / F. W. de Klerk / Nelson Mandela / Yitzhak Rabin(1993)
^ Failla, Zak (November 18, 2013). "Looking Back on JFK's Time in Bronxville". The Daily Voice. Retrieved August 14, 2017.
Maier, Thomas (2004). The Kennedys: America's Emerald Kings. New York: Basic Books. ISBN 978-0-7867-4016-1.
The Good Samaritans: Bono / Bill Gates / Melinda Gates
Launius, Roger D. (July 1994). "President John F. Kennedy Memo for Vice President, 20 April 1961" (PDF). Apollo: A Retrospective Analysis (PDF). Monographs in Aerospace History Number 3. Washington, D.C.: NASA. OCLC 31825096. Retrieved August 1, 2013. Key Apollo Source Documents.
Nevertheless, the struggle was far from over. Three weeks later on Sunday, September 15, a bomb exploded at the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham; by the end of the day, four African American children had died in the explosion, and two other children were shot to death in the aftermath.[329] Due to this resurgent violence, the civil rights legislation underwent some drastic amendments that critically endangered any prospects for passage of the bill, to the outrage of the president. Kennedy called the congressional leaders to the White House and by the following day the original bill, without the additions, had enough votes to get it out of the House committee.[330] Gaining Republican support, Senator Everett Dirksen promised the legislation would be brought to a vote preventing a Senate filibuster.[331] The legislation was enacted by Kennedy's successor President Lyndon B. Johnson, prompted by Kennedy's memory, after his assassination in November, enforcing voting rights, public accommodations, employment, education, and the administration of justice.[331]
President John F. Kennedy: "After Two Years: A Conversation with the President"
On November 22, 1963, Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas. His vice president, Lyndon B. Johnson, assumed the presidency upon Kennedy's death. Lee Harvey Oswald, a former U.S. Marine, was arrested for the assassination, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later. The FBI and the Warren Commission both concluded Oswald had acted alone, but conspiracy theories about the assassination exist. After Kennedy's death, Congress enacted many of his proposals, including the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Revenue Act of 1964. Kennedy ranks highly in polls of U.S. presidents with historians and the general public. His personal life has also been the focus of considerable sustained interest following public revelations in the 1970s of his chronic health ailments and extramarital affairs. Kennedy is the most recent U.S. president to have died in office.
^ Levine, Future of the US Space Program, p. 71.
Statue of John F. Kennedy by Isabel McIlvain on the grounds of the Massachusetts State House in Boston; dedicated on May 29, 1990.
Kennedy, John F. (1961). "Apollo Expeditions to the Moon: Chapter 2". history.nasa.gov. Retrieved February 26, 2012.
^ "Greatest of the Century". Gallup/CNN/USA Today Poll. December 20–21, 1999. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
^ "Fast Facts about John F. Kennedy | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
"Operation Aphrodite ‹ HistoricWings.com :: A Magazine for Aviators, Pilots and Adventurers". historicwings.com.
Brauer 2002, p. 490. sfn error: no target: CITEREFBrauer_2002 (help)
^ Booknotes interview with historian Michael Beschloss on The Crisis Years: Kennedy and Khrushchev (C-SPAN: June 21, 1991)
^ "John F. Kennedy, Jr". Veteran Tributes. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
^ Kennedy, Edward M. (2009). True Compass: A Memoir. Twelve; First edition. p. 37. ISBN 978-0-446-53925-8.
Riechmann, Deb (July 29, 2008). "Bush: Former Army cook's crimes warrant execution". ABC News. Associated Press. Archived from the original on July 31, 2008. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
By April 19, 1961, the Cuban government had captured or killed the invading exiles, and Kennedy was forced to negotiate for the release of the 1,189 survivors. Twenty months later, Cuba released the captured exiles in exchange for $53 million worth of food and medicine.[157] The incident made Castro feel wary of the U.S. and led him to believe that another invasion would take place.[158]
^ "The Equal Pay Act Turns 40". Archive.eeoc.gov. Archived from the original on June 26, 2012.
The Personal Papers of Theodore H. White (1915–1986): Series 11. Camelot Documents
^ Casey, Shaun A. (2009). The Making of a Catholic President: Kennedy vs. Nixon 1960. New York City: Oxford University Press.
^ "Book by President Kennedy To Be Published on Oct. 7". The New York Times. September 3, 1964.
"U.S. planned massive Cuba invasion force, the kidnapping of Cuban officials"
"John F. Kennedy's Pre-Presidential Voting Record & Stands on Issues (p. 2 of 9) | JFK Library"
^ "John F. Kennedy and PT 109". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
Kennedy appointed the following Justices to the Supreme Court of the United States:
^ Associated Press 1963, p. 93 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFAssociated_Press1963 (help)
^ "The New Generation Offers a Leader". March 21, 2016.
"John F. Kennedy's Pre-Presidential Voting Record & Stands on Issues (p. 2 of 9) | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
^ Clarke, John (May 19, 2015), "Selling J.F.K.'s Boat", The New Yorker, retrieved October 2, 2015
6Presidency (1961–1963)											Toggle Presidency (1961–1963) subsection																					6.1Foreign policy																								6.1.1Cuba and the Bay of Pigs Invasion																											6.1.2Cuban Missile Crisis																											6.1.3Latin America and communism																											6.1.4Peace Corps																											6.1.5Southeast Asia																											6.1.6American University speech																											6.1.7West Berlin speech																											6.1.8Israel																											6.1.9Iraq																											6.1.10Ireland																											6.1.11Nuclear Test Ban Treaty																														6.2Domestic policy																								6.2.1Economy																											6.2.2Federal and military death penalty																											6.2.3Civil rights movement																											6.2.4Civil liberties																											6.2.5Immigration																											6.2.6Native American relations																											6.2.7Space policy																														6.3Administration, Cabinet, and judicial appointments																								6.3.1Judicial appointments																								6.3.1.1Supreme Court																											6.3.1.2Other courts
The full extent of Kennedy's relationship with Monroe (who in 1962 famously sang "Happy Birthday, Mr. President" at Kennedy's birthday celebration) is not known, though it has been reported that they spent a weekend together in March 1962 while he was staying at Bing Crosby's house.[412] Furthermore, people at the White House switchboard noted that Monroe had called Kennedy during 1962.[413] J. Edgar Hoover, the FBI director, received reports about Kennedy's indiscretions.[414] These included an alleged East German spy Ellen Rometsch. According to historian Michael Beschloss, in July 1963, Hoover reportedly informed Bobby Kennedy about the affair. Hoover told the attorney general that he had information that the president, as well as others in Washington, had been involved with a woman "suspected as a Soviet intelligence agent, someone linked to East German intelligence". Bobby Kennedy reportedly took the matter sufficiently seriously to raise it with leading Democratic and Republican figures in Congress.[415][416] Former Secret Service agent Larry Newman recalled "morale problems" that the president's indiscretions engendered within the Secret Service.[417]
^ "John F. Kennedy's Pre-Presidential Voting Record & Stands on Issues (p. 1 of 9) | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
Rocket Men: The Epic Story of the First Men on the Moon
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 23:18 (UTC).
Walton, Hanes Jr.; Smith, Robert C. (2000). American Politics and the African American Quest for Universal Freedom. New York: Addison, Wesley, Longman. ISBN 978-0-321-07038-8.
Kennedy was single in the 1940s while having relationships with Danish journalist Inga Arvad[403] and actress Gene Tierney.[404] During his time as a senator, he had an affair with Gunilla von Post, who later wrote that the future president tried to end his marriage to be with her before having any children with his wife.[405] Kennedy was also reported to have had affairs with Marilyn Monroe,[406] Judith Campbell,[407] Mary Pinchot Meyer,[408] Marlene Dietrich,[409] Mimi Alford,[410] and his wife's press secretary, Pamela Turnure.[411]
Reeves, Thomas. A Question of Character: A Life of John F. Kennedy (1991, ISBN 978-0-02-925965-8); hostile biography
A White House meeting in September was indicative of the different ongoing appraisals; Kennedy received updated assessments after personal inspections on the ground by the Departments of Defense (General Victor Krulak) and State (Joseph Mendenhall). Krulak said that the military fight against the communists was progressing and being won, while Mendenhall stated that the country was civilly being lost to any U.S. influence. Kennedy reacted, asking, "Did you two gentlemen visit the same country?" Kennedy was unaware that both men were so much at odds that they did not speak to each other on the return flight.[209]
"NSAM 273: South Vietnam". Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved February 19, 2012.
Kennedy's funeral service was held on November 25, at St. Matthew's Cathedral.[376] The Requiem Mass was led by Cardinal Richard Cushing.[376] About 1,200 guests, including representatives from over 90 countries, attended.[377][378] After the service, Kennedy was buried at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia.[379]
^ ""America's Stake in Vietnam" Speech by U.S. Senator John F. Kennedy, June 1, 1956". State Historical Society of Iowa. January 25, 2019. Retrieved November 22, 2019.
^ Raymond, Emilie (2006). From my cold, dead hands: Charlton Heston and American politics. University Press of Kentucky. p. 246. ISBN 978-0-8131-2408-7.
""America's Stake in Vietnam" Speech by U.S. Senator John F. Kennedy, June 1, 1956"
Over a hundred thousand people, predominantly African Americans, gathered in Washington for the civil rights March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom on August 28, 1963. Kennedy feared the March would have a negative effect on the prospects for the civil rights bills in Congress, and declined an invitation to speak. He turned over some of the details of the government's involvement to the Dept. of Justice, which channelled hundreds of thousands of dollars to the six sponsors of the March, including the N.A.A.C.P. and Martin Luther King's Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC).[328]
Ebola Fighters: Dr. Jerry Brown / Dr. Kent Brantly /Ella Watson-Stryker / Foday Gollah / Salome Karwah (2014)
Kennedy ignored the opposition of his brother, who wanted him to choose labor leader Walter Reuther,[119] and other liberal supporters when he chose Johnson as his vice presidential nominee. He believed that the Texas Senator could help him win support from the South.[120] The choice infuriated many in labor. AFL-CIO President George Meany called Johnson "the arch foe of labor", while Illinois AFL-CIO President Reuben Soderstrom asserted Kennedy had "made chumps out of leaders of the American labor movement."[121][122] In accepting the presidential nomination, Kennedy gave his well-known "New Frontier" speech, saying, "For the problems are not all solved and the battles are not all won—and we stand today on the edge of a New Frontier. ... But the New Frontier of which I speak is not a set of promises—it is a set of challenges. It sums up not what I intend to offer the American people, but what I intend to ask of them."[123]
^ Meagher, Michael (2011). John F. Kennedy: A Biography. Greenwood. pp. 35.
Kennedy, John F. (April 20, 1961). "Memorandum for Vice President". The White House (Memorandum). Boston: John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Retrieved August 1, 2013.
"Lyndon B. Johnson, Vice President, Memo for the President, 'Evaluation of Space Program,' 28 April 1961"
United States Congress. "John F. Kennedy (id: K000107)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress.
The turbulent end of state-sanctioned racial discrimination was one of the most pressing domestic issues of the 1960s. "Jim Crow" segregation was the established law in the Deep South.[301] The U.S. Supreme Court had ruled in 1954 in Brown v. Board of Education that racial segregation in public schools was unconstitutional. Many schools, especially those in southern states, did not obey the Supreme Court's decision. The Court also prohibited segregation at other public facilities (such as buses, restaurants, theaters, courtrooms, bathrooms, and beaches) but it continued nonetheless.[302]
^ Rogan, Aaron (March 15, 2018). "JFK video: hear Kennedy's 'lost' Dallas speech in his own voice". The Times. Retrieved May 10, 2018.
A small sample of the extensive list at the main article (link above) includes:
National cultural center was named John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in 1964, opened in 1971 in Washington, D.C.
The Peacemakers: Yasser Arafat / F. W. de Klerk / Nelson Mandela / Yitzhak Rabin
^ "John F Kennedy's Birthplace--Presidents: A Discover Our Shared Heritage Travel Itinerary". www.nps.gov.
"Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Global Freedom Struggle". Stanford University. April 26, 2017. Retrieved December 3, 2019.
"President John F. Kennedy on His Historic Trip to Ireland"
When it came to conservation, Kennedy, a Massachusetts Audubon Society supporter, wanted to make sure that the shorelines of Cape Cod remained unsullied by future industrialization. On September 3, 1959, Kennedy cosponsored the Cape Cod National Seashore bill with his Republican colleague Senator Leverett Saltonstall.[112]
In 1960, Kennedy stated, "Israel will endure and flourish. It is the child of hope and the home of the brave. It can neither be broken by adversity nor demoralized by success. It carries the shield of democracy and it honors the sword of freedom."[243]
^ Klein, Christopher. "10 Things You May Not Know About John F. Kennedy". HISTORY.
^ "NSAM 273: South Vietnam". Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved February 19, 2012.
Earlier, Kennedy had signed the executive order creating the Presidential Commission on the Status of Women on December 14, 1961.[325] Former First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt led the commission. The Commission statistics revealed that women were also experiencing discrimination; its final report, documenting legal and cultural barriers, was issued in October 1963.[326] Further, on June 10, 1963, Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act of 1963, which amended the Fair Labor Standards Act and abolished wage disparity based on sex.[327]
John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum on Columbia Point in Boston; opened in 1979
^ "Norton Letter to U.S. Attorney Says Death Penalty Trial That Begins Today Part of Troubling and Futile Pattern". Office of Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton. January 8, 2007. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
Kennedy also suffered from chronic and severe back pain, for which he had surgery. Kennedy's condition may have had diplomatic repercussions, as he appears to have been taking a combination of drugs to treat severe back pain during the 1961 Vienna Summit with Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev. The combination included hormones, animal organ cells, steroids, vitamins, enzymes, and amphetamines, and possible potential side effects included hyperactivity, hypertension, impaired judgment, nervousness, and mood swings.[395] Kennedy at one time was regularly seen by three doctors, one of whom, Max Jacobson, was unknown to the other two, as his mode of treatment was controversial[396] and used for the most severe bouts of back pain.[397]
^ Ippolito, Dennis (2004). Why Budgets Matter: Budget Policy and American Politics. Penn State Press. pp. 173–175. ISBN 978-0-271-02260-4.
The economy turned around and prospered during Kennedy's years as president. The GDP expanded by an average of 5.5% from early-1961 to late-1963,[287] while inflation remained steady at around 1% and unemployment eased.[288] Industrial production rose by 15% and motor vehicle sales increased by 40%.[289] This rate of growth in GDP and industry continued until 1969, and has yet to be repeated for such a sustained period of time.[287]
^ Levine, Anold S. (1982). Managing NASA in the Apollo Era, chapter 27, "The Lunar Landing Decision and Its Aftermath". NASA SP-4102.
Mrs. Kennedy brought new art and furniture to the White House and directed its restoration. They invited a range of artists, writers and intellectuals to rounds of White House dinners, raising the profile of the arts in America. On the White House lawn, the Kennedys established a swimming pool and tree house, while Caroline attended a preschool along with 10 other children inside the home.
^ "U.S. Marshals Mark 50th Anniversary of the Integration of 'Ole Miss'". www.usmarshals.gov. Archived from the original on May 23, 2020. Retrieved April 25, 2020.
^ "The Children of Jacqueline Kennedy". www.firstladies.org. Retrieved April 16, 2016.
Kennedy was hospitalized at the Chelsea Naval Hospital in Chelsea, Massachusetts from May to December 1944.[39] On June 12, he was presented the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for his heroic actions on August 1–2, 1943, and the Purple Heart Medal for his back injury while on PT-109.[66] Beginning in January 1945, Kennedy spent three more months recovering from his back injury at Castle Hot Springs, a resort and temporary military hospital in Arizona.[67][68] After the war, Kennedy felt that the medal he had received for heroism was not a combat award and asked that he be reconsidered for the Silver Star Medal for which he had been recommended initially. Kennedy's father also requested that his son receive the Silver Star, which is awarded for gallantry in action.
Foreign policy of the John F. Kennedy administration § Latin America
"Lt. John F. Kennedy's WWII Medals: Navy Marine Corps Medal and Purple Heart"
Soderstrom, Carl; Soderstrom, Robert; Stevens, Chris; Burt, Andrew (2018). Forty Gavels: The Life of Reuben Soderstrom and the Illinois AFL-CIO. 3. Peoria, IL: CWS Publishing. pp. 175-176. ISBN 978-0-9982575-3-2.
^ Talbot, David (June 21, 2007). "Warrior For Peace". Time Magazine. Archived from the original on June 28, 2007. Retrieved March 1, 2012.
"320—Letter to the President of the Seneca Nation of Indians Concerning the Kinzua Dam on the Allegheny River"
The Whistleblowers: Cynthia Cooper / Coleen Rowley / Sherron Watkins
2U.S. Naval Reserve (1941–1945)											Toggle U.S. Naval Reserve (1941–1945) subsection																					2.1Commanding PT-109																											2.2Commanding PT-59																											2.3Military awards																								2.3.1Navy and Marine Corps Medal citation
In January 1942, Kennedy was assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters, Sixth Naval District, in Charleston, South Carolina.[40] He attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago from July 27 to September 27[39] and then voluntarily entered the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center in Melville, Rhode Island.[40][42] On October 10, he was promoted to lieutenant junior grade.[40] In early November, Kennedy was still mourning the death of his close, childhood friend, Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr., who had been killed in action at Guadalcanal that August and awarded the Navy Cross for his bravery. Accompanied by a female acquaintance from a wealthy Newport family, the couple had stopped in Middletown, Rhode Island at the cemetery where the decorated, naval spy, Commander Hugo W. Koehler, USN, had been buried the previous year. Ambling around the plots near the tiny St. Columba's chapel, Kennedy paused over Koehler's white granite cross grave marker and pondered his own mortality, hoping out loud that when his time came, he would not have to die without religion. "But these things can't be faked," he added. "There's no bluffing."[43] Two decades later, Kennedy and Koehler's stepson, U.S. Senator Claiborne Pell had become good friends and political allies, although they had been acquaintances since the mid-1930s during their "salad days" on the same Newport debutante party "circuit" and when Pell had dated Kathleen ("Kick") Kennedy.[44] Kennedy completed his training on December 2 and was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron FOUR.[39]
Logevall, Fredrik (2020). JFK Coming of Age in the American Century, 1917-1956. Random House. p. 57. ISBN 978-0-8129-9713-2.
Parmet, Herbert. JFK: The Presidency of John F. Kennedy (1983, ISBN 978-0-385-27419-7)
According to Seymour Hersh, the Israelis set up false control rooms to show the Americans. Israeli lobbyist Abe Feinberg stated: "It was part of my job to tip them off that Kennedy was insisting on [an inspection]."[249] Hersh contends that the inspections were conducted in such a way that it "guaranteed that the whole procedure would be little more than a whitewash, as the president and his senior advisors had to understand: the American inspection team would have to schedule its visits well in advance, and with the full acquiescence of Israel."[250] Marc Trachtenberg argued that "[a]lthough [he was] well aware of what the Israelis were doing, Kennedy chose to take this as satisfactory evidence of Israeli compliance with America's non-proliferation policy."[251] The documents reveal the deep concern the Kennedy Administration had over Dimona, and while Kennedy understood the United States and the international community may not be capable of preventing Israel or any nation, he certainly was not satisfied to learn Israel was using Dimona for the production of plutonium.[252] The American who led the inspection team stated that the essential goal of the inspections was to find "ways to not reach the point of taking action against Israel's nuclear weapons program".[253]
"Obama will echo Kennedy's American University nuclear speech from 1963"
At the start of his first term, Kennedy focused on Massachusetts-specific issues by sponsoring bills to help the fishing, textile manufacturing, and watchmaking industries.[95] In 1954, Senator Kennedy voted in favor of the Saint Lawrence Seaway which would connect the Great Lakes to the Atlantic Ocean, despite opposition from Massachusetts politicians who argued that the project would cripple New England's shipping industry, including the Port of Boston.[96] Three years later, Kennedy chaired a special committee to select the five greatest U.S. senators in history so their portraits could decorate the Senate Reception Room.[97] That same year, Kennedy joined the Senate Labor Rackets Committee with his brother Robert (who was chief counsel) to investigate crime infiltration of labor unions.[98] In 1958, Kennedy introduced a bill (S. 3974) which became the first major labor relations bill to pass either house since the Taft–Hartley Act of 1947. The bill dealt largely with the control of union abuses exposed by the McClellan committee but did not incorporate tough Taft–Hartley amendments requested by President Eisenhower. It survived Senate floor attempts to include Taft-Hartley amendments and gained passage but was rejected by the House.[99]
USS John F. Kennedy (CVN-79), U.S. Navy aircraft carrier that began construction in 2011, and was scheduled to be placed in commission in 2020
Historians disagree on whether the Vietnam War would have escalated if Kennedy had not been assassinated and had won re-election in 1964.[218] Fueling the debate were statements made by Secretary of Defense McNamara in the film "The Fog of War" that Kennedy was strongly considering pulling the United States out of Vietnam after the 1964 election.[219] The film also contains a tape recording of Lyndon Johnson stating that Kennedy was planning to withdraw, a position in which Johnson disagreed.[220] Kennedy had signed National Security Action Memorandum (NSAM) 263, dated October 11, which ordered the withdrawal of 1,000 military personnel by year's end, and the bulk of them out by 1965.[221][222] Such an action would have been a policy reversal, but Kennedy was publicly moving in a less hawkish direction since his speech on world peace at American University on June 10, 1963.[223]
"John F Kennedy's Birthplace--Presidents: A Discover Our Shared Heritage Travel Itinerary". www.nps.gov.
When the World Calls: The Inside Story of the Peace Corps and Its First Fifty Years
In late 1961, Kennedy sent Roger Hilsman, then director of the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research, to assess the situation in Vietnam. There, Hilsman met Sir Robert Grainger Ker Thompson, head of the British Advisory Mission to South Vietnam, and the Strategic Hamlet Program was formed. It was approved by Kennedy and South Vietnam President Ngo Dinh Diem. It was implemented in early 1962 and involved some forced relocation, village internment, and segregation of rural South Vietnamese into new communities where the peasantry would be isolated from communist insurgents. It was hoped that these new communities would provide security for the peasants and strengthen the tie between them and the central government. By November 1963, the program waned and officially ended in 1964.[198]
Kulski, W. W (1966). De Gaulle and the World. Syracuse University Press. p. 29. de gaulle and germany european counterweight.
Kennedy, John F. (November 22, 1963). "Remarks Prepared for Delivery at the Trade Mart in Dallas, TX, November 22, 1963 [Undelivered]". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Retrieved May 10, 2018.
During the summer of 1962, Kennedy had a secret taping system set up in the White House, most likely to aid his future memoir. It recorded many conversations with Kennedy and his Cabinet members, including those in relation to the "Cuban Missile Crisis".[143]
Burner, David (1988). John F. Kennedy and a New Generation. Pearson Longman. ISBN 978-0-205-60345-9.
^ "John F. Kennedy's Pre-Presidential Voting Record & Stands on Issues (p. 2 of 9) | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
Kennedy gathered around the wreckage his surviving ten crew members to vote on whether to "fight or surrender". Kennedy stated: "There's nothing in the book about a situation like this. A lot of you men have families and some of you have children. What do you want to do? I have nothing to lose." Shunning surrender, around 2:00 p.m. on August 2, the men swam towards Plum Pudding Island 3.5 miles (5.6 km) southwest of the remains of PT-109.[40][52] Despite re-injuring his back in the collision, Kennedy towed a badly burned crewman through the water to the island with a life jacket strap clenched between his teeth.[53] Kennedy made an additional two-mile swim the night of August 2, 1943, to Ferguson Passage to attempt to hail a passing American PT boat to expedite his crew's rescue and attempted to make the trip on a subsequent night, in a damaged canoe found on Naru Island where he had swum with Ensign George Ross to look for food.[54]
Brauer 2002, p. 487. sfn error: no target: CITEREFBrauer_2002 (help)
Thomas, Evan. Robert Kennedy: His Life. Simon & Schuster. p. 47.
^ Caro, Robert (2012). The Passage of Power: The Years of Lyndon Johnson. New York: Vintage Books. p. 406. ISBN 978-0-375-71325-5.
John F. Kennedy School of Government, part of Harvard University, renamed in 1966
"「きのうの敵は今日の友」― ケネディ大統領と日本人艦長の友情秘話". American View (in Japanese). Embassy of the United States of America in Japan. April 5, 2015. Retrieved July 26, 2020.
"JFK in the Senate by John T. Shaw:Books in Review". Vietnam Veterans of America. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
"John F. Kennedy Miscellaneous Information". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library & Museum. Archived from the original on August 31, 2009. Retrieved February 22, 2012.
^ "The Story of Leonard Jay Thom. (Executive Officer PT 109)". petertare.org. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
Frum, David (2000). How We Got Here: The '70s. New York: Basic Books. ISBN 978-0-465-04196-1.
We have one-million Americans today serving outside the United-States. There's no other country in history that's carried this kind of a burden. Other countries have had forces serving outside their own country, but for conquest. We have two divisions in South-Korea, not to control South-Korea, but to defend it. We have a lot of Americans in South Vietnam. Well, no other country in the world has ever done that since the beginning of the world; Greece, Rome, Napoleon, and all the rest, always had conquest. We have a million men outside, and they try to defend these countries.[192]
Lem Billings was Kennedy's "oldest and best friend" from the time they attended Choate together until Kennedy's death.[421]
John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), often referred to by his initials JFK, was an American politician who served as the 35th president of the United States from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. He was the youngest person to assume the presidency by election and the youngest president at the end of his tenure.[2] Kennedy served at the height of the Cold War, and the majority of his foreign policy concerned relations with the Soviet Union and Cuba. A Democrat, Kennedy represented Massachusetts in both houses of the U.S. Congress prior to his presidency.
The Eisenhower administration had created a plan to overthrow Fidel Castro's regime in Cuba. Led by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), with help from the U.S. military, the plan was for an invasion of Cuba by a counter-revolutionary insurgency composed of U.S.-trained, anti-Castro Cuban exiles[153][154] led by CIA paramilitary officers. The intention was to invade Cuba and instigate an uprising among the Cuban people, hoping to remove Castro from power.[155] Kennedy approved the final invasion plan on April 4, 1961.
Zapruder filmAbraham Zapruder, photographer of the primary film of assassination
The Good Samaritans: Bono / Bill Gates / Melinda Gates(2005)
At the 1956 Democratic National Convention, Kennedy gave the nominating speech for the party's presidential nominee, Adlai Stevenson II.[100] Stevenson let the convention select the vice presidential nominee. Kennedy finished second in the balloting, losing to Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee but receiving national exposure as a result.[101]
^ a b Kennedy, John F. (January 20, 1961). "Inaugural Address". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library. Archived from the original on January 11, 2012. Retrieved February 22, 2012.
"Joseph Kennedy Jr". A+E Networks Corp. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
Dallek, Robert (2003). An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917–1963. Boston: Little, Brown and Co. ISBN 978-0-316-17238-7.
"Report of the Select Committee on Assassinations of the U.S. House of Representatives"
Knott, Stephen F. Coming to Terms with John F. Kennedy (2022) excerpt
"Voter Education Project". kingencyclopedia.stanford.edu. July 5, 2017. Retrieved December 3, 2019.
Kennedy Convocation Collection at the Amherst College Archives & Special Collections, documenting one of his last visits before his assassination
"JFK: A Timeline of His Life 1917–1963". St. Petersburg Times. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
^ "Legislative Summary: District of Columbia". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library. Retrieved June 8, 2015.
PT 109: An American Epic of War, Survival, and the Destiny of John F. Kennedy
Works by John F. Kennedy at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)
"Executions 1790 to 1963". April 13, 2003. Archived from the original on April 13, 2003. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
^ Launius, Roger D. (July 1994). "Lyndon B. Johnson, Vice President, Memo for the President, 'Evaluation of Space Program,' 28 April 1961" (PDF). Apollo: A Retrospective Analysis (PDF). Monographs in Aerospace History Number 3. Washington, D.C.: NASA. OCLC 31825096. Retrieved August 1, 2013. Key Apollo Source Documents.
In 1950, the Department of the Navy offered Kennedy a Bronze Star Medal in recognition of his meritorious service, which he declined.[71] Kennedy's two original medals are currently on display at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum.[72]
^ Wetterau, Bruce (1996). The Presidential Medal of Freedom : winners and their achievements. Washington, D.C.: Congressional Quarterly Inc. p. 58. ISBN 1-56802-128-3. Retrieved September 9, 2019.
^ Pitts, David (2007). John F. Kennedy and Lem Billings: The Untold Story of an Extraordinary Friendship. p. xi.
^ "Leonard Jay "Lenny" Thom (1917–1946)". Michael W. Pocock and MaritimeQuest.com. Archived from the original on December 8, 2015. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
Forty Gavels: The Life of Reuben Soderstrom and the Illinois AFL-CIO.
"Obama joins list of seven presidents with Harvard degrees". Harvard Gazette. Harvard University. November 6, 2008. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved February 24, 2012.
Brinkley, Alan (2012). John F. Kennedy. New York: Times Books. ISBN 978-0-8050-8349-1.
"Consumer and Gross Domestic Price Indices: 1913 to 2002" (PDF). U.S. Census Bureau. 2003. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 11, 2005. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
Failla, Zak (November 18, 2013). "Looking Back on JFK's Time in Bronxville". The Daily Voice. Retrieved August 14, 2017.
"Peoria Open Space Master Plan: Chapter 4 – Historic and Cultural Resources" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on February 1, 2014. Retrieved January 22, 2014.
^ Kennedy, John F. (November 22, 1963). "Remarks Prepared for Delivery at the Trade Mart in Dallas, TX, November 22, 1963 [Undelivered]". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Retrieved May 10, 2018.
Construction of the Kinzua Dam flooded 10,000 acres (4,000 hectares) of Seneca nation land that they had occupied under the Treaty of 1794, and forced 600 Seneca to relocate to Salamanca, New York. Kennedy was asked by the American Civil Liberties Union to intervene and to halt the project, but he declined, citing a critical need for flood control. He expressed concern about the plight of the Seneca and directed government agencies to assist in obtaining more land, damages, and assistance to help mitigate their displacement.[339][340]
Tofel, Richard J. (May 9, 2008). "In His Own Words". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved March 28, 2010.
"Address Before the Irish Parliament in Dublin, June 28, 1963 (Text and audio)". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. June 28, 1963.
Edward Smith, Dr. Jean (March 1967). "Kennedy and Defense The formative years". Air University Review. Archived from the original on December 12, 2008. Retrieved September 18, 2007.
Kennedy came in third (behind Martin Luther King Jr. and Mother Teresa) in Gallup's List of Widely Admired People of the 20th century.[381][382] Kennedy was a life member of the National Rifle Association.[383][384]
"November 22, 1963: Death of the President | JFK Library"
Kennedy met his future wife, Jacqueline Lee "Jackie" Bouvier (1929–1994), when he was a congressman. Charles L. Bartlett, a journalist, introduced the pair at a dinner party.[385] They were married a year after he was elected senator, on September 12, 1953.[386] After suffering a miscarriage in 1955 and a stillbirth in 1956 (their daughter Arabella), their daughter Caroline was born in 1957 and is the only surviving member of JFK's immediate family. John Fitzgerald Kennedy Jr., nicknamed "John-John" by the press as a child, was born in late November 1960, 17 days after his father was elected. John Jr., a graduate of Brown University, died in 1999 when the small plane he was piloting crashed en route to Martha's Vineyard.[387] In 1963, months before JFK's assassination, Jackie gave birth to a son, Patrick. However, he died after 2 days due to complications from birth.
^ a b c "BEA: Quarterly GDP figures by sector, 1953–1964". United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis. Archived from the original on March 6, 2012. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
"Robert Kennedy and the Cuban Missile Crisis: A Reassertion of Robert Kennedy's Role as the President's 'Indispensable Partner' in the Successful Resolution of the Crisis"
^ "John F. Kennedy Study Guide: The Star Senator". SparkNotes.
^ Barkhorn, Eleanor (November 21, 2013). "JFK's Very Revealing Harvard Application Essay". The Atlantic.
In October 1963, Kennedy appointed Defense Secretary McNamara and General Maxwell D. Taylor to a Vietnamese mission in another effort to synchronize the information and formulation of policy. The objective of the McNamara Taylor mission "emphasized the importance of getting to the bottom of the differences in reporting from U.S. representatives in Vietnam".[210] In meetings with McNamara, Taylor, and Lodge, Diem again refused to agree to governing measures, helping to dispel McNamara's previous optimism about Diem.[211] Taylor and McNamara were enlightened by Vietnam's vice president, Nguyen Ngoc Tho (choice of many to succeed Diem), who in detailed terms obliterated Taylor's information that the military was succeeding in the countryside.[212] At Kennedy's insistence, the mission report contained a recommended schedule for troop withdrawals: 1,000 by year's end and complete withdrawal in 1965, something the NSC considered to be a "strategic fantasy".[213]
"The Battle of the Letters, 1963: John F. Kennedy, David Ben-Gurion, Levi Eshkol, and the U.S. Inspections of Dimona | National Security Archive"
Levine, Anold S. (1982). Managing NASA in the Apollo Era, chapter 27, "The Lunar Landing Decision and Its Aftermath". NASA SP-4102.
Born into the prominent Kennedy family in Brookline, Massachusetts, Kennedy graduated from Harvard University in 1940 before joining the U.S. Naval Reserve the following year. During World War II, he commanded a series of PT boats in the Pacific theater. Kennedy's survival following the sinking of PT-109 and his rescue of his fellow sailors made him a war hero and earned the Navy and Marine Corps Medal, but left him with serious injuries. After a brief stint in journalism, Kennedy represented a working-class Boston district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953. He was subsequently elected to the U.S. Senate and served as the junior senator for Massachusetts from 1953 to 1960. While in the Senate, Kennedy published his book, Profiles in Courage, which won a Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy ran in the 1960 presidential election. His campaign gained momentum after the first televised presidential debates in American history, and he was elected president, narrowly defeating Republican opponent Richard Nixon, who was the incumbent vice president. He was the first Catholic elected president.
^ Hayes, Matthew A. (2019). "Robert Kennedy and the Cuban Missile Crisis: A Reassertion of Robert Kennedy's Role as the President's 'Indispensable Partner' in the Successful Resolution of the Crisis" (PDF). History. 104 (361): 473–503. doi:10.1111/1468-229X.12815. ISSN 1468-229X. S2CID 164907501.
Guerrilla war in the Baltic statesOperation PriboiOperation JungleOccupation of the Baltic states
A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House
Many of Kennedy's speeches (especially his inaugural address) are considered iconic; and despite his relatively short term in office, and the lack of major legislative changes coming to fruition during his term, he is considered by many presidential historians to be in the upper echelon of presidents.[432] Some excerpts of Kennedy's inaugural address are engraved on a plaque at his grave at Arlington. In 2018 The Times published an audio recreation of the "watchmen on the walls of world freedom" speech he was scheduled to deliver at the Dallas Trade Mart on November 22, 1963.[433][434]
^ a b Brauer 2002, p. 492. sfn error: no target: CITEREFBrauer_2002 (help)
Kennedy approved Defense Secretary Robert McNamara's controversial decision to award the contract for the F-111 TFX (Tactical Fighter Experimental) fighter-bomber to General Dynamics (the choice of the civilian Defense department) over Boeing (the choice of the military).[141] At the request of Senator Henry Jackson, Senator John McClellan held 46 days of mostly closed-door hearings before the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations investigating the TFX contract from February to November 1963.[142]
Abramson, Jill. "Kennedy, the Elusive President", The New York Times Book Review October 22, 2013, notes that 40,000 books have been published about JFK
"Norton Letter to U.S. Attorney Says Death Penalty Trial That Begins Today Part of Troubling and Futile Pattern"
On the way to the summit, Kennedy stopped in Paris to meet French President Charles de Gaulle, who advised him to ignore Khrushchev's abrasive style. The French president feared the United States' presumed influence in Europe. Nevertheless, de Gaulle was quite impressed with the young president and his family. Kennedy picked up on this in his speech in Paris, saying that he would be remembered as "the man who accompanied Jackie Kennedy to Paris".[145]
Shaw, John T. "JFK in the Senate: Pathway to the Presidency". Macmillan. Retrieved August 3, 2016.[permanent dead link]
Geis, Anna; Müller, Harald; Schörnig, Niklas (2013). The Militant Face of Democracy. ISBN 978-1-107-03740-3.
Kennedy's administration included high tensions with communist states in the Cold War. He increased the number of American military advisors in South Vietnam. He authorized numerous operations to overthrow the Cuban government of Fidel Castro, including the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in April 1961. The following October,U.S. spy planes discovered Soviet missile bases in Cuba; the resulting period of tensions, termed the Cuban Missile Crisis, nearly resulted in the breakout of a global thermonuclear conflict. He also signed the first nuclear weapons treaty in October 1963. Kennedy presided over the establishment of the Peace Corps, Alliance for Progress with Latin America, and the continuation of the Apollo program with the goal of landing a man on the Moon. He also supported the civil rights movement but was only somewhat successful in passing his New Frontier domestic policies.
^ Council, National Research (1982). Report of the Committee on Ballistic Acoustics. doi:10.17226/10264. ISBN 978-0-309-25372-7.
"Operation Aphrodite ‹ HistoricWings.com :: A Magazine for Aviators, Pilots and Adventurers"
President Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas at 12:30 p.m. Central Standard Time (CST) on Friday, November 22, 1963. He was in Texas on a political trip to smooth over frictions in the Democratic Party between liberals Ralph Yarborough and Don Yarborough (no relation) and conservative John Connally.[360] Traveling in a presidential motorcade through downtown Dallas, he was shot once in the back, the bullet exiting via his throat, and once in the head.[361]
^ "Memorial Hall Auditorium Filled to Capacity at Annual Freshman Smoker". The Harvard Crimson. May 5, 1937. Retrieved February 18, 2012.
My Senator and Me: A Dog's-Eye View of Washington, D.C. (2006)
Kennedy's civil rights proposals led to the Civil Rights Act of 1964.[426] President Lyndon B. Johnson, Kennedy's successor, took up the mantle and pushed the landmark Civil Rights Act through a bitterly divided Congress by invoking the slain president's memory.[427][428] President Johnson then signed the Act into law on July 2, 1964. This civil rights law ended what was known as the "Solid South" and certain provisions were modeled after the Civil Rights Act of 1875, signed into law by President Ulysses S. Grant.[429]
to discuss a topic on which too often ignorance abounds and the truth is too rarely perceived—yet it is the most important topic on earth: world peace ... I speak of peace because of the new face of war ... in an age when a singular nuclear weapon contains ten times the explosive force delivered by all the allied forces in the Second World War ... an age when the deadly poisons produced by a nuclear exchange would be carried by wind and air and soil and seed to the far corners of the globe and to generations yet unborn ... I speak of peace, therefore, as the necessary rational end of rational men ... world peace, like community peace, does not require that each man love his neighbor—it requires only that they live together in mutual tolerance ... our problems are man-made—therefore they can be solved by man. And man can be as big as he wants.[232]
"1962 US Joint Chiefs Of Staff Operation Northwoods Unclassified Document Bolsheviks NWO"
Proclamation for Interdiction of the Delivery of Offensive Weapons to Cuba
"JFK video: hear Kennedy's 'lost' Dallas speech in his own voice"
Alford, Mimi; Newman, Judith (2011). Once Upon A Secret: My Affair with President John F. Kennedy and its Aftermath. London: Hutchinson. ISBN 978-0-09-193175-9.
"Presidents Who Served in the U.S. Navy". Frequently Asked Questions. Naval History & Heritage Command. January 11, 2007. Archived from the original on May 5, 2011. Retrieved May 12, 2011.
^ NBC News 1966, pp. 106–107, 110, 114–115, 119–123, 133–134
Goduti, Philip A. Jr. (2012). Robert F. Kennedy and the Shaping of Civil Rights, 1960–1964. Jefferson, NC: McFarland. ISBN 978-0-7864-4943-9.
Schlesinger, Arthur M. Jr. (2002) [1965]. A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House. Boston: Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 978-0-618-21927-8.
First Lady of the United StatesWhite House restorationTelevised White House tourTour of India and PakistanWhite House Historical AssociationWhite House CuratorCommittee for the Preservation of the White House
On March 1, 1945, Kennedy retired from the Navy Reserve on physical disability and was honorably discharged with the full rank of lieutenant.[66] When later asked how he became a war hero, Kennedy joked: "It was easy. They cut my PT boat in half."[70]
^ Gehler, Michael; Kaiser, Professor of European Studies Wolfram; Kaiser, Wolfram (2004). Christian Democracy in Europe Since 19455. ISBN 978-1-135-75385-6.
^ Kulski, W. W (1966). De Gaulle and the World. Syracuse University Press. p. 29. de gaulle and germany european counterweight.
"U.S. Marshals Mark 50th Anniversary of the Integration of 'Ole Miss'". www.usmarshals.gov. Archived from the original on May 23, 2020. Retrieved April 25, 2020.
His proposals became part of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The day ended with the murder of an NAACP leader, Medgar Evers, in front of his home in Mississippi.[321] As Kennedy had predicted, the day after his TV speech, and in reaction to it, House Majority leader Carl Albert called to advise him that his two-year signature effort in Congress to combat poverty in Appalachia (Area Redevelopment Administration) had been defeated, primarily by the votes of Southern Democrats and Republicans.[322] When Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. complimented Kennedy on his remarks, Kennedy bitterly replied, "Yes, and look at what happened to area development the very next day in the House." He then added, "But of course, I had to give that speech, and I'm glad that I did."[323] On June 16, The New York Times published an editorial which argued that while Kennedy had initially "moved too slowly and with little evidence of deep moral commitment" in regards to civil rights he "now demonstrate[d] a genuine sense of urgency about eradicating racial discrimination from our national life".[324]
Blight, James G.; Lang, Janet M. (2005). The Fog of War: Eleven Lessons from the Life of Robert S. McNamara. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield. ISBN 978-0-7425-4221-1.
Salt, Jeremey (2008). The Unmaking of the Middle East: A History of Western Disorder in Arab lands. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-25551-7.
The Torch is Passed. New York: Associated Press. Associated Press. 1963.
Schlesinger, Arthur Jr. Robert Kennedy and His Times (2018, ISBN 978-1-328-56756-7) [1978]
"November 22, 1963: Death of the President | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org. Retrieved July 25, 2021.
Meagher, Michael (2011). John F. Kennedy: A Biography. Greenwood. pp. 35.
^ "Doctors attending to Kennedy reported". November 1963. Retrieved May 15, 2018.
14Further reading											Toggle Further reading subsection																					14.1Primary sources																											14.2Historiography and memory
Matthews, Chris (2011). Jack Kennedy: Elusive Hero. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1-4516-3508-9.
Into late 1961, disagreements existed among Kennedy's doctors concerning his proper balance of medication and exercise. Kennedy preferred the former because he was short on time and desired immediate relief.[275] During that time, the president's physician, George Burkley, did set up some gym equipment in the White House basement, where Kennedy did stretching exercises for his back three times a week.[398] Details of these and other medical problems were not publicly disclosed during Kennedy's lifetime.[399] The President's primary White House physician, George Burkley, realized that treatments by Jacobson and Travell, including the excessive use of steroids and amphetamines, were medically inappropriate, and took action to remove Kennedy from their care.[400]
A month later, both the Soviet Union and East Berlin began blocking any further passage of East Germans into West Berlin and erected barbed wire fences, which were quickly upgraded to the Berlin Wall, around the city. Kennedy's initial reaction was to ignore this, as long as free access from the West to West Berlin continued. This course was altered when West Berliners had lost confidence in the defense of their position by the United States. Kennedy sent Vice President Johnson and Lucius D. Clay, along with a host of military personnel, in convoy through East Germany, including Soviet-armed checkpoints, to demonstrate the continued commitment of the U.S. to West Berlin.[150][151]
Kenney, Charles (2000). John F. Kennedy: The Presidential Portfolio. New York: PublicAffairs. ISBN 978-1-891620-36-2.
Parmet, Herbert. "The Kennedy Myth". In Myth America: A Historical Anthology, Volume II. Gerster, Patrick, and Cords, Nicholas. (editors.) (1997, ISBN 978-1-933385-13-6)
"Total Scores/Overall Rankings | C-SPAN Survey on Presidents 2021 | C-SPAN.org"
"Remarks Prepared for Delivery at the Trade Mart in Dallas, TX, November 22, 1963 [Undelivered]"
Ryan, Ray (June 21, 2013). "The best four days of JFK's life". Irish Examiner. Cork. ISSN 1393-9564. Retrieved February 6, 2022.
"Remarks of Senator John F. Kennedy at Saint Anselm's College, Manchester, New Hampshire, March 5, 1960"
Goldzwig, Steven R. and Dionisopoulos, George N., eds. In a Perilous Hour: The Public Address of John F. Kennedy (1995, ISBN 978-0-313-27770-2)
^ Taylor Branch, "Kennedys and Hoover: How Their Battles Affected King" Los Angeles Times (December 18, 1988)
Douthat, Ross (November 26, 2011). "The Enduring Cult of Kennedy". New York Times. Retrieved December 3, 2011.
"Recipients". The Laetare Medal. University of Notre Dame. Retrieved July 31, 2020.
6.2Domestic policy																								6.2.1Economy																											6.2.2Federal and military death penalty																											6.2.3Civil rights movement																											6.2.4Civil liberties																											6.2.5Immigration																											6.2.6Native American relations																											6.2.7Space policy
15External links											Toggle External links subsection																					15.1Official																											15.2Media coverage																											15.3Other
Kennedy, John F. (September 12, 1962). "President John F. Kennedy: The Space Effort". Rice University. Archived from the original on July 8, 2006.
Kennedy extended the first informal security guarantees to Israel in 1962 and, beginning in 1963, was the first US president to allow the sale to Israel of advanced US weaponry (the MIM-23 Hawk) as well as to provide diplomatic support for Israeli policies, which were opposed by Arab neighbors; those policies included Israel's water project on the Jordan River.[245]
^ Kennedy, John F. (John Fitzgerald) (2005). John F. Kennedy: 1962 : containing the public messages, speeches, and statements of the president, January 20 to December 31, 1962.
^ a b "Marking the 50th Anniversary of JFK's Speech on Campus". American University. Retrieved August 2, 2016.
... I believe that this nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth. No single space project in this period will be more impressive to mankind, or more important for the long-range exploration of space; and none will be so difficult or expensive to accomplish.[354] Full text
^ Ghaemi M.D., M.P.H., Nassir (September 14, 2011). "What Jackie Kennedy Didn't Say—and Didn't Know". Psychology Today. Retrieved August 22, 2016.
Kazin, Michael (December 2017). "An Idol and Once a President: John F. Kennedy at 100". Journal of American History. 104 (3): 707–726. doi:10.1093/jahist/jax315. ISSN 0021-8723.
"Book by President Kennedy To Be Published on Oct. 7". The New York Times. September 3, 1964.
"Statistical Abstract of the United States, 1964" (PDF). U.S. Department of Commerce. July 1964. Retrieved March 28, 2010.
In late-1961, the White House formed the Special Group (Augmented), headed by Robert Kennedy and including Edward Lansdale, Secretary Robert McNamara, and others. The group's objective—to overthrow Castro via espionage, sabotage, and other covert tactics—was never pursued.[162] In November 1961, he authorized Operation Mongoose.[163] In March 1962, Kennedy rejected Operation Northwoods, proposals for false flag attacks against American military and civilian targets,[164] and blaming them on the Cuban government in order to gain approval for a war against Cuba. However, the administration continued to plan for an invasion of Cuba in the summer of 1962.[163]
^ "Remarks of Senator John F. Kennedy at Saint Anselm's College, Manchester, New Hampshire, March 5, 1960". JFKlibrary.org. John F. Kennedy Presidential Library & Museum. March 5, 1960. Archived from the original on August 2, 2016. Retrieved March 28, 2010.
^ "Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Global Freedom Struggle". Stanford University. April 26, 2017. Retrieved December 3, 2019.
^ "Recipients". The Laetare Medal. University of Notre Dame. Retrieved July 31, 2020.
"Lieutenant John F. Kennedy, USN". Naval Historical Center. June 18, 2002. Archived from the original on September 12, 2007. Retrieved September 17, 2007.
Ludden, Jennifer (May 9, 2006). "Q&A: Sen. Kennedy on Immigration, Then & Now". NPR. Retrieved September 20, 2007.
^ "Statistical Abstract of the United States, 1964" (PDF). U.S. Department of Commerce. July 1964. Retrieved March 28, 2010.
Barnes, John (2007). John F. Kennedy on Leadership. New York: AMACOM. ISBN 978-0-8144-7455-6.
PT 109: An American Epic of War, Survival, and the Destiny of John F. Kennedy (2015 book)
Bundy, McGeorge (October 11, 1963). "National Security Action Memorandum # 263". JFK Lancer. Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved February 19, 2012.
""America's Stake in Vietnam" Speech by U.S. Senator John F. Kennedy, June 1, 1956". State Historical Society of Iowa. January 25, 2019. Retrieved November 22, 2019.
In September 1936, Kennedy enrolled at Harvard College, and his application essay stated: "The reasons that I have for wishing to go to Harvard are several. I feel that Harvard can give me a better background and a better liberal education than any other university. I have always wanted to go there, as I have felt that it is not just another college, but is a university with something definite to offer. Then too, I would like to go to the same college as my father. To be a 'Harvard man' is an enviable distinction, and one that I sincerely hope I shall attain."[24] He produced that year's annual "Freshman Smoker", called by a reviewer "an elaborate entertainment, which included in its cast outstanding personalities of the radio, screen and sports world".[25]
While Kennedy was an upperclassman at Harvard, he began to take his studies more seriously and developed an interest in political philosophy. He made the dean's list in his junior year.[31] In 1940 Kennedy completed his thesis, "Appeasement in Munich", about British negotiations during the Munich Agreement. The thesis eventually became a bestseller under the title Why England Slept.[32] In addition to addressing Britain's unwillingness to strengthen its military in the lead-up to World War II, the book also called for an Anglo-American alliance against the rising totalitarian powers. Kennedy became increasingly supportive of U.S. intervention in World War II, and his father's isolationist beliefs resulted in the latter's dismissal as ambassador to the United Kingdom. This created a split between the Kennedy and Roosevelt families.[33]
Thomas, Evan. Robert Kennedy: His Life. Simon & Schuster. p. 33.
^ a b "JFK: A Timeline of His Life 1917–1963". St. Petersburg Times. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
^ Tofel, Richard J. (May 9, 2008). "In His Own Words". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved March 28, 2010.
^ Goldberg, Carey (May 6, 2001). "Federal Executions Have Been Rare but May Increase". The New York Times. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
Whalen, Thomas J. JFK and His Enemies: A Portrait of Power (2014, ISBN 978-1-4422-1374-6)
^ "JFK's personal connection to Army's Green Berets". CBS Interactive Inc. Retrieved August 3, 2016.
Bundy, McGeorge (November 26, 1963). "National Security Action Memorandum Number 273". JFK Lancer. Retrieved February 19, 2012.
Ebola Fighters: Dr. Jerry Brown / Dr. Kent Brantly /Ella Watson-Stryker / Foday Gollah / Salome Karwah
^ "Peace Corps, Fast Facts". Archived from the original on August 2, 2016. Retrieved August 2, 2016.
Kennedy's campaign gained momentum after the first debate, and he pulled slightly ahead of Nixon in most polls. On Election Day, Kennedy defeated Nixon in one of the closest presidential elections of the 20th century. In the national popular vote, by most accounts, Kennedy led Nixon by just two-tenths of one percent (49.7% to 49.5%), while in the Electoral College, he won 303 votes to Nixon's 219 (269 were needed to win).[133] Fourteen electors from Mississippi and Alabama refused to support Kennedy because of his support for the civil rights movement; they voted for Senator Harry F. Byrd of Virginia, as did an elector from Oklahoma.[133] Forty-three years old, Kennedy was the youngest person ever elected to the presidency (though Theodore Roosevelt was a year younger when, as vice-president, he succeeded to the presidency after the assassination of William McKinley in 1901).[134]
^ Soderstrom, Carl; Soderstrom, Robert; Stevens, Chris; Burt, Andrew (2018). Forty Gavels: The Life of Reuben Soderstrom and the Illinois AFL-CIO. 3. Peoria, IL: CWS Publishing. pp. 175-176. ISBN 978-0-9982575-3-2.
^ Kennedy reversed the Defense Department rulings that prohibited the Special Forces wearing of the Green Beret. Reeves 1993, p. 116.
New York Sun September 20, 2005: "Dr. Feelgood" Retrieved July 11, 2011
Haas, Lawrence J. The Kennedys in the World: How Jack, Bobby, and Ted Remade America's Empire (2021)
"President John Fitzgerald Kennedy (1917–1963)". Michael W. Pocock and MaritimeQuest.com. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
Klein, Christopher. "10 Things You May Not Know About John F. Kennedy". HISTORY.
Kennedy, John F. (August 6, 1960). "From Press Office: Senator John F. Kennedy, Immigration and Naturalization Laws, Hyannis Inn Motel, Hyannis, MA". Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project. Retrieved September 20, 2007.
"U.S. Marshals Mark 50th Anniversary of the Integration of 'Ole Miss'"
"The Battle of the Letters, 1963: John F. Kennedy, David Ben-Gurion, Levi Eshkol, and the U.S. Inspections of Dimona | National Security Archive". April 29, 2019.
White, Theodore Harold (1965). The Making of the President, 1964. New York: Atheneum.
Two Days in June: John F. Kennedy and the 48 Hours That Changed History
"'America's Stake In Vietnam' Speech, 1 June 1956". JFK Library. Retrieved November 22, 2019.
To reinforce the U.S. alliance with West Germany, Kennedy travelled to West Germany and West Berlin in June 1963. On June 26, Kennedy toured West Berlin, culminating in a public speech at West Berlin's city hall in front of hundreds of thousands of enthusiastic Berliners.[239]He reiterated the American commitment to Germany and criticized communism, and was met with an ecstatic response from a massive audience.[240] Kennedy used the construction of the Berlin Wall as an example of the failures of communism: "Freedom has many difficulties, and democracy is not perfect. But we have never had to put a wall up to keep our people in, to prevent them from leaving us." The speech is known for its famous phrase "Ich bin ein Berliner" ("I am a Berliner"), which Kennedy himself had begun to try out in preparation for the trip.[241] Kennedy remarked to Ted Sorensen afterwards: "We'll never have another day like this one, as long as we live."[242]
"The "House That Jack Built": JFK And His Late Brother Built Adobe Shack For Arizona Rancher"
8Personal life, family, and reputation											Toggle Personal life, family, and reputation subsection																					8.1Wife and children																											8.2Popular image																											8.3Health																											8.4Family incidents																											8.5Affairs and friendships
Jewell, Elizabeth (2005). U.S. Presidents Factbook. New York: Random House. ISBN 978-0-375-72073-4.
Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human RightsHuman Rights AwardJournalism AwardBook Award
Kennedy and his wife were younger in comparison to the presidents and first ladies who preceded them, and both were popular in the media culture in ways more common to pop singers and movie stars than politicians, influencing fashion trends and becoming the subjects of numerous photo spreads in popular magazines. Although Eisenhower had allowed presidential press conferences to be filmed for television, Kennedy was the first president to ask for them to be broadcast live and made good use of the medium.[388] In 1961 the Radio-Television News Directors Association presented Kennedy with its highest honor, the Paul White Award, in recognition of his open relationship with the media.[389]
^ Jean Edward Smith, "Bay of Pigs: The Unanswered Questions", The Nation, April 13, 1964.
List of nominations to the Supreme Court of the United States
Sorensen, Ted (1965). Kennedy. Harper & Row. pp. 21. ISBN 978-1-56852-035-3.
Nixon attended the first of these debates after a day of campaigning, whilst running a fever and having previously suffered an infected leg injury earlier in the campaign. During the debate Nixon looked at the reporters asking questions and not at the camera, and was perspirating which his makeup accentuated. He wore a tan suit which reduced his presence against the set background and his fast-growing facial hair was visible as "five o'clock shadow". In contrast, Kennedy had spent the preceding days on debate preparation, appeared relaxed and looked into the camera whilst answering questions.[130] It is commonly said that Kennedy appearing to be the more attractive man of the two won him the debate, largely because of a poll in which voters who watched on TV thought that Kennedy had won but radio listeners believed Nixon to have won.[131] However, only one poll split TV and radio voters like this and the methodology of the pollsters was poor, failing to account for pre-debate political or religious biases and only interviewing 178 radio listeners who believed the debate had been won by either candidate.[131] The location of the polling is also unknown, even though Nixon would have been more popular pre-debate anyway in Protestant, rural areas with less access to television. 1960 was a close race and there is no polling available consistent with the idea that Nixon lost or Kennedy gained support as a result of the debate.[131]Vancil and Pendell point out that Nixon did not win the debate by strength of argument either; Democratic figures were satisfied with Kennedy's debate performance and even many Southern Democrats who had been apathetic or hostile towards Kennedy were impressed, but Nixon's performance alarmed Republican figures who thought that his defensiveness and me-tooism (repeatedly emphasising his agreement with Kennedy) realised their worst fears and was a surprisingly poor performance from him.[132] The debates are now considered a milestone in American political history—the point at which the medium of television began to play a dominant role in politics.[93]
In early 1963, Kennedy related to Martin Luther King Jr. his thoughts on the prospects for civil rights legislation: "If we get into a long fight over this in Congress, it will bottleneck everything else, and we will still get no bill."[316] Civil rights clashes were on the rise that year.[317] His brother Robert and Ted Sorensen pressed Kennedy to take more initiative on the legislative front.[318]
"Churches Attended by John F. Kennedy | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
"RTDNA's Kennedy connections". Radio Television Digital News Association, November 26, 2013. Retrieved May 27, 2014.
^ a b c d "John F. Kennedy Miscellaneous Information". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library & Museum. Archived from the original on August 31, 2009. Retrieved February 22, 2012.
In the first week of June there were 160 incidents of violence. Reeves 1993, p. 515.
List of presidents of the United States by previous experience
^ Trachtenberg, Marc (February 8, 1999). A Constructed Peace: The Making of the European Settlement, 1945–1963. Princeton University Press. p. 403, Appendix Eight (Chapter Nine, Note 134). Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved November 20, 2012.
"John F Kennedy's Birthplace--Presidents: A Discover Our Shared Heritage Travel Itinerary"
For extremely heroic conduct as Commanding Officer of Motor Torpedo Boat 109 following the collision and sinking of that vessel in the Pacific War area on August 1–2, 1943. Unmindful of personal danger, Lieutenant (then Lieutenant, Junior Grade) Kennedy unhesitatingly braved the difficulties and hazards of darkness to direct rescue operations, swimming many hours to secure aid and food after he had succeeded in getting his crew ashore. His outstanding courage, endurance and leadership contributed to the saving of several lives and were in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.
^ "JFK is First Foreign Leader to Address Dáil Éireann (Text and video)". RTÉ Archives. June 28, 1963.
Johnson, Lyndon B. (April 28, 1961). "Memorandum for the President". Office of the Vice President (Memorandum). Boston: John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Retrieved August 1, 2013.
"Navy SEALs Were Launched in the JFK 'Man on the Moon' Speech". 11 Facts About Navy SEALs. Retrieved May 12, 2011.[dead link]
^ Kole, William J. (May 5, 2021). "JFK love letters to Swedish mistress to be sold at auction". The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Retrieved May 8, 2021.
^ Ryan, Ray (June 21, 2013). "The best four days of JFK's life". Irish Examiner. Cork. ISSN 1393-9564. Retrieved February 6, 2022.
^ "Peoria Open Space Master Plan: Chapter 4 – Historic and Cultural Resources" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on February 1, 2014. Retrieved January 22, 2014.
"Inflation in Steel". The New York Times. April 12, 1962.
John F. Kennedy collected news and commentary at The New York Times
^ Kennedy, John F. (August 6, 1960). "From Press Office: Senator John F. Kennedy, Immigration and Naturalization Laws, Hyannis Inn Motel, Hyannis, MA". Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project. Retrieved September 20, 2007.
John F. Kennedy Federal Building in the Government Center section of Boston, opened in 1966
^ Kennedy, John F. (September 12, 1962). "President John F. Kennedy: The Space Effort". Rice University. Archived from the original on July 8, 2006.
^ Launius, Roger D. (July 1994). "President John F. Kennedy Memo for Vice President, 20 April 1961" (PDF). Apollo: A Retrospective Analysis (PDF). Monographs in Aerospace History Number 3. Washington, D.C.: NASA. OCLC 31825096. Retrieved August 1, 2013. Key Apollo Source Documents.
"John Fitzgerald Kennedy 29 May 1917 – 22 November 1963". Naval History and Heritage Command. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
On November 21, 1962, in a cabinet meeting with NASA administrator Webb and other officials, Kennedy explained that the Moon shot was important for reasons of international prestige, and that the expense was justified.[356] Johnson assured him that lessons learned from the space program had military value as well. Costs for the Apollo program were expected to reach $40 billion (equivalent to $358.33 billion in 2021).[357]
When Kennedy entered the convention, he had the most delegates, but not enough to ensure that he would win the nomination. Stevenson—the 1952 and 1956 presidential nominee—remained very popular in the party, while Johnson also hoped to win the nomination with the support from party leaders. Kennedy's candidacy also faced opposition from former president Harry S. Truman, who was concerned about Kennedy's lack of experience. Kennedy knew that a second ballot could give the nomination to Johnson or someone else, and his well-organized campaign was able to earn the support of just enough delegates to win the presidential nomination on the first ballot.[118]
American Women: Susan Brownmiller / Kathleen Byerly / Alison Cheek / Jill Conway / Betty Ford / Ella Grasso / Carla Hills / Barbara Jordan / Billie Jean King / Susie Sharp / Carol Sutton / Addie Wyatt
Kennedy's presidential campaign was a family affair, funded by his father and with his younger brother Robert, acting as his campaign manager. John preferred Ivy League policy advisors, but unlike his father, he enjoyed the give and take of Massachusetts politics and built a largely Irish team of campaigners, headed by Larry O'Brien and Kenneth O'Donnell. Kennedy traveled extensively to build his support among Democratic elites and voters. At the time, party officials controlled most of the delegates, but several states also held primaries, and Kennedy sought to win several primaries to boost his chances of winning the nomination. In his first major test, Kennedy won the Wisconsin primary, effectively ending Humphrey's hopes of winning the presidency. Nonetheless, Kennedy and Humphrey faced each other in a competitive West Virginia primary in which Kennedy could not benefit from a Catholic bloc, as he had in Wisconsin. Kennedy won the West Virginia primary, impressing many in the party, but at the start of the 1960 Democratic National Convention, it was unclear as to whether he would win the nomination.[117]
In April 1943, Kennedy was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron TWO,[39] and on April 24 he took command of PT-109,[47] which was based at the time on Tulagi Island in the Solomons.[40] On the night of August 1–2, in support of the New Georgia campaign, PT-109 was on its 31st mission with fourteen other PTs ordered to block or repel four Japanese destroyers and floatplanes carrying food, supplies, and 900 Japanese soldiers to the Vila Plantation garrison on the southern tip of the Solomon's Kolombangara Island. Intelligence had been sent to Kennedy's Commander Thomas G. Warfield expecting the arrival of the large Japanese naval force that would pass on the evening of August 1. Of the 24 torpedoes fired that night by eight of the American PTs, not one hit the Japanese convoy.[48] On that dark and moonless night, Kennedy spotted a Japanese destroyer heading north on its return from the base of Kolombangara around 2:00 a.m., and attempted to turn to attack, when PT-109 was rammed suddenly at an angle and cut in half by the destroyer Amagiri, killing two PT-109 crew members.[49][50][40][a]
"Head to Head: JFK and RFK, Los Angeles, July 1960"
^ Kennedy, Robert F. Jr. (May 15, 2018). American Values: Lessons I Learned from My Family. Harper. p. 142. ISBN 978-0-06-084834-7.
^ a b c "Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)". Stanford University. May 2, 2017. Retrieved December 3, 2019.
"Marking the 50th Anniversary of JFK's Speech on Campus". American University. Retrieved August 2, 2016.
Meisler, Stanley (2011). When the World Calls: The Inside Story of the Peace Corps and Its First Fifty Years. Beacon Press. ISBN 978-0-8070-5049-1.
The Guardians: Jamal Khashoggi / Maria Ressa / Wa Lone / Kyaw Soe Oo / Staff of The Capital(2018)
Vale, Lawrence J. (2000). From the Puritans to the Projects: Public Housing and Public Neighbors. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. pp. 301–320. ISBN 978-0674025752.
^ Bundy, McGeorge (November 26, 1963). "National Security Action Memorandum Number 273". JFK Lancer. Retrieved February 19, 2012.
"Memorial Hall Auditorium Filled to Capacity at Annual Freshman Smoker"
In April 1963, Kennedy assessed the situation in Vietnam, saying, "We don't have a prayer of staying in Vietnam. Those people hate us. They are going to throw our asses out of there at any point. But I can't give up that territory to the communists and get the American people to re-elect me."[202]
Larry Sabato, "John F. Kennedy's Final Days Reveal A Man Who Craved Excitement" Forbes (October 16, 2013)
"The Story of Leonard Jay Thom. (Executive Officer PT 109)". petertare.org. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
Benson, Kenneth Arline (August 14, 1963). "The "House That Jack Built": JFK And His Late Brother Built Adobe Shack For Arizona Rancher". The Daily News. Virgin Islands. Retrieved August 29, 2016.
^ "John F. Kennedy – Presidential candidate and president". Encyclopedia Britannica.
In constructing his presidential administration, Kennedy elected to retain Eisenhower's last science advisor Jerome Wiesner as head of the President's Science Advisory Committee. Wiesner was strongly opposed to manned space exploration,[343] having issued a report highly critical of Project Mercury.[344][345] Kennedy was turned down by seventeen candidates for NASA administrator before the post was accepted by James E. Webb, an experienced Washington insider who served President Truman as budget director and undersecretary of state. Webb proved to be adept at obtaining the support of Congress, the President, and the American people.[346] Kennedy also persuaded Congress to amend the National Aeronautics and Space Act to allow him to delegate his chairmanship of the National Aeronautics and Space Council to the Vice President,[346][347] both because of the knowledge of the space program Johnson gained in the Senate working for the creation of NASA, and to help keep the politically savvy Johnson occupied.[346]
"Address of Senator John F. Kennedy Accepting the Democratic Party Nomination for the Presidency of the United States"
Dallek, Robert (December 2002). "The Medical Ordeals of JFK". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved March 29, 2015.
John F. Kennedy: "Speech by Senator John F. Kennedy, Zionists of America Convention, Statler Hilton Hotel, New York, NY," August 26, 1960
In an interview a week after JFK's death, Jacqueline Kennedy mentioned his affection for the Broadway musicalCamelot and quoted its closing lines: "Don't let it be forgot, that once there was a spot, for one brief, shining moment that was known as Camelot." The term "Camelot" has come to be used as shorthand for the Kennedy administration and the charisma of the Kennedy family.[390][391]
Rouse, Robert (March 15, 2006). "Happy Anniversary to the first scheduled presidential press conference—93 years young!". American Chronicle. Archived from the original on September 13, 2008.
^ Shannon, Vaughn P. (2003). Balancing Act: US Foreign Policy and the Arab-Israeli Conflict. Aldershot: Ashgate Publishing. p. 55. ISBN 978-0-7546-3591-8.
Giglio, James. The Presidency of John F. Kennedy (1991, ISBN 978-0-7006-1436-3)
^ "Lt. John F. Kennedy's WWII Medals: Navy Marine Corps Medal and Purple Heart". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
^ "President Kennedy in Ireland (Text and video)". RTÉ Archives. Retrieved July 3, 2013.
The anti-imperialist and anti-communist Iraqi Ba'ath Party overthrew and executed Qasim in a violent coup on February 8, 1963. While there have been persistent rumors that the CIA orchestrated the coup, declassified documents and the testimony of former CIA officers indicate that there was no direct American involvement, although the CIA was actively seeking a suitable replacement for Qasim within the Iraqi military and had been informed of an earlier Ba'athist coup plot.[262] The Kennedy administration was pleased with the outcome and ultimately approved a $55-million arms deal for Iraq.[263]
Lynch, Grayston L. Decision for Disaster: Betrayal at the Bay of Pigs (2000, ISBN 978-1-57488-148-6)
On August 4, 1943, he and his executive officer, Ensign Lenny Thom, assisted his injured and hungry crew on a demanding swim 3.75 miles (6.04 km) southeast to Olasana Island, which was visible from Plum Pudding Island. They swam against a strong current, and once again Kennedy towed the badly burned motor machinist "Pappy" MacMahon by his life vest. The somewhat larger Olasana Island had ripe coconut trees, but still no fresh water.[55] On the following day, August 5, Kennedy and Ensign George Ross made the one-hour swim to Naru Island, an additional distance of about 0.5 miles (0.8 km) southwest, in search of help and food. Kennedy and Ross found a small canoe, packages of crackers, candy and a fifty-gallon drum of drinkable water left by the Japanese, which Kennedy paddled another half mile back to Olasana in the acquired canoe to provide his hungry crew.Native coast watchers Biuku Gasa and Eroni Kumana first discovered the 109 crew on Olasana Island and paddled their messages to Ben Kevu, a Senior Scout who sent them on to coast watcher Lieutenant Reginald Evans. On the morning of August 7, Evans radioed the PT base on Rendova. Lieutenant "Bud" Liebenow, a friend and former tentmate of Kennedy's, rescued Kennedy and his crew on Olasana Island on August 8, 1943, aboard his boat, PT-157.[56][57][58][59]
Relations between the United States and Iraq became strained following the overthrow of the Iraqi monarchy on July 14, 1958, which resulted in the declaration of a republican government led by Brigadier Abd al-Karim Qasim.[258] On June 25, 1961, Qasim mobilized troops along the border between Iraq and Kuwait, declaring the latter nation "an indivisible part of Iraq" and causing a short-lived "Kuwait Crisis". The United Kingdom—which had just granted Kuwait independence on June 19, and whose economy was dependent on Kuwaiti oil—responded on July 1 by dispatching 5,000 troops to the country to deter an Iraqi invasion. At the same time, Kennedy dispatched a U.S. Navy task force to Bahrain, and the UK, at the urging of the Kennedy administration, brought the dispute to United Nations Security Council, where the proposed resolution was vetoed by the Soviet Union. The situation was resolved in October, when the British troops were withdrawn and replaced by a 4,000-strong Arab League force, which acted as a barrier against the Iraqi threat.[259]
^ Mandel, Lee R. (2009). "Endocrine and Autoimmune Aspects of the Health History of John F. Kennedy". Annals of Internal Medicine. 151 (5): 350–354. doi:10.7326/0003-4819-151-5-200909010-00011. PMID 19721023.
Kantor Exhibit No. 3—Handwritten notes made by Seth Kantor concerning events surrounding the assassination
The Apollo 8 Astronauts: William Anders / Frank Borman / Jim Lovell(1968)
Years after Kennedy's death, it was revealed that in September 1947, while Kennedy was 30 and in his first term in Congress, he was diagnosed by Sir Daniel Davis at The London Clinic with Addison's disease, a rare endocrine disorder. Davis estimated that Kennedy would not live for another year, while Kennedy himself hoped he could live for an additional ten.[393] In 1966, White House physician Dr. Janet Travell revealed that Kennedy also had hypothyroidism. The presence of two endocrine diseases raises the possibility that Kennedy had autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 2 (APS 2).[394]
"John F. Kennedy's Princeton University undergraduate alumni file". Mudd Manuscript Library Blog. November 22, 2013. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved December 21, 2015.
^ Page, Susan (October 4, 2011). "50 years after win, Kennedy's legacy endures". USA Today. Retrieved December 25, 2011.
^ a b Jaikumar, Arjun (July 10, 2011). "On taxes, let's be Kennedy Democrats. Or Eisenhower Republicans. Or Nixon Republicans". Daily Kos. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
^ Cosgrave, Ben (May 24, 2014). "Head to Head: JFK and RFK, Los Angeles, July 1960". Time Magazine. Archived from the original on November 14, 2014. Retrieved March 19, 2018.
"The 'Famous Five'". United States Senate. March 12, 1959. Retrieved May 11, 2019.
"Memorial Hall Auditorium Filled to Capacity at Annual Freshman Smoker". The Harvard Crimson. May 5, 1937. Retrieved February 18, 2012.
^ The Personal Papers of Theodore H. White (1915–1986): Series 11. Camelot Documents, John F. Kennedy Presidential Library & Museum quotation:The 1963 LIFE article represented the first use of the term "Camelot" in print and is attributed with having played a major role in establishing and fixing this image of the Kennedy Administration and period in the popular mind.
USS John F. Kennedy (CV-67), U.S. Navy aircraft carrier ordered in April 1964, launched May 1967, decommissioned August 2007; nicknamed "Big John"
Wang, Joy Y. (August 4, 2015). "Obama to follow in John F. Kennedy's historic footsteps". msnbc.com. msnbc.com. Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved August 6, 2015.
^ "U.S. Seeks to Impede Israel's Nuclear Development (August 1961)".
Santa Cruz, Paul H. Making JFK Matter: Popular Memory and the 35th President (Denton: University of North Texas Press, 2015) xxiv, 363 pp.
Foreign policy of the John F. Kennedy administration § Iraq
Freedman, Lawrence. Kennedy's Wars: Berlin, Cuba, Laos and Vietnam (2000, ISBN 978-0-19-513453-7)
U.S. Scientists: George Beadle / Charles Draper / John Enders / Donald A. Glaser / Joshua Lederberg / Willard Libby / Linus Pauling / Edward Purcell / Isidor Rabi / Emilio Segrè / William Shockley / Edward Teller / Charles Townes / James Van Allen / Robert Woodward(1960)
^ "The 'Famous Five'". United States Senate. March 12, 1959. Retrieved May 11, 2019.
^ Grantham (1988), The Life and Death of the Solid South: A Political History, p. 156
Nelson, Craig (2009). Rocket Men: The Epic Story of the First Men on the Moon. New York: John Murray. ISBN 978-0-670-02103-1.
^ Kennedy, John F. "Civil Rights Address". AmericanRhetoric.com. Retrieved September 20, 2007.
"1962 US Joint Chiefs Of Staff Operation Northwoods Unclassified Document Bolsheviks NWO". Internet Archive. 1962.
^ Cohen, Avner (May 3, 2019). "How a Standoff with the U.S. Almost Blew up Israel's Nuclear Program". Haaretz.
Kennedy's father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy. Additionally, Bobby Kennedy worked for McCarthy's subcommittee, and McCarthy dated Kennedy's sister Patricia. Kennedy told historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., "Hell, half my voters [particularly Catholics] in Massachusetts look on McCarthy as a hero."[113][114] In 1954, the Senate voted to censure McCarthy, and Kennedy drafted a speech supporting the censure. However, it was not delivered because Kennedy was hospitalized at the time. The speech put Kennedy in the apparent position of participating by "pairing" his vote against that of another senator and opposing the censure. Although Kennedy never indicated how he would have voted, the episode damaged his support among members of the liberal community, including Eleanor Roosevelt, in the 1956 and 1960 elections.[115]
^ "Voter Education Project". kingencyclopedia.stanford.edu. July 5, 2017. Retrieved December 3, 2019.
Unknown Soldiers of World War II and the Korean War
"Address Before the Irish Parliament in Dublin, June 28, 1963 (Text and audio)"
Kennedy, John F. (June 18, 2002). "Address to the Greater Houston Ministerial Association". American Rhetoric. Archived from the original on August 2, 2016. Retrieved September 17, 2007.
^ Wang, Joy Y. (August 4, 2015). "Obama to follow in John F. Kennedy's historic footsteps". msnbc.com. msnbc.com. Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved August 6, 2015.
Collision With History: The Search for John F. Kennedy's PT 109
^ "Kennedy, John Fitzgerald". kingencyclopedia.stanford.edu. May 31, 2017. Retrieved December 3, 2019.
"On taxes, let's be Kennedy Democrats. Or Eisenhower Republicans. Or Nixon Republicans"
From my cold, dead hands: Charlton Heston and American politics
Kennedy verbally supported racial integration and civil rights; during his 1960 presidential campaign, he telephoned Coretta Scott King, wife of the Reverend Martin Luther King Jr., who had been jailed while trying to integrate a department store lunch counter. Robert Kennedy called Georgia governor Ernest Vandiver and obtained King's release from prison, which drew additional black support to his brother's candidacy.[302] Upon taking office in 1961, Kennedy postponed promised civil rights legislation he made while campaigning in 1960, recognizing that conservative Southern Democrats controlled congressional legislation.[303] During his first year in office, Kennedy appointed many Black people to office including his May appointment of civil rights attorney Thurgood Marshall to the federal bench.[304]
On June 4, 1961, Kennedy met with Khrushchev in Vienna and left the meetings angry and disappointed that he had allowed the premier to bully him, despite the warnings he had received. Khrushchev, for his part, was impressed with the president's intelligence but thought him weak. Kennedy did succeed in conveying the bottom line to Khrushchev on the most sensitive issue before them, a proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin. He made it clear that any treaty interfering with U.S. access rights in West Berlin would be regarded as an act of war.[146] Shortly after Kennedy returned home, the U.S.S.R. announced its plan to sign a treaty with East Berlin, abrogating any third-party occupation rights in either sector of the city. Depressed and angry, Kennedy assumed that his only option was to prepare the country for nuclear war, which he personally thought had a one-in-five chance of occurring.[147]
Garrow, David J. (May 28, 2003). "Substance Over Sex In Kennedy Biography". The New York Times. Retrieved January 20, 2013.
JFK and the Unspeakable: Why He Died and Why It Matters
Walt, Stephen M. (1987). The Origins of Alliances, Cornell University Press, pp. 95–96
Manchester, William (1967). The Death of a President: November 20–25, 1963. New York: Harper & Row. LCCN 67010496.
^ Shapley, Deborah (1993). Promise and power: the life and times of Robert McNamara. Boston: Little, Brown. pp. 202–223. ISBN 978-0-316-78280-7.
^ "USS PT 109". Michael W. Pocock and MaritimeQuest.com. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
"John F. Kennedy Received "Non-Combat" Recognition for Wartime Action". Defense Media Network, Faircount Media Group. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
^ Russ. "26, 2009#P12844 Life in Legacy". Lifeinlegacy.com. Archived from the original on May 12, 2011. Retrieved March 28, 2010.
"John F. Kennedy and PT 109". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
Believing that "those who make peaceful revolution impossible, will make violent revolution inevitable,"[176][177] Kennedy sought to contain the perceived threat of communism in Latin America by establishing the Alliance for Progress, which sent aid to some countries and sought greater human rights standards in the region.[178] He worked closely with Puerto Rican Governor Luis Muñoz Marín for the development of the Alliance of Progress and began working to further Puerto Rico's autonomy.
"USS PT-109 Final Crew List". Michael W. Pocock and MaritimeQuest.com. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
^ "Kennedy Plane Found to Be Fully Functional". The Washington Post. July 31, 1999. Retrieved January 2, 2010.
^ "November 22, 1963: Death of the President | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org. Retrieved July 25, 2021.
^ "Rachel Carson and JFK, an Environmental Tag Team". Audubon. May 8, 2012.
^ a b c Dallek, Robert (December 2002). "The Medical Ordeals of JFK". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved March 29, 2015.
Sabato, Larry J. The Kennedy Half-Century: The Lasting Legacy of John F. Kennedy (2013, ISBN 978-1-62040-280-1)
^ Gitlin (2009), The Ku Klux Klan: A Guide to an American Subculture, p. 29
"50 years after win, Kennedy's legacy endures". USA Today. September 26, 2010. Retrieved April 4, 2013.
^ Shaw, John T. (October 15, 2013). JFK in the Senate. St. Martin's Press. p. 41. ISBN 978-0-230-34183-8.
^ Thomas, Evan. Robert Kennedy: His Life. Simon & Schuster. p. 47.
^ Benson, Kenneth Arline (August 14, 1963). "The "House That Jack Built": JFK And His Late Brother Built Adobe Shack For Arizona Rancher". The Daily News. Virgin Islands. Retrieved August 29, 2016.
"The Presidency: Smiting the Foe". TIME. April 20, 1962. Archived from the original on December 4, 2008.
"Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)". Stanford University. May 2, 2017. Retrieved December 3, 2019.
"PDF Justice Department of JFK-King Reinvestigation" (PDF). The Harold Weisberg Archive. p. 5. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 9, 2021. Retrieved January 17, 2022.
"John Fitzgerald Kennedy 29 May 1917 – 22 November 1963"
Tucker, Spencer (2011) [1998]. The Encyclopedia of the Vietnam War: A Political, Social, and Military History. Santa Barbara: ABC-CLIO. ISBN 978-1-85109-960-3.
In a September 1963 speech before the United Nations, Kennedy urged cooperation between the Soviets and Americans in space, specifically recommending that Apollo be switched to "a joint expedition to the Moon".[358] Khrushchev again declined, and the Soviets did not commit to a manned Moon mission until 1964.[359] On July 20, 1969, almost six years after Kennedy's death, Apollo 11 landed the first manned spacecraft on the Moon.
The 1963 LIFE article represented the first use of the term "Camelot" in print and is attributed with having played a major role in establishing and fixing this image of the Kennedy Administration and period in the popular mind.
^ Lacroix, Patrick (2021). John F. Kennedy and the Politics of Faith. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas. pp. 21–44.
The Apollo program was conceived early in 1960, during the Eisenhower administration, as a follow-up to Project Mercury, to be used as a shuttle to an Earth-orbital space station, flights around the Moon, or landing on it. While NASA went ahead with planning for Apollo, funding for the program was far from certain, given Eisenhower's ambivalent attitude to manned spaceflight.[341] As senator, Kennedy had been opposed to the space program and wanted to terminate it.[342]
Senate CaucusPolicy CommitteeSteering and Outreach CommitteeUnited States Senate Democratic Conference Secretary
^ Kennedy, John F. (April 20, 1961). "Memorandum for Vice President". The White House (Memorandum). Boston: John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Retrieved August 1, 2013.
^ a b Edward Smith, Dr. Jean (March 1967). "Kennedy and Defense The formative years". Air University Review. Archived from the original on December 12, 2008. Retrieved September 18, 2007.
^ "Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Global Freedom Struggle". Stanford University. May 31, 2017. Retrieved December 3, 2019.
^ "Brief Overview of Vietnam War". Swarthmore College Peace Collection. Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved August 2, 2016.
Online NewsHour with Senior Correspondent Ray Suarez and physician Jeffrey Kelman, "Pres. Kennedy's Health Secrets", The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer transcript, November 18, 2002
Heath, Jim F. Decade of Disillusionment: The Kennedy–Johnson Years (1976, ISBN 978-0-253-31670-7)
^ "John F. Kennedy". whitehousehistory.org. Washington, D.C.: White House Historical Association. Retrieved May 1, 2022.
A matter demanding Kennedy's attention in the Senate was President Eisenhower's bill for the Civil Rights Act of 1957.[104] Kennedy cast a procedural vote against it and this was considered by some to be an appeasement of Southern Democratic opponents of the bill.[104] Kennedy did vote for Title III of the act, which would have given the Attorney General powers to enjoin, but Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson agreed to let the provision die as a compromise measure.[105] Kennedy also voted for Title IV, termed the "Jury Trial Amendment". Many civil rights advocates at the time criticized that vote as one which would weaken the act.[106] A final compromise bill, which Kennedy supported, was passed in September 1957.[107] He proposed on July 2, 1957, that the U.S. support Algeria's effort to gain independence from France.[108] The following year, Kennedy authored A Nation of Immigrants (later published in 1964), which analyzed the importance of immigration in the country's history as well as proposals to re-evaluate immigration law.[109]
Grantham (1988), The Life and Death of the Solid South: A Political History, p. 156
"JFK love letters to Swedish mistress to be sold at auction"
"Majority in U.S. Still Believe JFK Killed in a Conspiracy: Mafia, federal government top list of potential conspirators". Gallup, Inc. November 15, 2013. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016.
John Fitzgerald (Jack) Kennedy was born outside Boston in Brookline, Massachusetts on May 29, 1917, at 83 Beals Street,[3] to Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., a businessman and politician, and Rose Kennedy (née Fitzgerald), a philanthropist and socialite.[3] His paternal grandfather, P. J. Kennedy, served as a Massachusetts state legislator. Kennedy's maternal grandfather and namesake John F. Fitzgerald served as a U.S. Congressman and was elected to two terms as Mayor of Boston. All four of his grandparents were children of Irish immigrants.[1] Kennedy had an older brother, Joseph Jr., and seven younger siblings: Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, Patricia, Robert, Jean, and Edward.
Associated Press 1963, p. 93 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFAssociated_Press1963 (help)
Kennedy's older brother Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. was killed in action in 1944 at age 29 when his plane exploded over the English Channel during a first attack execution of Operation Aphrodite during World War II.[401] His sister Rose Marie "Rosemary" Kennedy was born in 1918 with intellectual disabilities and underwent a prefrontal lobotomy at age 23, leaving her incapacitated until her death in 2005. Another sister Kathleen Agnes "Kick" Kennedy died in a plane crash en route to France in 1948. His wife Jacqueline Kennedy suffered a miscarriage in 1955 and a stillbirth in 1956: a daughter informally named Arabella.[402] A son, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, died two days after birth in August 1963.
During his years at Choate, Kennedy was beset by health problems that culminated with his emergency hospitalization in 1934 at Yale New Haven Hospital, where doctors suspected leukemia.[19] In June 1934, he was admitted to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota; the ultimate diagnosis there was colitis.[19] Kennedy graduated from Choate in June of the following year, finishing 64th in a class of 112 students.[11] He had been the business manager of the school yearbook and was voted the "most likely to succeed".[18]
Brauer, Carl. J (1977). John F. Kennedy and the Second Reconstruction. Columbia University Press. ISBN 978-0-231-08367-6.
Renehan, Edward J. Jr. (2002). The Kennedys at War: 1937–1945. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group. ISBN 978-0-385-50529-1 – via Google Books.
Collier, Peter & Horowitz, David. The Kennedys (1984, ISBN 978-0-671-44793-9)
"Senator, you're no Jack Kennedy" retort by Senator Lloyd Bentsen, 1988 VP debate
^ Ellis, Joseph J. (2000). "Making Vietnam History". Reviews in American History. 28 (4): 625–629. doi:10.1353/rah.2000.0068. S2CID 144881388.
^ "Obama joins list of seven presidents with Harvard degrees". Harvard Gazette. Harvard University. November 6, 2008. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved February 24, 2012.
^ "USS PT-109 Final Crew List". Michael W. Pocock and MaritimeQuest.com. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
On March 22, 1962, Kennedy signed into law HR5143 (PL87-423), which abolished the mandatory death penalty for first degree murder suspects in the District of Columbia, the only remaining jurisdiction in the United States with such a penalty.[299] The death penalty has not been applied in the District of Columbia since 1957 and has now been abolished.[300]
^ a b President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, President John F. Kennedy: "After Two Years: A Conversation with the President" on YouTube, Interview with the President / December 16, 1962, minutes 54:50–55:18.
^ "PDF Justice Department of JFK-King Reinvestigation" (PDF). The Harold Weisberg Archive. p. 5. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 9, 2021. Retrieved January 17, 2022.
In one of his first presidential acts, Kennedy asked Congress to create the Peace Corps. His brother-in-law, Sargent Shriver, was its first director.[181] Through this program, Americans volunteered to help developing nations in fields like education, farming, health care, and construction. The organization grew to 5,000 members by March 1963 and 10,000 the year after.[182] Since 1961, over 200,000 Americans have joined the Peace Corps, representing 139 countries.[183][184]
Kennedy's continuation of Presidents Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower's policies of giving economic and military aid to South Vietnam left the door open for President Johnson's escalation of the conflict.[430] At the time of Kennedy's death, no final policy decision had been made as to Vietnam, leading historians, cabinet members, and writers to continue to disagree on whether the Vietnam conflict would have escalated to the point it did had he survived.[431][224] His agreement to the NSAM 263[221] action of withdrawing 1,000 troops by the end of 1963, and his earlier 1963 speech at American University,[223] suggest that he was ready to end the Vietnam War. The Vietnam War contributed greatly to a decade of national difficulties, amid violent disappointment on the political landscape.
"How a Standoff with the U.S. Almost Blew up Israel's Nuclear Program"
During the 1960 campaign, Kennedy proposed an overhaul of American immigration and naturalization laws to ban discrimination based on national origin. He saw this proposal as an extension of his planned civil rights agenda as president.[337] These reforms later became law through the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, which dramatically shifted the source of immigration from Northern and Western European countries towards immigration from Latin America and Asia. The policy change also shifted the emphasis on the selection of immigrants in favor of family reunification. The late president's brother, Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts helped steer the legislation through the Senate.[338]
Caro, Robert (2012). The Passage of Power: The Years of Lyndon Johnson. New York: Vintage Books. p. 406. ISBN 978-0-375-71325-5.
^ a b c d e f g h "John Fitzgerald Kennedy 29 May 1917 – 22 November 1963". Naval History and Heritage Command. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
Radio coverage of the assassination of President Kennedy as broadcast on WCCO-AM Radio (Minneapolis) and CBS Radio
Salinger, Pierre (1997). John F. Kennedy: Commander in Chief: A Profile in Leadership. New York: Penguin Studio. p. 97. ISBN 978-0-670-86310-5. Retrieved February 22, 2012.
Kennedy, John F. "Civil Rights Address". AmericanRhetoric.com. Retrieved September 20, 2007.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Hahn, Lorna (1960). "John F. Kennedy (introduction)". North Africa: Nationalism to Nationhood. Public Affairs Press. LCCN 60011401.
"Lt. John F. Kennedy's WWII Medals: Navy Marine Corps Medal and Purple Heart". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
^ a b "U.S. planned massive Cuba invasion force, the kidnapping of Cuban officials". USA Today. October 30, 2017. Retrieved April 15, 2019.
Much to the chagrin of his economic advisors, who wanted him to reduce taxes, Kennedy quickly agreed to a balanced budget pledge. This was needed in exchange for votes to expand the membership of the House Rules Committee in order to give the Democrats a majority in setting the legislative agenda.[139] Kennedy focused on immediate and specific issues facing the administration and quickly voiced his impatience with pondering deeper meanings. Deputy National Security Advisor Walt Whitman Rostow once began a diatribe about the growth of communism, and Kennedy abruptly cut him off, asking, "What do you want me to do about that today?"[140]
^ Garrow, David J. (July 8, 2002). "The FBI and Martin Luther King". The Atlantic.
Jean Edward Smith, "Bay of Pigs: The Unanswered Questions", The Nation, April 13, 1964.
John F. Kennedy: A Resource Guide – the Library of Congress
Kennedy's foreign policy was dominated by American confrontations with the Soviet Union, manifested by proxy contests in the early stage of the Cold War. In 1961 he anxiously anticipated a summit with Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev. He started off on the wrong foot by reacting aggressively to a routine Khrushchev speech on Cold War confrontation in early 1961. The speech was intended for domestic audiences in the Soviet Union, but Kennedy interpreted it as a personal challenge. His mistake helped raise tensions going into the Vienna summit of June 1961.[144]
"Norton Letter to U.S. Attorney Says Death Penalty Trial That Begins Today Part of Troubling and Futile Pattern". Office of Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton. January 8, 2007. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
"Doctors attending to Kennedy reported". November 1963. Retrieved May 15, 2018.
^ "Executions 1790 to 1963". April 13, 2003. Archived from the original on April 13, 2003. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
As early as 1949, Kennedy began preparing to run for the Senate in 1952 against Republican three-term incumbent Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. with the campaign slogan "KENNEDY WILL DO MORE FOR MASSACHUSETTS".[87] Joseph Kennedy again financed his son's candidacy, while John Kennedy's younger brother Robert F. Kennedy emerged as an important member of the campaign as manager.[88] The campaign hosted a series of "teas" (sponsored by Kennedy's mother and sisters) at hotels and parlors across Massachusetts to reach out to women voters.[89][90] In the presidential election, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower carried Massachusetts by a margin of 208,000 votes, but Kennedy defeated Lodge by 70,000 votes for the Senate seat.[91] The following year, he married Jacqueline Bouvier.[92]
Gus Russo and Stephen Molton "Did Castro OK the Kennedy Assassination?," American Heritage, Winter 2009.
Kunz, Diane B. The Diplomacy of the Crucial Decade: American Foreign Relations during the 1960s (1994, ISBN 978-0-231-08176-4)
^ "Report of the Select Committee on Assassinations of the U.S. House of Representatives". U.S. House of Representatives. Retrieved November 11, 2013.
"Pell, Claiborne: Oral History Interview – JFK #1, 2/6/1967 | JFK Library"
"Rachel Carson and JFK, an Environmental Tag Team". Audubon. May 8, 2012.
Wetterau, Bruce (1996). The Presidential Medal of Freedom : winners and their achievements. Washington, D.C.: Congressional Quarterly Inc. p. 58. ISBN 1-56802-128-3. Retrieved September 9, 2019.
Kennedy gave a speech at Saint Anselm College on May 5, 1960, regarding America's conduct in the emerging Cold War. His address detailed how he felt American foreign policy should be conducted towards African nations, noting a hint of support for modern African nationalism by saying, "For we, too, founded a new nation on revolt from colonial rule."[152]
^ "1963: Warm welcome for JFK in Ireland". BBC News. June 27, 1963. Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
"1963: Warm welcome for JFK in Ireland". BBC News. June 27, 1963. Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
In his 1963 State of the Union address, he proposed substantial tax reform and a reduction in income tax rates from the current range of 20–90% to a range of 14–65% as well as a reduction in the corporate tax rates from 52 to 47%. Kennedy added that the top rate should be set at 70% if certain deductions were not eliminated for high-income earners.[279] Congress did not act until 1964, a year after his death, when the top individual rate was lowered to 70%, and the top corporate rate was set at 48%.[282]
"John F. Kennedy". whitehousehistory.org. Washington, D.C.: White House Historical Association. Retrieved May 1, 2022.
Kennedy also was the first foreign leader to address the Houses of the Oireachtas, the Irish parliament.[266][268][269][270]Kennedy later told aides that the trip was the best four days of his life.[271]
This quickly changed on April 12, 1961, when Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first person to fly in space, reinforcing American fears about being left behind in a technological competition with the Soviet Union.[349] Kennedy now became eager for the U.S. to take the lead in the Space Race, for reasons of national security and prestige. On April 20, he sent a memo to Johnson, asking him to look into the status of America's space program, and into programs that could offer NASA the opportunity to catch up.[350][351] After consulting with Wernher von Braun, Johnson responded approximately one week later, concluding that "we are neither making maximum effort nor achieving results necessary if this country is to reach a position of leadership".[352][353] His memo concluded that a manned Moon landing was far enough in the future that it was likely the United States would achieve it first.[352] Kennedy's advisor Ted Sorensen advised him to support the Moon landing, and on May 25, Kennedy announced the goal in a speech titled "Special Message to the Congress on Urgent National Needs":
In his first State of the Union Address in January 1961, President Kennedy said, "The denial of constitutional rights to some of our fellow Americans on account of race—at the ballot box and elsewhere—disturbs the national conscience, and subjects us to the charge of world opinion that our democracy is not equal to the high promise of our heritage."[305] Kennedy believed the grassroots movement for civil rights would anger many Southern whites and make it more difficult to pass civil rights laws in Congress, including anti-poverty legislation, and he distanced himself from it.[306]
Carty, Thomas J. (2004). A Catholic in the White House? Religion, Politics, and John F. Kennedy's Presidential Campaign. New York City: Palgrave Macmillan.
In April 1962, the State Department issued new guidelines on Iraq that were intended to increase American influence there. Meanwhile, Kennedy instructed the CIA—under the direction of Archibald Bulloch Roosevelt Jr.—to begin making preparations for a military coup against Qasim.[261]
Logevall, Fredrik. JFK: Coming of Age in the American Century, 1917-1956 (Random House, 2020, ISBN 978-0-8129-9713-2)
Ippolito, Dennis (2004). Why Budgets Matter: Budget Policy and American Politics. Penn State Press. pp. 173–175. ISBN 978-0-271-02260-4.
American Women: Susan Brownmiller / Kathleen Byerly / Alison Cheek / Jill Conway / Betty Ford / Ella Grasso / Carla Hills / Barbara Jordan / Billie Jean King / Susie Sharp / Carol Sutton / Addie Wyatt(1975)
Rogan, Aaron (March 15, 2018). "JFK video: hear Kennedy's 'lost' Dallas speech in his own voice". The Times. Retrieved May 10, 2018.
Casey, Shaun A. (2009). The Making of a Catholic President: Kennedy vs. Nixon 1960. New York City: Oxford University Press.
^ "The Battle of the Letters, 1963: John F. Kennedy, David Ben-Gurion, Levi Eshkol, and the U.S. Inspections of Dimona | National Security Archive". April 29, 2019.
Donovan, Robert J. (2001) [1961]. PT-109: John F. Kennedy in WW II (40th Anniversary ed.). New York: McGraw Hill. ISBN 978-0-07-137643-3.
^ "JFK John F. Kennedy boy scouts". January 2, 1961.
^ Larry Sabato, "John F. Kennedy's Final Days Reveal A Man Who Craved Excitement" Forbes (October 16, 2013)
Having served as a boy scout during his childhood, Kennedy was active in the Boston Council from 1946 to 1955 as district vice chairman, member of the executive board, vice-president, and National Council Representative.[84][85] Almost every weekend that Congress was in session, Kennedy would fly back to Massachusetts to give speeches to veteran, fraternal, and civic groups, while maintaining an index card file on individuals who might be helpful for a future campaign for state-wide office.[86] JFK set a goal of speaking in every city and town in Massachusetts prior to 1952.[81]
"Peace Corps, Fast Facts". Archived from the original on August 2, 2016. Retrieved August 2, 2016.
"The Equal Pay Act Turns 40". Archive.eeoc.gov. Archived from the original on June 26, 2012.
Brauer 2002, p. 492. sfn error: no target: CITEREFBrauer_2002 (help)
After Congress authorized the funding, Webb began reorganizing NASA, increasing its staffing level, and building two new centers: a Launch Operations Center for the large Moon rocket northwest of Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, and a Manned Spacecraft Center on land donated through Rice University in Houston. Kennedy took the latter occasion as an opportunity to deliver another speech at Rice to promote the space effort on September 12, 1962, in which he said:
Raymond, Emilie (2006). From my cold, dead hands: Charlton Heston and American politics. University Press of Kentucky. p. 246. ISBN 978-0-8131-2408-7.
Booknotes interview with historian Michael Beschloss on The Crisis Years: Kennedy and Khrushchev (C-SPAN: June 21, 1991)
"Majority in U.S. Still Believe JFK Killed in a Conspiracy: Mafia, federal government top list of potential conspirators"
NBC News (1966). There Was a President. New York: Random House.
Cosgrave, Ben (May 24, 2014). "Head to Head: JFK and RFK, Los Angeles, July 1960". Time Magazine. Archived from the original on November 14, 2014. Retrieved March 19, 2018.
"Kennedy Plane Found to Be Fully Functional". The Washington Post. July 31, 1999. Retrieved January 2, 2010.
Warren Commission Hearings, vol. 20, p. 366, Kantor Exhibit No. 3—Handwritten notes made by Seth Kantor concerning events surrounding the assassination
"The Story of Leonard Jay Thom. (Executive Officer PT 109)"
"Leonard Jay "Lenny" Thom (1917–1946)". Michael W. Pocock and MaritimeQuest.com. Archived from the original on December 8, 2015. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
On June 10, 1963, Kennedy, at the high point of his rhetorical powers,[230] delivered the commencement address at American University in Washington, D.C. Also known as "A Strategy of Peace", not only did Kennedy outline a plan to curb nuclear arms, but he also "laid out a hopeful, yet realistic route for world peace at a time when the U.S. and Soviet Union faced the potential for an escalating nuclear arms race."[231] Kennedy wished
"All this will not be finished in the first one hundred days. Nor will it be finished in the first one thousand days, nor in the life of this Administration, nor even perhaps in our lifetime on this planet. But let us begin." In closing, he expanded on his desire for greater internationalism: "Finally, whether you are citizens of America or citizens of the world, ask of us here the same high standards of strength and sacrifice which we ask of you."[135]
"Kennedy Letter Opens Campaign For Presidency". Tampa Bay Times. December 18, 1959. p. 1. Archived from the original on March 2, 2020 – via Newspapers.com.
Ghaemi M.D., M.P.H., Nassir (September 14, 2011). "What Jackie Kennedy Didn't Say—and Didn't Know". Psychology Today. Retrieved August 22, 2016.
On June 11, 1963, President Kennedy intervened when Alabama Governor George Wallace blocked the doorway to the University of Alabama to stop two African American students, Vivian Malone and James Hood, from attending. Wallace moved aside only after being confronted by Deputy Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach and the Alabama U.S. National Guard, which had just been federalized by order of the president. That evening Kennedy gave his famous Report to the American People on Civil Rights on national television and radio, launching his initiative for civil rights legislation—to provide equal access to public schools and other facilities, and greater protection of voting rights.[319][320]
^ "John F. Kennedy's Princeton University undergraduate alumni file". Mudd Manuscript Library Blog. November 22, 2013. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved December 21, 2015.
Doyle, William, PT 109: An American Epic of War, Survival, and the Destiny of John F. Kennedy, (2015), New York, Harper Collins, ISBN 978-0-06-234658-2
^ Halberstam, David (1992). The Best and the Brightest. New York: Ballantine Books. pp. 169–172. ISBN 0-449-90870-4.
Unknown Soldiers for World War II and the Korean War (1958)
Osborne, Robert (2006). Leading Ladies: The 50 Most Unforgettable Actresses of the Studio Era. San Francisco: Chronicle Books. ISBN 978-0-8118-5248-7.
The Viet Cong began assuming a predominant presence in late 1961, initially seizing the provincial capital of Phuoc Vinh.[193] After a mission to Vietnam in October, presidential adviser General Maxwell D. Taylor and Deputy National Security Adviser Walt Rostow recommended the deployment of 6,000 to 8,000 U.S. combat troops to Vietnam.[194]Kennedy increased the number of military advisers and special forces in the area, from 11,000 in 1962 to 16,000 by late 1963, but he was reluctant to order a full-scale deployment of troops.[195][196] However, Kennedy, who was wary about the region's successful war of independence against France, was also eager to not give the impression to the Vietnamese people that the United States was acting as the region's new colonizer, even stating in his journal at one point that the United States was "more and more becoming colonists in the minds of the people." A year and three months later on March 8, 1965, his successor, President Lyndon Johnson, committed the first combat troops to Vietnam and greatly escalated U.S. involvement, with forces reaching 184,000 that year and 536,000 in 1968.[197]
His first command was PT-101 from December 7, 1942, until February 23, 1943:[40] It was a patrol torpedo (PT) boat used for training while Kennedy was an instructor at Melville.[45] He then led three Huckins PT boats—PT-98, PT-99, and PT-101, which were being relocated from MTBRON 4 in Melville, Rhode Island, back to Jacksonville, Florida, and the new MTBRON 14 (formed February 17, 1943). During the trip south, he was hospitalized briefly in Jacksonville after diving into the cold water to unfoul a propeller. Thereafter, Kennedy was assigned duty in Panama and later in the Pacific theater, where he eventually commanded two more PT boats.[46]
Kennedy ended a period of tight fiscal policies, loosening monetary policy to keep interest rates down and to encourage growth of the economy.[285] He presided over the first government budget to top the $100 billion mark, in 1962, and his first budget in 1961 resulted in the nation's first non-war, non-recession deficit.[286] The economy, which had been through two recessions in three years and was in one when Kennedy took office, accelerated notably throughout his administration. Despite low inflation and interest rates, the GDP had grown by an average of only 2.2% per annum during the Eisenhower administration (scarcely more than population growth at the time), and it had declined by 1% during Eisenhower's last twelve months in office.[287]
In 2002, Robert Dallek wrote an extensive history of Kennedy's health. Dallek was able to consult a collection of Kennedy-associated papers from the years 1955–1963, including X-rays and prescription records from the files of Dr. Travell. According to Travell's records, during his presidential years Kennedy suffered from high fevers; stomach, colon, and prostate issues; abscesses; high cholesterol; and adrenal problems. Travell kept a "Medicine Administration Record", cataloging Kennedy's medications: "injected and ingested corticosteroids for his adrenal insufficiency; procaine shots and ultrasound treatments and hot packs for his back; Lomotil, Metamucil, paregoric, phenobarbital, testosterone, and trasentine to control his diarrhea, abdominal discomfort, and weight loss; penicillin and other antibiotics for his urinary-tract infections and an abscess; and Tuinal to help him sleep."[19]
^ "President Kennedy Discussion of Johnson Plan (August 1962)". www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org.
Works by or about John F. Kennedy at Internet Archive
^ "Books for Lawyers". American Bar Association Journal: 556. 1975.
"BEA: Quarterly GDP figures by sector, 1953–1964". United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis. Archived from the original on March 6, 2012. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
Wikisource: John F. Kennedy's Address Before the 18th General Assembly of the United Nations
In late October, intelligence wires again reported that a coup against the Diem government was afoot. The source, Vietnamese General Duong Van Minh (also known as "Big Minh"), wanted to know the U.S. position. Kennedy instructed Lodge to offer covert assistance to the coup, excluding assassination.[214] On November 1, 1963, South Vietnamese generals, led by "Big Minh", overthrew the Diem government, arresting and then killing Diem and Nhu. Kennedy was shocked by the deaths.[215]
^ Kennedy, John F. (1961). "Apollo Expeditions to the Moon: Chapter 2". history.nasa.gov. Retrieved February 26, 2012.
In 1940, Kennedy graduated cum laude from Harvard with a Bachelor of Arts in government, concentrating on international affairs. That fall, he enrolled at the Stanford Graduate School of Business and audited classes there.[34] In early 1941, Kennedy left and helped his father write a memoir of his time as an American ambassador. He then traveled throughout South America; his itinerary included Colombia, Ecuador and Peru.[35][36]
Herst, Burton (2007). Bobby and J. Edgar: The Historic Face-Off Between the Kennedys and J. Edgar Hoover That Transformed America. New York: Basic Books. ISBN 978-0-7867-1982-2.
"Debunking Nixon's radio victory in the 1960 election: Re-analyzing the historical record and considering currently unexamined polling data"
Managing NASA in the Apollo Era, chapter 27, "The Lunar Landing Decision and Its Aftermath". NASA SP-4102.
Ballard, Robert D. (2002). Collision With History: The Search for John F. Kennedy's PT 109. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic. ISBN 978-0-7922-6876-5.
Manchester, William. Portrait of a President: John F. Kennedy in Profile (1967, ISBN 978-0-316-54494-8) online, popular biography
"JFK is First Foreign Leader to Address Dáil Éireann (Text and video)". RTÉ Archives. June 28, 1963.
Cultural depictionsfilmsKennedy half dollarU.S. postage stampsU.S. five cent stampLincoln–Kennedy coincidences
^ In the first week of June there were 160 incidents of violence. Reeves 1993, p. 515.
^ "Vietnam War Allied Troop Levels 1960–73". The American War Library. Archived from the original on August 2, 2016. Retrieved August 2, 2016.
Appearances on C-SPAN"Life Portrait of John F. Kennedy", from C-SPAN's American Presidents: Life Portraits, November 5, 1999
After the war, Kennedy contacted the captain of the Amagiri, Kohei Hanami, and formed a friendship with him. Hanami later supported Kennedy's election campaign.[51]
Ultimately, the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union were the initial signatories to a limited treaty, which prohibited atomic testing on the ground, in the atmosphere, or underwater, but not underground. The U.S. Senate ratified this and Kennedy signed it into law in October 1963. France was quick to declare that it was free to continue developing and testing its nuclear defenses.[278]
On December 17, 1959, a letter from Kennedy's staff which was to be sent to "active and influential Democrats" was leaked stating that he would announce his presidential campaign on January 2, 1960.[116] On January 2, 1960, Kennedy announced his candidacy for the Democratic presidential nomination. Though some questioned Kennedy's age and experience, his charisma and eloquence earned him numerous supporters. Many Americans held anti-Catholic attitudes, but Kennedy's vocal support of the separation of church and state helped defuse the situation. His religion also helped him win a devoted following among many Catholic voters. Kennedy faced several potential challengers for the Democratic nomination, including Senate Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson, Adlai Stevenson II, and Senator Hubert Humphrey.[117]
^ Hunt, Sharon E. (May 14, 2013). "The Civilian Conservation Corps in Southern Arizona: Jack and Joe Kennedy in Arizona". The Civilian Conservation Corps in Southern Arizona. Retrieved August 29, 2016.
^ Meisler, Stanley (2011). When the World Calls: The Inside Story of the Peace Corps and Its First Fifty Years. Beacon Press. ISBN 978-0-8070-5049-1.
McNamara, Robert S. (2000). Argument Without End: In Search of Answers to the Vietnam Tragedy. New York: PublicAffairs. ISBN 978-1-891620-87-4.
Craig, Campbell. "Kennedy's international legacy, fifty years on." International affairs 89.6 (2013): 1367–1378. online
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. (m./sep./died) Mary Richardson (m. 3rd) Cheryl Hines
Pitts, David (2007). John F. Kennedy and Lem Billings: The Untold Story of an Extraordinary Friendship. p. xi.
1947–1949 Palestine war1947–1948 civil war in Mandatory Palestine1948 Arab–Israeli War1948 Palestinian exodus
The Bay of Pigs Invasion began on April 17, 1961. Fifteen hundred U.S.-trained Cubans, dubbed Brigade 2506, landed on the island. No U.S. air support was provided. CIA director Allen Dulles later stated that they thought Kennedy would authorize any action that was needed for success once the troops were on the ground.[156]
"10 Things You May Not Know About John F. Kennedy"
Casey, Shaun. The Making of a Catholic President: Kennedy vs. Nixon 1960 (2009, ISBN 978-0-19-537448-3)
"The Children of Jacqueline Kennedy". www.firstladies.org. Retrieved April 16, 2016.
"JFK The Bigamist. ... . The Truth At Last; Kennedy was already married when he got wed to Jackie. ... "
Biographer Richard Reeves said that Kennedy focused primarily on the political repercussions of the plan rather than military considerations. When it proved unsuccessful, he was convinced that the plan was a setup to make him look bad.[159] He took responsibility for the failure, saying, "We got a big kick in the leg and we deserved it. But maybe we'll learn something from it."[160] He appointed Robert Kennedy to help lead a committee to examine the causes of the failure.[161]
Hunt, Sharon E. (May 14, 2013). "The Civilian Conservation Corps in Southern Arizona: Jack and Joe Kennedy in Arizona". The Civilian Conservation Corps in Southern Arizona. Retrieved August 29, 2016.
^ Brauer 2002, p. 487. sfn error: no target: CITEREFBrauer_2002 (help)
Struggle against political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union
In 1958, Kennedy was re-elected to a second term in the Senate, defeating Republican opponent, Boston lawyer Vincent J. Celeste, by a margin of 874,608 votes, the largest margin in the history of Massachusetts politics.[91] It was during his re-election campaign that Kennedy's press secretary at the time, Robert E. Thompson, put together a film entitled The U.S. Senator John F. Kennedy Story, which exhibited a day in the life of the Senator and showcased his family life as well as the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts-related issues. It was the most comprehensive film produced about Kennedy up to that time.[110] In the aftermath of his re-election, Kennedy began preparing to run for president by traveling throughout the U.S. with the aim of building his candidacy for 1960.[111][98]
John F. Kennedy's Final Days Reveal A Man Who Craved Excitement
^ a b c Bruschke, John; Laura, Divine (March 2017). "Debunking Nixon's radio victory in the 1960 election: Re-analyzing the historical record and considering currently unexamined polling data". The Social Science Journal. 54 (1): 67–75. doi:10.1016/j.soscij.2016.09.007. S2CID 151390817.
^ DiEugenio, James. "Nasser, Kennedy, the Middle East, and Israel". www.kennedysandking.com.
^ Thomas, Evan. Robert Kennedy: His Life. Simon & Schuster. p. 33.
President Johnson quickly issued an executive order to create the Warren Commission—chaired by Chief Justice Earl Warren—to investigate the assassination. The commission concluded that Oswald acted alone in killing Kennedy and that Oswald was not part of any conspiracy.[365] The results of this investigation are disputed by many.[366] The assassination proved to be a pivotal moment in U.S. history because of its impact on the nation, and the ensuing political repercussions. A 2004 Fox News poll found that 66% of Americans thought there had been a conspiracy to kill President Kennedy, while 74% thought that there had been a cover-up.[367] A Gallup Poll in November 2013 showed 61% believed in a conspiracy, and only 30% thought that Oswald did it alone.[368] In 1979, the U.S. House Select Committee on Assassinations concluded, with one third of the committee dissenting, that it believed "that Kennedy was probably assassinated as a result of a conspiracy. The committee was unable to identify the other gunmen or the extent of the conspiracy." This conclusion was based largely on audio recordings of the shooting.[369] Subsequently, investigative reports from the FBI's Technical Services Division and a specially appointed National Academy of Sciences Committee determined that "reliable acoustic data do not support a conclusion that there was a second gunman."[370] The Justice Department concluded "that no persuasive evidence can be identified to support the theory of a conspiracy" in the Kennedy assassination.[371]
"President John F. Kennedy Memo for Vice President, 20 April 1961"
Associated Press 1963, pp. 36–37, 56–57, 68 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFAssociated_Press1963 (help)
Page, Susan (October 4, 2011). "50 years after win, Kennedy's legacy endures". USA Today. Retrieved December 25, 2011.
Counting Every Vote: The Most Contentious Elections in American History
Sorensen, Theodore (1966) [1965]. Kennedy (paperback). New York: Bantam. OCLC 2746832.
As a U.S. Congressman in 1951, Kennedy became fascinated with Vietnam after visiting the area as part of a big fact-finding mission to Asia and the Middle East, even stressing in a subsequent radio address that he strongly favored "check[ing] the southern drive of communism."[185] As a U.S. senator in 1956, Kennedy publicly advocated for greater U.S. involvement in Vietnam.[186][187] When briefing Kennedy, Eisenhower emphasized that the communist threat in Southeast Asia required priority; Eisenhower considered Laos to be "the cork in the bottle" regarding the regional threat. In March 1961, Kennedy voiced a change in policy from supporting a "free" Laos to a "neutral" Laos, indicating privately that Vietnam, and not Laos, should be deemed America's tripwire for communism's spread in the area.[188] In May, he dispatched Lyndon Johnson to meet with South Vietnamese President Ngo Dinh Diem. Johnson assured Diem more aid to mold a fighting force that could resist the communists.[189] Kennedy announced a change of policy from support to partnership with Diem to defeat of communism in South Vietnam.[190]
Doyle, William (2015). PT-109: An American Epic of War, Survival, and the Destiny of John F. Kennedy. New York: Harper-Collins. ISBN 978-0-06-234658-2.
Dunnigan, James; Nofi, Albert (1999). Dirty Little Secrets of the Vietnam War. New York: St. Martin's. ISBN 978-0-312-19857-2.
Gibson, Bryan R. (2015). Sold Out? US Foreign Policy, Iraq, the Kurds, and the Cold War. New York: Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-1-137-48711-7.
Kennedy called his domestic program the "New Frontier". It ambitiously promised federal funding for education, medical care for the elderly, economic aid to rural regions, and government intervention to halt the recession. He also promised an end to racial discrimination,[279] although his agenda, which included the endorsement of the Voter Education Project (VEP) in 1962, produced little progress in areas such as Mississippi, where the "VEP concluded that discrimination was so entrenched".[280][281]
In 1963, Germany was enduring a time of particular vulnerability due to Soviet aggression to the east as well as the impending retirement of West German Chancellor Adenauer.[234] At the same time, French President Charles de Gaulle was trying to build a Franco-West German counterweight to the American and Soviet spheres of influence.[235][236][237] To Kennedy's eyes, this Franco-German cooperation seemed directed against NATO's influence in Europe.[238]
^ "Address Before the Irish Parliament in Dublin, June 28, 1963 (Text and audio)". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. June 28, 1963.
Parmet, Herbert. Jack: The Struggles of John F. Kennedy (1980, ISBN 978-0-8037-4452-3)
^ John F. Kennedy: "Speech by Senator John F. Kennedy, Zionists of America Convention, Statler Hilton Hotel, New York, NY," August 26, 1960
Brauer 2002, p. 497. sfn error: no target: CITEREFBrauer_2002 (help)
1982: Silver Anniversary Awards (NCAA) - All Honored Jim Brown, Willie Davis,Jack Kemp, Ron Kramer, Jim Swink
^ Renehan, Edward J. Jr. (2002). The Kennedys at War: 1937–1945. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group. ISBN 978-0-385-50529-1 – via Google Books.
In July 1963, Kennedy sent W. Averell Harriman to Moscow to negotiate a treaty with the Soviets.[276] The introductory sessions included Khrushchev, who later delegated Soviet representation to Andrei Gromyko. It quickly became clear that a comprehensive test ban would not be implemented, due largely to the reluctance of the Soviets to allow inspections that would verify compliance.[277]
^ Vancil, David L.; Pendell, Sue D. (1987). "The myth of viewer‐listener disagreement in the first Kennedy‐Nixon debate". Central States Speech Journal. 38 (1): 16–27. doi:10.1080/10510978709368226.
^ Mufson, Steve (August 4, 2015). "Obama will echo Kennedy's American University nuclear speech from 1963". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 6, 2015.
Kennedy served in the House for six years, joining the influential Education and Labor Committee and the Veterans' Affairs Committee. He concentrated his attention on international affairs, supporting the Truman Doctrine as the appropriate response to the emerging Cold War. He also supported public housing and opposed the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, which restricted the power of labor unions. Though not as vocal an anti-communist as McCarthy, Kennedy supported the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, which required communists to register with the government, and he deplored the "loss of China".[83]
^ "Joseph Kennedy Jr". A+E Networks Corp. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
^ Warren Commission Hearings, vol. 20, p. 366, Kantor Exhibit No. 3—Handwritten notes made by Seth Kantor concerning events surrounding the assassination
Kennedy, John F. (January 20, 1961). "Inaugural Address". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library. Archived from the original on January 11, 2012. Retrieved February 22, 2012.
In 1939, Kennedy toured Europe, the Soviet Union, the Balkans, and the Middle East in preparation for his Harvard senior honors thesis. He then went to Berlin, where the U.S. diplomatic representative gave him a secret message about war breaking out soon to pass on to his father, and to Czechoslovakia before returning to London on September 1, 1939, the day that Germany invaded Poland to mark the beginning of World War II.[30] Two days later, the family was in the House of Commons for speeches endorsing the United Kingdom's declaration of war on Germany. Kennedy was sent as his father's representative to help with arrangements for American survivors of SS Athenia before flying back to the U.S. from Foynes, Ireland, on his first transatlantic flight.
Garrow, David J. (July 8, 2002). "The FBI and Martin Luther King". The Atlantic.
In Kennedy's January 1961 State of the Union address, he had suggested international cooperation in space. Khrushchev declined, as the Soviets did not wish to reveal the status of their rocketry and space capabilities.[348] Early in his presidency, Kennedy was poised to dismantle the manned space program but postponed any decision out of deference to Johnson, who had been a strong supporter of the space program in the Senate.[342]
Kennedy, Edward M. (2009). True Compass: A Memoir. Twelve; First edition. p. 37. ISBN 978-0-446-53925-8.
Kennedy's body was brought back to Washington after his assassination. Early on November 23, six military pallbearers carried the flag-draped coffin into the East Room of the White House, where he lay in repose for 24 hours.[372][373] Then, the coffin was carried on a horse-drawn caisson to the Capitol to lie in state. Throughout the day and night, hundreds of thousands lined up to view the guarded casket,[374][375] with a quarter million passing through the rotunda during the 18 hours of lying in state.[374]
Kennedy also made two announcements: 1.) that the Soviets had expressed a desire to negotiate a nuclear test ban treaty, and 2.) that the U.S. had postponed planned atmospheric tests.[233]
"From Press Office: Senator John F. Kennedy, Immigration and Naturalization Laws, Hyannis Inn Motel, Hyannis, MA"
Hellmann, John. The Kennedy Obsession: The American Myth of JFK (1997, ISBN 978-0-231-10798-3)
Bobby and J. Edgar: The Historic Face-Off Between the Kennedys and J. Edgar Hoover That Transformed America
9Historical evaluations and legacy											Toggle Historical evaluations and legacy subsection																					9.1Presidency																											9.2Memorials and eponyms
Ellis, Joseph J. (2000). "Making Vietnam History". Reviews in American History. 28 (4): 625–629. doi:10.1353/rah.2000.0068. S2CID 144881388.
Motor Torpedo Squadron 2Patrol Torpedo Boat 109Patrol Torpedo Boat 59
In April 1945, Kennedy's father, who was a friend of William Randolph Hearst, arranged a position for his son as a special correspondent for Hearst Newspapers; the assignment kept Kennedy's name in the public eye and "expose[d] him to journalism as a possible career".[74] He worked as a correspondent that May and went to Berlin for a second time,[30] covering the Potsdam Conference and other events.[75]
Goldberg, Carey (May 6, 2001). "Federal Executions Have Been Rare but May Increase". The New York Times. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
JFK's "Address on the First Anniversary of the Alliance for Progress", White House reception for diplomatic cors of the Latin American republics, March 13, 1962. Public Papers of the Presidents – John F. Kennedy (1962), p. 223.
Fursenko, Aleksandr and Timothy Naftali. One Hell of a Gamble: Khrushchev, Castro and Kennedy, 1958–1964 (1997, ISBN 978-0-393-04070-8)
The Personal Papers of Theodore H. White (1915–1986): Series 11. Camelot Documents, John F. Kennedy Presidential Library & Museum quotation:The 1963 LIFE article represented the first use of the term "Camelot" in print and is attributed with having played a major role in establishing and fixing this image of the Kennedy Administration and period in the popular mind.
Shaw, John T. (October 15, 2013). JFK in the Senate. St. Martin's Press. p. 41. ISBN 978-0-230-34183-8.
Harris, Seymour E. The Economics of the Political Parties, with Special Attention to Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy (1962, OCLC 614522002)
Barkhorn, Eleanor (November 21, 2013). "JFK's Very Revealing Harvard Application Essay". The Atlantic.
Halberstam, David (1992). The Best and the Brightest. New York: Ballantine Books. pp. 169–172. ISBN 0-449-90870-4.
"JFK in the Senate by John T. Shaw:Books in Review"
"John F. Kennedy, Jr". Veteran Tributes. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
"U.S. planned massive Cuba invasion force, the kidnapping of Cuban officials". USA Today. October 30, 2017. Retrieved April 15, 2019.
^ Ludden, Jennifer (May 9, 2006). "Q&A: Sen. Kennedy on Immigration, Then & Now". NPR. Retrieved September 20, 2007.
Trachtenberg, Marc (February 8, 1999). A Constructed Peace: The Making of the European Settlement, 1945–1963. Princeton University Press. p. 403, Appendix Eight (Chapter Nine, Note 134). Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved November 20, 2012.
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Massachusetts
The U.S. Navy would stop and inspect all Soviet ships arriving off Cuba, beginning October 24. The Organization of American States gave unanimous support to the removal of the missiles. Kennedy exchanged two sets of letters with Khrushchev, to no avail.[170] United Nations (UN) Secretary General U Thant requested both parties to reverse their decisions and enter a cooling-off period. Khrushchev agreed, but Kennedy did not.[171]
"Legislative Summary: District of Columbia". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library. Retrieved June 8, 2015.
Council, National Research (1982). Report of the Committee on Ballistic Acoustics. doi:10.17226/10264. ISBN 978-0-309-25372-7.
The Gallup Poll 1999. Wilmington, DE: Scholarly Resources Inc. 1999. pp. 248–249.
Cohen, Andrew (2016) [2014]. Two Days in June: John F. Kennedy and the 48 Hours That Changed History (illustrated, reprint ed.). Toronto: McClelland & Stewart. ISBN 978-0-7710-2389-7.
After a month's recovery Kennedy returned to duty, commanding the PT-59. He and his crew removed the original torpedo tubes and depth charges and refitted the vessel into a heavily armed gunboat, mounting two automatic 40mm guns and ten .50 caliber Browning machine guns. The new plan involved attaching a gunboat to each PT boat section, adding gun range and defensive power against barges and shore batteries which the 59 went on to encounter on several occasions from mid-October to mid-November.[60] On October 8, 1943, Kennedy was promoted to full lieutenant.[61] On November 2, Kennedy's PT-59 took part with two other PTs in the successful rescue of 40–50 marines. The 59 acted as a shield from shore fire and protected them as they escaped on two rescue landing craft at the base of the Warrior River at Choiseul Island, taking ten marines aboard and delivering them to safety.[62][63] Under doctor's orders, Kennedy was relieved of his command of PT-59 on November 18, and sent to the hospital on Tulagi.[64] From there he returned to the United States in early January 1944. After receiving treatment for his back injury, he was released from active duty in late 1944.[65]
^ After the war, Kennedy contacted the captain of the Amagiri, Kohei Hanami, and formed a friendship with him. Hanami later supported Kennedy's election campaign.[51]
Kennedy, Robert F. Jr. (May 15, 2018). American Values: Lessons I Learned from My Family. Harper. p. 142. ISBN 978-0-06-084834-7.
O'Brien, Michael (2005). John F. Kennedy: A Biography. New York: Thomas Dunne. ISBN 978-0-312-28129-8.
Thirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis (1969)
"USS PT 109". Michael W. Pocock and MaritimeQuest.com. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
^ JFK's "Address on the First Anniversary of the Alliance for Progress", White House reception for diplomatic cors of the Latin American republics, March 13, 1962. Public Papers of the Presidents – John F. Kennedy (1962), p. 223.
^ "President John F. Kennedy on His Historic Trip to Ireland". Shapell Manuscript Collection. Shapell Manuscript Foundation.
^ "The Kennedy–Nixon Presidential Debates, 1960". history.com. Archived from the original on January 9, 2021. Retrieved September 18, 2007.
^ "Citation for the Navy Marine Corps Medal". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Retrieved August 3, 2016.
Cottrell, John. Assassination! The World Stood Still (1964, OCLC 605055832)
^ "Presidents Who Served in the U.S. Navy". Frequently Asked Questions. Naval History & Heritage Command. January 11, 2007. Archived from the original on May 5, 2011. Retrieved May 12, 2011.
^ Shaw, John T. "JFK in the Senate: Pathway to the Presidency". Macmillan. Retrieved August 3, 2016.[permanent dead link]
Kennedy comments on the possible prevention of the Cold War
Israeli national interests to an extent were also at odds with Kennedy's endorsement of the United Nation's Johnson Plan, which devised a plan to return a small percentage of displaced Palestinians from the war of 1948 into what was by then, Israel. This continuation of the late UN Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold's plan for Palestinian repatriation particularity disturbed persons who had a hard line view of even Arab resettlement in Israel, or the more heavily feared, full repatriation. The Johnson plan was spearheaded by the Palestine Conciliation Commission's Dr. Joseph Ersey Johnson, while the United Nations attempted to oversee progression from writing - into action.[256][257]
List of presidents of the United States who died in office
Bugliosi, Vincent (2007). Reclaiming History: The Assassination of President John F. Kennedy. New York: Norton. ISBN 978-0-393-04525-3.
Although Kennedy only gave written approval for limited wiretapping of King's phones "on a trial basis, for a month or so",[334] Hoover extended the clearance so his men were "unshackled" to look for evidence in any areas of King's life they deemed worthy.[335] The wiretapping continued through June 1966 and was revealed in 1968.[336]
"Endocrine and Autoimmune Aspects of the Health History of John F. Kennedy"
"John F. Kennedy's Pre-Presidential Voting Record & Stands on Issues (p. 1 of 9) | JFK Library"
^ The Gallup Poll 1999. Wilmington, DE: Scholarly Resources Inc. 1999. pp. 248–249.
Portuguese Colonial WarAngolan War of IndependenceGuinea-Bissau War of IndependenceMozambican War of Independence
"Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Global Freedom Struggle". Stanford University. May 31, 2017. Retrieved December 3, 2019.
4Congressional career (1947–1960)											Toggle Congressional career (1947–1960) subsection																					4.1House of Representatives (1947–1953)																											4.2Senate (1953–1960)
^ "Churches Attended by John F. Kennedy | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
To the Economic Club of New York, he spoke in 1963 of "... the paradoxical truth that tax rates are too high and revenues too low; and the soundest way to raise revenue in the long term is to lower rates now."[283] Congress passed few of Kennedy's major programs during his lifetime, but did vote them through in 1964 and 1965 under his successor Johnson.[284]
In 1961, he was awarded the Laetare Medal by the University of Notre Dame, considered the most prestigious award for American Catholics.[435] He was posthumously awarded the Pacem in Terris Award (Latin: Peace on Earth). It was named after a 1963 encyclical letter by Pope John XXIII that calls upon all people of goodwill to secure peace among all nations. Kennedy also posthumously received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1963.[436]
Kennedy planned to attend Yale Law School after auditing courses on business law at Stanford, but canceled when American entry into World War II seemed imminent.[37] In 1940, Kennedy attempted to enter the army's Officer Candidate School. Despite months of training, he was medically disqualified due to his chronic lower back problems. On September 24, 1941, Kennedy, with the help of the director of the Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI) and the former naval attaché to Joseph Kennedy, Alan Kirk, joined the United States Naval Reserve. He was commissioned an ensign on October 26, 1941,[38] and joined the staff of the Office of Naval Intelligence in Washington, D.C.[39][40][41]
^ "JFK John F Kennedy baptism St. Aidan's church Brookline".
Gitlin (2009), The Ku Klux Klan: A Guide to an American Subculture, p. 29
^ "Operation Aphrodite ‹ HistoricWings.com :: A Magazine for Aviators, Pilots and Adventurers". historicwings.com.
^ "Total Scores/Overall Rankings | C-SPAN Survey on Presidents 2021 | C-SPAN.org". www.c-span.org.
On August 12, 1944, Kennedy's older brother, Joe Jr., a navy pilot, was killed while on a special and hazardous air mission for which he had volunteered; his explosive-laden plane blew up when its bombs detonated prematurely over the English Channel.[69]
Kennedy, John F. (August 11, 1961). "320—Letter to the President of the Seneca Nation of Indians Concerning the Kinzua Dam on the Allegheny River". The American Presidency Project. Retrieved February 25, 2012.
"Fast Facts about John F. Kennedy | JFK Library". www.jfklibrary.org.
^ Geis, Anna; Müller, Harald; Schörnig, Niklas (2013). The Militant Face of Democracy. ISBN 978-1-107-03740-3.
Jaikumar, Arjun (July 10, 2011). "On taxes, let's be Kennedy Democrats. Or Eisenhower Republicans. Or Nixon Republicans". Daily Kos. Retrieved February 23, 2012.
In the weeks immediately following the Vienna summit, more than 20,000 people fled from East Berlin to the western sector, reacting to statements from the U.S.S.R. Kennedy began intensive meetings on the Berlin issue, where Dean Acheson took the lead in recommending a military buildup alongside NATO allies.[148] In a July 1961 speech, Kennedy announced his decision to add $3.25 billion (equivalent to $29.47 billion in 2021) to the defense budget, along with over 200,000 additional troops, stating that an attack on West Berlin would be taken as an attack on the U.S. The speech received an 85% approval rating.[149]
At the urging of Kennedy's father, U.S. Representative James Michael Curley vacated his seat in the strongly Democratic 11th congressional district of Massachusetts to become mayor of Boston in 1946. Kennedy established his residency at an apartment building on 122 Bowdoin Street across from the Massachusetts State House.[77] With his father financing and running his campaign under the slogan "The New Generation Offers a Leader",[78] Kennedy won the Democratic primary with 42 percent of the vote, defeating ten other candidates.[79] His father joked after the campaign, "With the money I spent, I could have elected my chauffeur."[80] Campaigning around Boston, Kennedy called for better housing for veterans, better health care for all, and support for organized labor's campaign for reasonable work hours, a healthy workplace, and the right to organize, bargain, and strike. In addition, he campaigned for peace through the United Nations and strong opposition to the Soviet Union.[81] Though Republicans took control of the House in the 1946 elections, Kennedy defeated his Republican opponent in the general election, taking 73 percent of the vote. Along with Richard Nixon and Joseph McCarthy, Kennedy was one of several World War II veterans elected to Congress that year.[82]
Massa, Mark S. "A Catholic for President: John F. Kennedy and the Secular Theology of the Houston Speech, 1960." Journal of Church and State 39 (1997): 297–317.
Selverstone, Marc J., ed. A Companion to John F. Kennedy (Wiley-Blackwell, 2014, ISBN 978-1-4443-5036-4), Topical essays by scholars focusing on the historiography
^ a b ""JFK's Early Campaign"1957 | The Pop History Dig". pophistorydig.com.
Kennedy, John F. (John Fitzgerald) (2005). John F. Kennedy: 1962 : containing the public messages, speeches, and statements of the president, January 20 to December 31, 1962.
The Guardians: Jamal Khashoggi / Maria Ressa / Wa Lone / Kyaw Soe Oo / Staff of The Capital
No nation which expects to be the leader of other nations can expect to stay behind in this race for space. ... We choose to go to the Moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard.[355] Full text
Kennedy inspired affection and loyalty from the members of his team and his supporters.[418] According to Reeves, this included "the logistics of Kennedy's liaisons ... [which] required secrecy and devotion rare in the annals of the energetic service demanded by successful politicians."[419] Kennedy believed that his friendly relationship with members of the press would help protect him from public revelations about his sex life.[420]
Kennedy was taken to Parkland Hospital for emergency medical treatment, where he was pronounced dead 30 minutes later, at 1:00 p.m. (CST).[362] He was 46 years old and had been in office for 1,036 days. Lee Harvey Oswald, an order filler at the Texas School Book Depository from which the shots were fired, was arrested for the murder of police officer J. D. Tippit and was subsequently charged with Kennedy's assassination. He denied shooting anyone, claiming he was a patsy,[363][364] and was shot dead by Jack Ruby on November 24, before he could be prosecuted. Ruby was arrested and convicted for the murder of Oswald. Ruby successfully appealed his conviction and death sentence but became ill and died of cancer on January 3, 1967, while the date for his new trial was being set.
Selverstone, Marc. "JFK and the Space Race". White House Tapes–Presidential Recordings Program, Miller Center of Public Affairs, University of Virginia. Archived from the original on March 5, 2012. Retrieved February 26, 2012.
In December 1961, Qasim's government passed Public Law 80, which restricted the partially American-controlled Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC)'s concessionary holding to those areas in which oil was actually being produced, effectively expropriating 99.5% of the IPC concession. U.S. officials were alarmed by the expropriation as well as the recent Soviet veto of an Egyptian-sponsored UN resolution requesting the admittance of Kuwait as UN member state, which they believed were connected. Senior National Security Council adviser Robert Komer worried that if the IPC ceased production in response, Qasim might "grab Kuwait" (thus achieving a "stranglehold" on Middle Eastern oil production) or "throw himself into Russian arms". Komer also made note of widespread rumors that a nationalist coup against Qasim could be imminent, and had the potential to "get Iraq back on [a] more neutral keel".[260]
^ a b c d e "President John Fitzgerald Kennedy (1917–1963)". Michael W. Pocock and MaritimeQuest.com. Archived from the original on August 1, 2016. Retrieved August 1, 2016.
As president, Kennedy initiated the creation of security ties with Israel, and he is credited as the founder of the US-Israeli military alliance, which would be continued under subsequent presidents. Kennedy ended the arms embargo that the Eisenhower and Truman administrations had enforced on Israel. Describing the protection of Israel as a moral and national commitment, he was the first to introduce the concept of a "special relationship" (as he described it to Golda Meir) between the US and Israel.[244]
^ "The Presidency: Smiting the Foe". TIME. April 20, 1962. Archived from the original on December 4, 2008.
Rabe, Stephen G. John F. Kennedy: World Leader (Potomac Books, 2010) 189 pages
To ensure a peaceful demonstration, the organizers and Kennedy personally edited speeches that were inflammatory and agreed the March would be held on a Wednesday and would be over at 4:00 pm. Thousands of troops were placed on standby. Kennedy watched King's speech on TV and was very impressed. The March was considered a "triumph of managed protest", and not one arrest relating to the demonstration occurred. Afterwards, the March leaders accepted an invitation to the White House to meet with Kennedy and photos were taken. Kennedy felt that the March was a victory for him as well and bolstered the chances for his civil rights bill.[328]
Mufson, Steve (August 4, 2015). "Obama will echo Kennedy's American University nuclear speech from 1963". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 6, 2015.
Specious allegations in 1997 by UK journalist Terry O'Hanlon Golden, Andrew (July 27, 1997). "JFK The Bigamist. ... . The Truth At Last; Kennedy was already married when he got wed to Jackie. ... ". Sunday Mirror. Retrieved October 31, 2010. and by author Seymour Hersh Reingold, Joyce (March 26, 2008). "JFK 'Secret Marriage' A Story With Legs". Palm Beach Daily News. Archived from the original on May 10, 2011. Retrieved October 31, 2010. that Kennedy had married previously have been soundly disproven. Reeves states that Ben Bradlee, then at Newsweek, inspected FBI files on it, and confirmed the falsehood. Reeves 1993, p. 348; for further refutation, see O'Brien 2005, p. 706.
Mandel, Lee R. (2009). "Endocrine and Autoimmune Aspects of the Health History of John F. Kennedy". Annals of Internal Medicine. 151 (5): 350–354. doi:10.7326/0003-4819-151-5-200909010-00011. PMID 19721023.
^ Brauer 2002, p. 497. sfn error: no target: CITEREFBrauer_2002 (help)
"Life Portrait of John F. Kennedy", from C-SPAN's American Presidents: Life Portraits, November 5, 1999
In early 1962, Kennedy formally authorized escalated involvement when he signed the National Security Action Memorandum – "Subversive Insurgency (War of Liberation)".[199] "Operation Ranch Hand", a large-scale aerial defoliation effort, began on the roadsides of South Vietnam.[200] Depending on which assessment Kennedy accepted (Department of Defense or State), there had been zero or modest progress in countering the increase in communist aggression in return for an expanded U.S. involvement.[201]
Kennedy brought to the White House a contrast in organization compared to the decision-making structure of former General Eisenhower, and he wasted no time in scrapping Eisenhower's methods.[137] Kennedy preferred the organizational structure of a wheel with all the spokes leading to the president. He was ready and willing to make the increased number of quick decisions required in such an environment. He selected a mixture of experienced and inexperienced people to serve in his cabinet. "We can learn our jobs together", he stated.[138]
Russ. "26, 2009#P12844 Life in Legacy". Lifeinlegacy.com. Archived from the original on May 12, 2011. Retrieved March 28, 2010.
"JFK's personal connection to Army's Green Berets". CBS Interactive Inc. Retrieved August 3, 2016.
^ Art, Robert J. (1968). The TFX decision; McNamara and the military. Boston: Little, Brown. pp. ix–xi. OCLC 294546.
"Report of the Select Committee on Assassinations of the U.S. House of Representatives". U.S. House of Representatives. Retrieved November 11, 2013.
"Peoria Open Space Master Plan: Chapter 4 – Historic and Cultural Resources"
Kempe, Frederick (2011). Berlin 1961. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons. ISBN 978-0-399-15729-5.
^ a b Bundy, McGeorge (October 11, 1963). "National Security Action Memorandum # 263". JFK Lancer. Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved February 19, 2012.
"Greatest of the Century". Gallup/CNN/USA Today Poll. December 20–21, 1999. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
^ Kennedy, John F. (July 15, 1960). "Address of Senator John F. Kennedy Accepting the Democratic Party Nomination for the Presidency of the United States". John F. Kennedy Presidential Library. Retrieved August 2, 2016.
^ "John F. Kennedy: Executive Order 10980". Retrieved January 25, 2011.
^ a b "John F. Kennedy". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved January 16, 2017.
Bilharz, Joy Ann (2002) [1998]. The Allegany Senecas and Kinzua Dam: Forced Relocation Through Two Generations. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press. ISBN 978-0-8032-1282-4.
Kennedy was concerned with other issues in the early part of his administration, such as the Cold War, Bay of Pigs fiasco, and the situation in Southeast Asia. As articulated by his brother Robert, the administration's early priority was to "keep the president out of this civil rights mess". Civil rights movement participants, mainly those on the front line in the South, viewed Kennedy as lukewarm,[304] especially concerning the Freedom Riders, who organized an integrated public transportation effort in the south, and who were repeatedly met with white mob violence, including by law enforcement officers, both federal and state. Kennedy assigned federal marshals to protect the Freedom Riders rather than using federal troops or uncooperative FBI agents.[304] Robert Kennedy, speaking for the president, urged the Freedom Riders to "get off the buses and leave the matter to peaceful settlement in the courts".[307] Kennedy feared sending federal troops would stir up "hated memories of Reconstruction" after the Civil War among conservative Southern whites.[304]
The Kennedy family is one of the most established political families in the United States, having produced a president, three senators, three ambassadors, and multiple other representatives and politicians, both at the federal and state level. While a Congressman, Kennedy embarked on a seven-week trip to India, Japan, Vietnam, and Israel in 1951, at which point he became close with his then 25-year-old brother Bobby, as well as his 27-year-old sister Pat. Because they were several years apart in age, the brothers had previously seen little of each other. This 25,000-mile (40,000 km) trip was the first extended time they had spent together and resulted in their becoming best friends.[380] Bobby would eventually play a major role in his brother's career, serving as his brother's attorney general and presidential advisor.[380] Bobby would later run for president in 1968 before his assassination, while another Kennedy brother, Ted, ran for president in 1980.
The address reflected Kennedy's confidence that his administration would chart a historically significant course in both domestic policy and foreign affairs. The contrast between this optimistic vision and the pressures of managing daily political realities at home and abroad would be one of the main tensions running through the early years of his administration.[136]
Art, Robert J. (1968). The TFX decision; McNamara and the military. Boston: Little, Brown. pp. ix–xi. OCLC 294546.
Wikipedia articles that may have off-topic sections from January 2023
In logic and semantics, connotation is roughly synonymous with intension. Connotation is often contrasted with denotation, which is more or less synonymous with extension. Alternatively, the connotation of the word may be thought of as the set of all its possible referents (as opposed to merely the actual ones). A word's denotation is the collection of things it refers to; its connotation is what it implies about the things it is used to refer to ( a second level of meanings is termed connotative ). The connotation of dog is (something like) four-legged canine carnivore. So saying, "You are a dog" would connote that you were ugly or aggressive rather than literally denoting you as a canine.[3]
Terry Eagleton (1991). Ideology: An Introduction. Verso. p. 197. ISBN 0-86091-538-7.
^ BK Sahni (2017). BPY-002: Logic: Classical and Symbolic Logic.
"Connotation" branches into a mixture of different meanings. These could include the contrast of a word or phrase with its primary, literal meaning (known as a denotation), with what that word or phrase specifically denotes. The connotation essentially relates to how anything may be associated with a word or phrase; for example, an implied value, judgement or feelings.[2]
Note that not all theories of linguistic meaning honor the distinction between literal meaning and (this kind of) connotation. See literal and figurative language.
This page was last edited on 16 January 2023, at 19:57 (UTC).
A connotation is a commonly understood cultural or emotional association thatany given word or phrase carries, in addition to its explicit or literal meaning, which is its denotation.
The denotation is a representation of a cartoon heart. The connotation is a symbol of love and affection.
The denotation is a brown cross. The connotation is a symbol of religion, according to the media connotation. However, to be more specific this is a symbol of Christianity.
^ Terry Eagleton (1991). Ideology: An Introduction. Verso. p. 197. ISBN 0-86091-538-7.
^ Note that not all theories of linguistic meaning honor the distinction between literal meaning and (this kind of) connotation. See literal and figurative language.
A connotation is frequently described as either positive or negative, with regard to its pleasing or displeasing emotional connection.[1] For example, a stubborn person may be described as being either strong-willed or pig-headed; although these have the same literal meaning (stubborn), strong-willed connotes admiration for the level of someone's will (a positive connotation), while pig-headed connotes frustration in dealing with someone (a negative connotation).
The denotation of this example is a red rose with a green stem. The connotation is that it is a symbol of passion and love – this is what the rose represents.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Peter A. White (27 March 2017). "Feelings and JEA Sequences". Psychological Metaphysics. p. 315. ISBN 978-1315473550.
Semiotic closure, as defined by Terry Eagleton, concerns "a sealed world of ideological stability, which repels the disruptive, decentered forces of language in the name of an imaginary unity. Signs are ranked by a certain covert violence into rigidly hierarchical order. . . . The process of forging ‘representations’ always involves this arbitrary closing of the signifying chain, constricting the free play of the signifier to a spuriously determinate meaning which can then be received by the subject as natural and inevitable".[5][relevant?]
^ "Connotation and Denotation" (PDF). California State University, Northridge. pp. 1–8.
"Connotation and Denotation" (PDF). California State University, Northridge. pp. 1–8.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Peter A. White (27 March 2017). "Feelings and JEA Sequences". Psychological Metaphysics. p. 315. ISBN 978-1315473550.
It is often useful to avoid words with strong connotations (especially pejorative or disparaging ones) when striving to achieve a neutral point of view. A desire for more positive connotations, or fewer negative ones, is one of the main reasons for using euphemisms.[4]
