Fire & Blood, The Dying of the Dragons - Rhaenyra Overthrown.
During the Dance of the Dragons, Prince Daemon Targaryen desired revenge for the death of his stepson, Prince Lucerys Velaryon. With a pale stranger used as a go-between, two assassins, Blood and Cheese, infiltrated the Red Keep and killed Prince Jaehaerys Targaryen, the eldest son of King Aegon II Targaryen. Under torture, Blood admitted that he had been hired by a pale older woman called Misery by harlots. The gold cloaks were unable to find Mysaria or Cheese, however.[5][7]
The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aegon II.
The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Viserys I.
The television series House of the Dragon interprets various events that are disputed in the historical record. In the show, Mysaria's supposed pregnancy at Dragonstone is presented as a lie that Daemon made up as part of an attempt to provoke his brother, also writing to the small council that he would take her as his second wife in the custom of Old Valyria. She did not know of this until Ser Otto Hightower arrived at Dragonstone for the egg, and was deeply upset that Daemon put her life in danger.[9]
Mysaria, also called Lady Misery, was a dancer from Lys who became the paramour of Prince Daemon Targaryen and the unofficial mistress of whisperers to Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen during the Dance of the Dragons.[1]
↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aegon II.
During the riot of King's Landing, Mysaria warned Rhaenyra against the coming dark. When Rhaenyra ultimately fled the capital, Mysaria remained at the Red Keep among other members of the court. Mysaria was taken while attempting to flee after Ser Garth the Harelip surrendered the Red Keep to Ser Perkin the Flea and his gutter knights. Perkin informed Mysaria that if she could travel naked through the city to the Gate of the Gods while being whipped, she would be allowed to live. Mysaria only made it half way before dying on the city's cobblestones.[3]
Let Daemon slake his hungers where he will, and we shall do the same.[1]
↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aerys I.
1Served as advisor and spymaster for Daeron II and master of whisperers for Aerys I
Fire & Blood, Heirs of the Dragon - A Question of Succession.
While serving as mistress of whisperers, Mysaria wore a hooded robe of black velvet lined with blood-red silk.[1]
After Lord Corlys Velaryon was imprisoned for warning Ser Addam Velaryon of his impending arrest under charges of treason, two of the Sea Snake's sworn swords, Ser Denys Woodwright and Ser Thoron True, planned to free their lord. Mysaria learned of the plan from a whore Thoron had been bedding, however, and the two knights were promptly arrested and hanged. Septon Eustace suggests that Helaena Targaryen jumped to her death after being informed by Mysaria of how her son, Prince Maelor Targaryen, had been killed at Bitterbridge.[3]
In the television adaptation House of the Dragon, Mysaria is portrayed by Sonoya Mizuno.[4]
Following the First Battle of Tumbleton, Mysaria informed Rhaenyra that Daemon had been sleeping with Nettles, his fellow dragonrider, at Maidenpool. Rhaenyra ordered the death of Nettles, but Lord Manfryd Mooton disobeyed the command. Nettles disappeared on Sheepstealer, while Daemon flew on Caraxes to Harrenhal to await a confrontation with his nephew.[1]
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 Fire & Blood, Heirs of the Dragon - A Question of Succession.
↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 Fire & Blood, The Dying of the Dragons - Rhaenyra Overthrown.
Fire & Blood, The Dying of the Dragons - A Son for a Son.
The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aerys I.
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 Fire & Blood, The Dying of the Dragons - Rhaenyra Triumphant.
Fire & Blood, The Dying of the Dragons - Rhaenyra Triumphant.
Lord Brynden Rivers was said to have rivaled Lady Misery as a master of whisperers.[8]
↑ 6.0 6.1 The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Viserys I.
Mysaria had skin pale as milk. She was lithe and lissome in her youth, but age thickened her body.[1] Because of her appearance and reputation, Mysaria was dubbed Misery, the White Worm by enemies and rivals.[2][5][6]
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 Fire & Blood, The Dying of the Dragons - A Son for a Son.
↑ House of the Dragon, Season 1, "The Rogue Prince".
While a dancing girl in King's Landing, Mysaria became the favored lover of Prince Daemon Targaryen.[2] Around 105 AC, Mysaria became pregnant with Daemon's child while living at Dragonstone. Daemon gave his paramour a dragon egg for the child, which angered King Viserys I Targaryen. The king ordered Daemon to return the egg and send Mysaria back to Lys. On her return to the Free City, she lost the child during a storm on the narrow sea.[2]
Community portal BooksChapter SummariesCharactersHouses of WesterosTimeline of major eventsGeograpyCultureTV Show
Mysaria became Daemon's mistress of whisperers at some point.[6] After the fall of King's Landing to Rhaenyra, Mysaria served as the queen's mistress of whisperers in all but name, although she did not join the small council. Rhaenyra apparently approved of Daemon sleeping with Mysaria each night.[1] According to Mushroom, Mysaria stopped Rhaenyra from having Queen Alicent Hightower's tongue ripped out, instead proposing that the Dowager Queen and Queen Helaena Targaryen to be taken to a certain brothel so they would be forcibly impregnated with bastard offspring. Archmaester Gyldayn discounts Mushroom's claim, however.[1]
Finally, after watching his brother and friends get swallowed, A. Jay is left, who she quickly grabs. She holds him by the collar of his shirt, which is pinched between her fingers, and gives him one final smile. After that she tosses him into the air and catches the flailing A. Jay in her mouth and devours him. Having eaten all the men, she happily strolls off and the video ends.[5]
Her next target is Jeremy, who is hiding behind a speaker. She creeps up behind him and positions herself right above the guitarist. Jeremy throws his hands up as if begging her to stop. Pamela inhales and slurps him into her mouth. She then pauses for a moment, rolling something around on her tongue. She then spits out one of his signature white-flame shoes, which had been left behind after she swallowed him.
This is followed by them performing on her head, her knee, returning to play on her butt, and walking across her breasts. There are also several shots interspersed of different bandmembers on her raised knee as she reclines back, watching them intently. She begins swaying to the music as the band performs around her. Shortly afterwards she starts eyeing them as she holds them in her hand.
Lit's vocalist, A. Jay Popoff, said that " 'Miserable' is basically about feeling like you need something really bad, and when you have it, it makes you feel like shit. Some people feel it's about a person, but it's not necessarily. It can be about addiction".[4]
^ "Lit drummer Allen Shellengberger has brain cancer". Musicradar. 23 May 2008.
The band goes back to performing in front of her rather than on her before it cuts to her lying down and the band on her face.
"Lit Chart History (Bubbling Under Hot 100)". Billboard.Retrieved October 27, 2021.
"Miserable" is a song by the American rock band Lit. It is the third single released in autumn 1999 from Lit's second album, A Place in the Sun.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Billboard". 15 January 2000.
^ "Woodstock '99 Report #16: Lit Get Down, Buckcherry Get 'Lit Up'". MTV.
The song had an accompanying music video, which was filmed around February 2000 in Los Angeles and directed by Evan Bernard and produced by Keeley Gould, in which the band is portrayed performing the song on and around a huge Pamela Anderson, who wears a white bikini and platform shoes.The video begins by panning over Anderson's body and then reveals her to be enormous, and that the band is performing on her butt as she lies on her belly. The band is later seen hiking up the incline of her hip while she playfully waves at them.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Billboard". 15 January 2000.
While they are performing on her face Kevin Baldes is standing on her lips. She opens her mouth, causing him to fall inside and she intentionally swallows him. The other band members panic and run from her as she chases after them.
"Lit drummer Allen Shellengberger has brain cancer". Musicradar. 23 May 2008.
"Woodstock '99 Report #16: Lit Get Down, Buckcherry Get 'Lit Up'". MTV.
^ Pesselnick, Jill (April 1, 2000). "The Modern Age". Billboard. Vol. 112, no. 14. Nielsen Business Media, Inc. p. 101. ISSN 0006-2510.
Pesselnick, Jill (April 1, 2000). "The Modern Age". Billboard. Vol. 112, no. 14. Nielsen Business Media, Inc. p. 101. ISSN 0006-2510.
With her foot casually poised in the air, the band stands on the bottom of her platform heels. Pamela, meanwhile glances back and giggles at them. She casually yet playfully shakes her platform heel, and A. Jay and the others struggle to keep from falling off. When they manage to keep their footing, she looks away and rolls her eyes.
This page was last edited on 19 May 2022, at 10:55 (UTC).
"Woodstock '99 Report #16: Lit Get Down, Buckcherry Get 'Lit Up'"
^ "Lit Chart History (Mainstream Rock)". Billboard.Retrieved October 27, 2021.
As the members of Lit scatter, Pamela Anderson singles out Allen and easily catches up to him, despite running in high heels. She scoops him up and dangles him in front of her face. Allen puts his hands out in front of him and attempts to plead for his life. However Pamela simply regards him coldly. Unmoved, she pops him into her mouth and eats him alive.
^ "Lit Chart History (Alternative Airplay)". Billboard.Retrieved October 27, 2021.
^ "Lit Chart History (Bubbling Under Hot 100)". Billboard.Retrieved October 27, 2021.
^ Victor Hugo. "Les misérables, Tome I". Retrieved 23 April 2015.
The author also states to the reader that Éponine anonymously threw the note to Valjean. Éponine then tells Marius that she has a letter for him. She also confesses to have obtained the letter the day before, originally not planning to give it to him, but decides to do so in fear he would be angry at her about it in the afterlife. After Marius takes the letter, Éponine then asks him to kiss her on the forehead when she is dead, which he promises to do. With her last breath, she confesses that she was "a little bit in love" with him, and dies.
^ La réception des Misérables en 1862 – Max Bach – PMLA, Vol. 77, No. 5 (December 1962)
An incident Hugo witnessed in 1829 involved three strangers and a police officer. One of the strangers was a man who had stolen a loaf of bread, similar to Jean Valjean. The officer was taking him to the coach. The thief also saw the mother and daughter playing with each other which would be an inspiration for Fantine and Cosette. Hugo imagined the life of the man in jail and the mother and daughter taken away from each other.[15]
Towards the end of the novel, Hugo explains the work's overarching structure:[8]
"David Oyelowo, Dominic West, Lily Collins to Star in BBC's Les Misérables Miniseries"
The book which the reader has before him at this moment is, from one end to the other, in its entirety and details ... a progress from evil to good, from injustice to justice, from falsehood to truth, from night to day, from appetite to conscience, from corruption to life; from bestiality to duty, from hell to heaven, from nothingness to God. The starting point: matter, destination: the soul. The hydra at the beginning, the angel at the end.
Valjean escapes, is recaptured, and is sentenced to death. The king commutes his sentence to penal servitude for life. While imprisoned in the Bagne of Toulon, Valjean, at great personal risk, rescues a sailor caught in the ship's rigging. Spectators call for his release. Valjean fakes his own death by allowing himself to fall into the ocean. Authorities report him dead and his body lost.
Brombert 1988, pp. 198–199; Vol. 2, Book 1, Chapter 1.
The First Detective: The Life and Revolutionary Times of Vidocq, Criminal, Spy and Private Eye
Valjean's character is loosely based on the life of the ex-convict Eugène François Vidocq. Vidocq became the head of an undercover police unit and later founded France's first private detective agency. He was also a businessman and was widely noted for his social engagement and philanthropy. Vidocq also inspired Hugo's "Claude Gueux" and Le Dernier jour d'un condamné (The Last Day of a Condemned Man).[16]
^ "Read the Ten Longest Novels Ever Written". Amazon.com. Retrieved 31 December 2012.
Behr, Edward (1993). The Complete Book of Les Misérables. New York: Arcade. p. 29.
^ Otterson, Joe (9 January 2018). "David Oyelowo, Dominic West, Lily Collins to Star in BBC's Les Misérables Miniseries". Variety.
Victor Hugo drew his inspiration from everything he heard and saw, writing it down in his diary. In December 1846, he witnessed an altercation between an old woman scavenging through rubbish and a street urchin who might have been Gavroche.[26] He also informed himself by personal inspection of the Paris Conciergerie in 1846 and Waterloo in 1861, by gathering information on some industries, and on working-class people's wages and living standards. He asked his mistresses, Léonie d'Aunet and Juliette Drouet, to tell him about life in convents. He also slipped personal anecdotes into the plot. For instance Marius and Cosette's wedding night (Part V, Book 6, Chapter 1) takes place on 16 February 1833, which is also the date when Hugo and his lifelong mistress Juliette Drouet made love for the first time.[27]
As they rush to Valjean's house, Marius tells Cosette that Valjean saved his life at the barricade. They arrive to find Valjean near death and reconcile with him. Valjean tells Cosette her mother's story and name. He dies content and is buried beneath a blank slab in Père Lachaise Cemetery.
Chenildieu – A lifer from Toulon. He and Valjean were chain mates for five years. He once tried to unsuccessfully remove his lifer's brand TFP ("travaux forcés à perpetuité", "forced labour for life") by putting his shoulder on a chafing dish full of embers. He is described as a small, wiry but energetic man.
Victor Hugo. "Les misérables, Tome I". Retrieved 23 April 2015.
Enjolras – The leader of the Friends. A resolute and charismatic youth, devoted to progress.
^ Goncourt, Edmond et Jules, Journal, Vol. I, Laffont, 1989, ISBN 2-221-05527-6, April 1862, pp. 808–809
^ "Personalities". The New York Times. 10 April 1860. Retrieved 3 January 2013.
Zéphine – A young grisette in Paris and member of Fantine's group of seamstress friends along with Favourite and Dahlia. She becomes romantically involved with Félix Tholomyès' friend Fameuil.
Examining the nature of law and grace, the novel elaborates upon the history of France, the architecture and urban design of Paris, politics, moral philosophy, antimonarchism, justice, religion, and the types and nature of romantic and familial love.
Marius slowly recovers from his injuries. As he and Cosette make wedding preparations, Valjean endows them with a fortune of nearly 600,000 francs. As their wedding party winds through Paris during Mardi Gras festivities, Valjean is spotted by Thénardier, who then orders Azelma to follow him. After the wedding, Valjean confesses to Marius that he is an ex-convict. Marius is horrified, assumes the worst about Valjean's moral character, and contrives to limit Valjean's time with Cosette. Valjean accedes to Marius' judgment and his separation from Cosette. Valjean loses the will to live and retires to his bed.
Azelma – The younger daughter of the Thénardiers. Like her sister Éponine, she is spoiled as a child, impoverished when older. She abets her father's failed robbery of Valjean. On Marius and Cosette's wedding day, she tails Valjean on her father's orders. She travels to America with her father at the end of the novel.
The 1934 film, 4½-hour French version directed by Raymond Bernard and starring Harry Baur, Charles Vanel, Florelle, Josseline Gaël and Jean Servais.
^ Les 5 et 6 Juin 1832. L'Evenement et Les Miserables
Waterloo, by cutting short the demolition of European thrones by the sword, had no other effect than to cause the revolutionary work to be continued in another direction. The slashers have finished; it was the turn of the thinkers. The century that Waterloo was intended to arrest has pursued its march. That sinister victory was vanquished by liberty.
The next morning, Valjean informs the Thénardiers that he wants to take Cosette with him. Madame Thénardier immediately accepts, while Thénardier pretends to love Cosette and be concerned for her welfare, reluctant to give her up. Valjean pays the Thénardiers 1,500 francs, and he and Cosette leave the inn. Thénardier, hoping to swindle more out of Valjean, runs after them, holding the 1,500 francs, and tells Valjean he wants Cosette back. He informs Valjean that he cannot release Cosette without a note from the child's mother. Valjean hands Thénardier Fantine's letter authorizing the bearer to take Cosette. Thénardier then demands that Valjean pay a thousand crowns, but Valjean and Cosette leave. Thénardier regrets that he did not bring his gun and turns back toward home.
When Marius arrives at the barricade, the revolution has already started. When he stoops down to pick up a powder keg, a soldier comes up to shoot Marius. However, a man covers the muzzle of the soldier's gun with his hand. The soldier fires, fatally wounding the man, while missing Marius. Meanwhile, the soldiers are closing in. Marius climbs to the top of the barricade, holding a torch in one hand, a powder keg in the other, and threatens to the soldiers that he will blow up the barricade. After confirming this, the soldiers retreat from the barricade.
Favourite – A young grisette in Paris and leader of Fantine's group of seamstress friends (including Zéphine and Dahlia). She is independent and well versed in the ways of the world and had previously been in England. Although she cannot stand Félix Tholomyès' friend Blachevelle and is in love with someone else, she endures a relationship with him so she can enjoy the perks of courting a wealthy man.
4Characters											Toggle Characters subsection																					4.1Major																											4.2Friends of the ABC																											4.3Minor																											4.4The narrator
Victor Hugo, Things Seen, vol. 1 (Glasgow and New York: George Routledge and Sons, 1887), 49–52. The chapter is title "1841. Origin of Fantine". Behr quotes this passage at length in Behr 1993, 32–36.
A. F. Davidson, Victor Hugo: His Life And Work (J. B. Lippincott, 1929), Kindle Location 4026, 4189
In 1841, Hugo saved a prostitute from arrest for assault. He used a short part of his dialogue with the police when recounting Valjean's rescue of Fantine in the novel.[21] On 22 February 1846, when he had begun work on the novel, Hugo witnessed the arrest of a bread thief while a duchess and her child watched the scene pitilessly from their coach.[22][23] He spent several vacations in Montreuil-sur-Mer.[24]
^ Alexander Welsh, "Opening and Closing Les Misérables," in Harold Bloom, ed., Modern Critical Views: Victor Hugo (Chelsea House, 1988), 151–152
Guyon, Loïc Pierre (2002). "Un aventurier picaresque au XIXe siècle: Eugène-François Vidocq".In Glaser, Albert; Kleine-Roßbach, Sabine (eds.). Abenteurer als Helden der Literatur (in French). Springer. doi:10.1007/978-3-476-02877-8. ISBN 978-3-476-02877-8.
More than a quarter of the novel—by one count 955 of 2,783 pages—is devoted to essays that argue a moral point or display Hugo's encyclopedic knowledge but do not advance the plot, nor even a subplot, a method Hugo used in such other works as The Hunchback of Notre-Dame and Toilers of the Sea. One biographer noted that "the digressions of genius are easily pardoned".[11] The topics Hugo addresses include cloistered religious orders, the construction of the Paris sewers, argot, and the street urchins of Paris. The one about convents he titles "Parenthesis" to alert the reader to its irrelevance to the story line.[12]
^ Alexander Welsh, "Opening and Closing Les Misérables", in Harold Bloom, ed., Victor Hugo: Modern Critical Views (NY: Chelsea House, 1988), 155; Vol. 5, Book 1, Chapter 20
^ Rosa, Annette, Introduction to Les Misérables, Laffont, 1985, ISBN 2-221-04689-7
^ a b Robb, Graham (1997). Victor Hugo: A Biography. New York: W. W. Norton. ISBN 9780393045789.
The work was a commercial success and has been a popular book ever since it was published.[38][39] Translated the same year it appeared into several foreign languages, including Italian, Greek, and Portuguese, it proved popular not only in France, but across Europe and abroad.
^ "Les Mis Study Guide – About the Novel" (PDF). lesmis.com. 15 August 2014.
Jean Prouvaire (also Jehan) – A Romantic with knowledge of Italian, Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, and an interest in the Middle Ages.
Isabel Florence Hapgood. Published 1887, this translation is available at Project Gutenberg.[41]
"Les Misérables, Victor Hugo, first edition, 1862". ABE Books. Retrieved 21 January 2013.
^ Hyslop, Lois Bee (October 1976). "Baudelaire on Les Misérables". The French Review. 41 (1): 23–29.
Upton Sinclair described the novel as "one of the half-dozen greatest novels of the world", and remarked that Hugo set forth the purpose of Les Misérables in the Preface:[7]
Carter, Alice (24 December 2012). "Victor Hugo's 150-year-old tragedy continues to excite on stage and film". Triblive. Retrieved 29 June 2020.
^ Sinclair, Upton (1915). The Cry for Justice: An Anthology of the Literature of Social Protest. charlesrivereditors.com Charles Rivers Editors. ISBN 978-1-247-96345-7.
Morton, James (2004). The First Detective: The Life and Revolutionary Times of Vidocq, Criminal, Spy and Private Eye. New York: Overlook Press. ISBN 9781590208908.
^ Victor Hugo, Choses vues: nouvelle série (Paris: Calman Lévy, 1900), 129–130
Radio Programs Scheduled for this Week, The New York Times, 25 July 1937
This page was last edited on 11 March 2023, at 17:09 (UTC).
Réception des Misérables au Portugal Archived 29 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine
Courfeyrac – A law student who is described as the centre of the group of Friends. He is honorable and warm and is Marius' closest companion.
"Read the Ten Longest Novels Ever Written". Amazon.com. Retrieved 31 December 2012.
The philanthropist and his daughter enter—actually Valjean and Cosette. Marius immediately recognizes Cosette. After seeing them, Valjean promises them he will return with rent money for them. After he and Cosette leave, Marius asks Éponine to retrieve her address for him. Éponine, who is in love with Marius herself, reluctantly agrees to do so. The Thénardiers have also recognized Valjean and Cosette, and vow their revenge. Thénardier enlists the aid of the Patron-Minette, a well-known and feared gang of murderers and robbers.
^ Hugo, Victor, Les Misérables (Preface by A. Rosa), Laffont, 1985, ISBN 2-221-04689-7, p. IV.
^ Radio Programs Scheduled for this Week, The New York Times, 25 July 1937
No, It's Not Actually the French Revolution: Les Misérables and History.
Charles E. Wilbour. New York: Carleton Publishing Company, June 1862. The first English translation. The first volume was available for purchase in New York beginning 7 June 1862.[40] Also New York and London: George Routledge and Sons, 1879.
Eight years later, the Friends of the ABC, led by Enjolras, are preparing an act of anti-Orléanist civil unrest (i.e. the Paris uprising on 5–6 June 1832, following the death of General Lamarque, the only French leader who had sympathy towards the working class. Lamarque was a victim of a major cholera epidemic that had ravaged the city, particularly its poor neighborhoods, arousing suspicion that the government had been poisoning wells). The Friends of the ABC are joined by the poor of the Cour des miracles, including the Thénardiers' eldest son Gavroche, who is a street urchin.
^ "Les Misérables: la suite rejugée en appel". Le Nouvel Observateur. 30 January 2007. Retrieved 4 January 2013.
Upon exiting, Valjean encounters Javert and requests time to return Marius to his family before surrendering to him. Surprisingly Javert agrees, assuming that Marius will be dead within minutes. After leaving Marius at his grandfather's house, Valjean asks to be allowed a brief visit to his own home, and Javert agrees. There, Javert tells Valjean he will wait for him in the street, but when Valjean scans the street from the landing window he finds Javert has gone. Javert walks down the street, realizing that he is caught between his strict belief in the law and the mercy Valjean has shown him. He feels he can no longer give Valjean up to the authorities but also cannot ignore his duty to the law. Unable to cope with this dilemma, Javert commits suicide by throwing himself into the Seine.
Bougon, Madame (called Ma'am Burgon) – Housekeeper of Gorbeau House.
"Les Misérables". Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English. Longman. Retrieved 16 August 2019.
The 2010 concert starring Alfie Boe, Norm Lewis, Samantha Barks and Lea Salonga performed at The O2 Arena. [49]
Alexander Welsh, "Opening and Closing Les Misérables", in Harold Bloom, ed., Victor Hugo: Modern Critical Views (NY: Chelsea House, 1988), 155; Vol. 5, Book 1, Chapter 20
^ Robb, Graham (1999). Victor Hugo: A Biography. W. W. Norton. ISBN 978-0393318999.
Rosa, Annette, Introduction to Les Misérables, Laffont, 1985, ISBN 2-221-04689-7
Monsieur Thénardier and Madame Thénardier (also known as the Jondrettes, M. Fabantou, M. Thénard. Some translations identify her as the Thenardiess) – Husband and wife, parents of five children: two daughters, Éponine and Azelma, and three sons, Gavroche and two unnamed younger sons. As innkeepers, they abuse Cosette as a child and extort payment from Fantine for her support, until Valjean takes Cosette away. They become bankrupt and relocate under the name Jondrette to a house in Paris called the Gorbeau house, living in the room next to Marius. The husband associates with a criminal group called "the Patron-Minette", and conspires to rob Valjean until he is thwarted by Marius. Javert arrests the couple. The wife dies in prison. Her husband attempts to blackmail Marius with his knowledge of Valjean's past, but Marius pays him to leave the country and he becomes a slave trader in the United States.
Laura Kalpakian's Cosette: The Sequel to Les Misérables was published in 1995. It continues the story of Cosette and Marius, but is more a sequel to the musical than to the original novel.
Review by Edwin Percy Whipple The Atlantic Monthly. July 1862.
Brevet – An ex-convict from Toulon who knew Valjean there; released one year after Valjean. In 1823, he is serving time in the prison in Arras for an unknown crime. He is the first to claim that Champmathieu is really Valjean. He used to wear knitted, checkered suspenders.
Victor Hugo, Choses vues: nouvelle série (Paris: Calman Lévy, 1900), 129–130
Thénardier approaches Marius in disguise, but Marius recognizes him. Thénardier attempts to blackmail Marius with what he knows of Valjean, but in doing so, he inadvertently corrects Marius's misconceptions about Valjean and reveals all of the good he has done. He tries to convince Marius that Valjean is actually a murderer, and presents the piece of coat he tore off as evidence. Stunned, Marius recognizes the fabric as part of his own coat and realizes that it was Valjean who rescued him from the barricade. Marius pulls out a fistful of notes and flings it at Thénardier's face. He then confronts Thénardier with his crimes and offers him an immense sum to depart and never return. Thénardier accepts the offer, and he and Azelma travel to America where he becomes a slave trader.
^ Victor Hugo, Things Seen, vol. 1 (Glasgow and New York: George Routledge and Sons, 1887), 49–52. The chapter is title "1841. Origin of Fantine". Behr quotes this passage at length in Behr 1993, 32–36.
^ The Broadway League. "The official source for Broadway Information". IBDB. Retrieved 31 December 2012.
Théodule Gillenormand – Army officer and Marius' cousin. He makes a half-hearted and unsuccessful attempt at supplanting Marius in the affections of Marius' grandfather.
^ Turner, David Hancock (18 January 2013). "Les Misérables and Its Critics". Jacobin. Retrieved 14 June 2016.
^ Van Gelder, Lawrence (1 February 2007). "French Court Says Yes to Misérables Sequels". The New York Times. Retrieved 4 January 2013.
Jean Valjean (also known as Monsieur Madeleine, Ultime Fauchelevent, Monsieur Leblanc, and Urbain Fabre) – The protagonist of the novel. Convicted for stealing a loaf of bread to feed his sister's seven starving children and sent to prison for five years, he is paroled from prison nineteen years later (after four unsuccessful escape attempts added twelve years and fighting back during the second escape attempt added two extra years). Rejected by society for being a former convict, he encounters Bishop Myriel, who turns his life around by showing him mercy and encouraging him to become a new man. While sitting and pondering what Bishop Myriel had said, he puts his shoe on a forty-sou piece dropped by a young wanderer. Valjean threatens the boy with his stick when the boy attempts to rouse Valjean from his reverie and recover his money. He tells a passing priest his name, and the name of the boy, and this allows the police to charge him with armed robbery – a sentence that, if he were caught again, would return him to prison for life. He assumes a new identity (Monsieur Madeleine) in order to pursue an honest life. He introduces new manufacturing techniques and eventually builds two factories and becomes one of the richest men in the area. By popular acclaim, he is made mayor. He confronts Javert over Fantine's punishment, turns himself in to the police to save another man from prison for life, and rescues Cosette from the Thénardiers. Discovered by Javert in Paris because of his generosity to the poor, he evades capture for the next several years in a convent. He saves Marius from imprisonment and probable death at the barricade, reveals his true identity to Marius and Cosette after their wedding, and is reunited with them just before his death, having kept his promise to the bishop and to Fantine, the image of whom is the last thing he sees before dying.
Hugo, Victor, Les Misérables (Preface by A. Rosa), Laffont, 1985, ISBN 2-221-04689-7, p. IV.
Bishop Myriel – The Bishop of Digne (full name Charles-François-Bienvenu Myriel, also called Monseigneur Bienvenu) – A kindly old priest promoted to bishop after a chance encounter with Napoleon. After Valjean steals some silver from him, he saves Valjean from being arrested and inspires Valjean to change his ways.
Marius fulfills her request and goes into a tavern to read the letter. It is written by Cosette. He learns Cosette's whereabouts and he writes a farewell letter to her. He sends Gavroche to deliver it to her, but Gavroche leaves it with Valjean. Valjean, learning that Cosette's lover is fighting, is at first relieved, but an hour later, he puts on a National Guard uniform, arms himself with a gun and ammunition, and leaves his home.
.mw-parser-output .citation{word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)} Les Misérables at Project Gutenberg – English translation.
^ Riding, Alan (29 May 2001). "Victor Hugo Can't Rest in Peace, As a Sequel Makes Trouble". The New York Times. Retrieved 4 January 2013.
A template for Hugo's novel was Les Mystères de Paris (The Mysteries of Paris), a serial novel of similar length which enjoyed great success on its appearance in 1842–43, by Eugène Sue. Les mystères, like Les Misérables, viewed contemporary Paris from the point of view of the downtrodden and criminal underclasses who had been little represented in novels up to the time, and featured the interventions of detectives and the indifference of aristocrats. Although socially progressive in tone it was more sensationalist than Les Misérables and did not have the same breadth of moral vision.
(Mlle) Baptistine Myriel – Bishop Myriel's sister. She loves and venerates her brother.
Mother Innocente (a.k.a. Marguerite de Blemeur) – The prioress of the Petit-Picpus convent.
The novel as a whole is one of the longest ever written,[9] with 655,478 words in the original French. Hugo explained his ambitions for the novel to his Italian publisher:[10]
"BBC News – Bon anniversaire! 25 facts about Les Mis"
Les Misérables public domain audiobook at LibriVox (in French, English, & Spanish)
"Les Misérables: la suite rejugée en appel". Le Nouvel Observateur. 30 January 2007. Retrieved 4 January 2013.
Magnon – Former servant of M. Gillenormand and friend of the Thénardiers. She had been receiving child support payments from M. Gillenormand for her two illegitimate sons, who she claimed were fathered by him. When her sons died in an epidemic, she had them replaced with the Thénardiers' two youngest sons so that she could protect her income. The Thénardiers get a portion of the payments. She is incorrectly arrested for involvement in the Gorbeau robbery.
Hugo does not give the narrator a name and allows the reader to identify the narrator with the novel's author. The narrator occasionally injects himself into the narrative or reports facts outside the time of the narrative to emphasize that he is recounting historical events, not entirely fiction. He introduces his recounting of Waterloo with several paragraphs describing the narrator's recent approach to the battlefield: "Last year (1861), on a beautiful May morning, a traveller, the person who is telling this story, was coming from Nivelles ..."[28] The narrator describes how "[a]n observer, a dreamer, the author of this book" during the 1832 street fighting was caught in crossfire: "All that he had to protect him from the bullets was the swell of the two half columns which separate the shops; he remained in this delicate situation for nearly half an hour." At one point he apologizes for intruding—"The author of this book, who regrets the necessity of mentioning himself"—to ask the reader's understanding when he describes "the Paris of his youth ... as though it still existed." This introduces a meditation on memories of past places that his contemporary readers would recognize as a self-portrait written from exile: "you have left a part of your heart, of your blood, of your soul, in those pavements." He describes another occasion when a bullet shot "pierced a brass shaving-dish suspended ... over a hairdresser's shop. This pierced shaving-dish was still to be seen in 1848, in the Rue du Contrat-Social, at the corner of the pillars of the market." As evidence of police double agents at the barricades, he writes: "The author of this book had in his hands, in 1848, the special report on this subject made to the Prefect of Police in 1832."
Patron-Minette – A quartet of bandits who assist in the Thénardiers' ambush of Valjean at Gorbeau House and the attempted robbery at the Rue Plumet. The gang consists of Montparnasse, Claquesous, Babet, and Gueulemer. Claquesous, who escaped from the carriage transporting him to prison after the Gorbeau Robbery, joins the revolution under the guise of "Le Cabuc" and is executed by Enjolras for firing on civilians.
Marius decides to go to the smaller barricade, which he finds empty. As he turns back, the man who took the fatal shot for Marius earlier calls Marius by his name. Marius discovers this man is Éponine, dressed in men's clothes. As she lies dying on his knees, she confesses that she was the one who told him to go to the barricade, hoping they would die together. She also confesses to saving his life because she wanted to die before he did.
"Victor Hugo's 150-year-old tragedy continues to excite on stage and film"
Grantaire – A drunk with little interest in revolution. Despite his pessimism, he eventually declares himself a believer in the Republic, and dies alongside Enjolras.
^ Novelist Susanne Alleyn has argued that "the phrase les misérables, which has a whole range of subtly shaded meanings in French, is much better translated into English as 'the dispossessed' or even as 'the outsiders', which can describe every major character in the novel in one way or another, than simply as 'the miserable ones' / 'the wretched ones'. No, It's Not Actually the French Revolution: Les Misérables and History.
Combeferre – A medical student who is described as representing the philosophy of the revolution.
Van Gelder, Lawrence (1 February 2007). "French Court Says Yes to Misérables Sequels". The New York Times. Retrieved 4 January 2013.
Turner, David Hancock (18 January 2013). "Les Misérables and Its Critics". Jacobin. Retrieved 14 June 2016.
Dahlia – A young grisette in Paris and member of Fantine's group of seamstress friends along with Favourite and Zéphine. She becomes romantically involved with Félix Tholomyès' friend Listolier.
Gavroche – The unloved middle child and eldest son of the Thénardiers. He lives on his own as a street urchin and sleeps inside an elephant statue outside the Bastille. He briefly takes care of his two younger brothers, unaware they are related to him. He takes part in the barricades and is killed while collecting bullets from dead National Guardsmen.
Julie Rose. 2007. Vintage Classics, 3 July 2008. A new translation of the full work, with a detailed biographical sketch of Victor Hugo's life, a chronology, and notes. ISBN 978-0-09-951113-7
Valjean arrives at Montfermeil on Christmas Eve. He finds Cosette fetching water in the woods alone and walks with her to the inn. He orders a meal and observes how the Thénardiers abuse her, while pampering their own daughters Éponine and Azelma, who mistreat Cosette for playing with their doll. Valjean leaves and returns to make Cosette a present of an expensive new doll which, after some hesitation, she happily accepts. Éponine and Azelma are envious. Madame Thénardier is furious with Valjean, while her husband makes light of Valjean's behaviour, caring only that he pay for his food and lodging.
Marius overhears Thénardier's plan and goes to Javert to report the crime. Javert gives Marius two pistols and instructs him to fire one into the air if things get dangerous. Marius returns home and waits for Javert and the police to arrive. Thénardier sends Éponine and Azelma outside to look out for the police. When Valjean returns with rent money, Thénardier, with Patron-Minette, ambushes him and he reveals his real identity to Valjean. Marius recognizes Thénardier as the man who saved his father's life at Waterloo and is caught in a dilemma.
Lesgle (also Lègle, Laigle, L'Aigle [The Eagle] or Bossuet) – The oldest member of the group. Considered notoriously unlucky, Lesgle begins balding at the age of twenty-five. It is Lesgle who introduces Marius to the Friends.
A 2018 British TV series by Andrew Davies, starring Dominic West, David Oyelowo and Lily Collins.[51]
^ "BBC News – Bon anniversaire! 25 facts about Les Mis". BBC Online. 1 October 2010. Retrieved 1 October 2010.
The Broadway League. "The official source for Broadway Information". IBDB. Retrieved 31 December 2012.
Les 5 et 6 Juin 1832. L'Evenement et Les Miserables
Fantine is unaware that they are abusing her daughter and using her as forced labor for their inn, and continues to try to meet their growing, extortionate and fictitious demands. She is later fired from her job at Jean Valjean's factory, because of the discovery of her daughter, who was born out of wedlock. Meanwhile, the Thénardiers' monetary demands continue to grow. In desperation, Fantine sells her hair and two front teeth, and she resorts to prostitution to pay the Thénardiers. Fantine is slowly dying from an unspecified disease.
^ "Les Misérables". Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English. Longman. Retrieved 16 August 2019.
Goncourt, Edmond et Jules, Journal, Vol. I, Laffont, 1989, ISBN 2-221-05527-6, April 1862, pp. 808–809
After Javert grabs Valjean, Valjean asks for three days to bring Cosette to Fantine, but Javert refuses. Fantine discovers that Cosette is not at the hospital and fretfully asks where she is. Javert orders her to be quiet, and then reveals to her Valjean's real identity. Weakened by the severity of her illness, she falls back in shock and dies. Valjean goes to Fantine, speaks to her in an inaudible whisper, kisses her hand, and then leaves with Javert. Later, Fantine's body is unceremoniously thrown into a public grave.
Fauchelevent – A failed businessman whom Valjean (as M. Madeleine) saves from being crushed under a carriage. Valjean gets him a position as gardener at a Paris convent, where Fauchelevent later provides sanctuary for Valjean and Cosette and allows Valjean to pose as his brother.
^ A. F. Davidson, Victor Hugo: His Life And Work (J. B. Lippincott, 1929), Kindle Location 4026, 4189
^ Morton, James (2004). The First Detective: The Life and Revolutionary Times of Vidocq, Criminal, Spy and Private Eye. New York: Overlook Press. ISBN 9781590208908.
Les Misérables (/leɪ ˌmɪzəˈrɑːb(əl), -blə/ lay MIZ-ə-RAHB(-əl), -⁠RAH-blə,[4] French: [le mizeʁabl]) is a French historical novel by Victor Hugo, first published in 1862, that is considered one of the greatest novels of the 19th century. Les Misérables has been popularized through numerous adaptations for film, television and the stage, including a musical.
A dandy named Bamatabois harasses Fantine in the street, and she reacts by striking him. Javert arrests Fantine. She begs to be released so that she can provide for her daughter, but Javert sentences her to six months in prison. Valjean (Mayor Madeleine) intervenes and orders Javert to release her. Javert resists but Valjean prevails. Valjean, feeling responsible because his factory turned her away, promises Fantine that he will bring Cosette to her. He takes her to a hospital.
Colonel Georges Pontmercy – Marius's father and an officer in Napoleon's army. Wounded at Waterloo, Pontmercy erroneously believes M. Thénardier saved his life. He tells Marius of this great debt. He loves Marius and although M. Gillenormand does not allow him to visit, he continually hid behind a pillar in the church on Sunday so that he could at least look at Marius from a distance. Napoleon made him a baron, but the next regime refused to recognize his barony or his status as a colonel, instead referring to him only as a commandant. The book usually calls him "The colonel".
Robb, Graham (1999). Victor Hugo: A Biography. W. W. Norton. ISBN 978-0393318999.
^ Réception des Misérables au Portugal Archived 29 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine
The Cry for Justice: An Anthology of the Literature of Social Protest
Lee Fahnestock and Norman McAfee. Signet Classics. 3 March 1987. An unabridged edition based on the Wilbour translation with its language modernized. Paperback ISBN 0-451-52526-4
In 2001, two French novels by François Cérésa [fr] that continue Hugo's story appeared: Cosette ou le temps des illusions and Marius ou le fugitif. The former has been published in an English translation. Javert appears as a hero who survived his suicide attempt and becomes religious; Thénardier returns from America; Marius is unjustly imprisoned.[52] The works were the subject of an unsuccessful lawsuit, Société Plon et autres v. Pierre Hugo et autres brought by Hugo's great-great-grandson.[53][54]
He tries to find a way to save Valjean while not betraying Thénardier. Valjean denies knowing Thénardier and tells him that they have never met. Valjean tries to escape through a window but is subdued and tied up. Thénardier orders Valjean to pay him 200,000 francs. He also orders Valjean to write a letter to Cosette to return to the apartment, and they would keep her with them until he delivers the money. After Valjean writes the letter and informs Thénardier of his address, Thénardier sends out Mme. Thénardier to get Cosette. Mme. Thénardier comes back alone, and announces the address is a fake.
Les Misérables by Victor Hugo – Project Gutenberg. 22 June 2008. Retrieved 15 October 2009 – via Project Gutenberg.
In 1828, Vidocq, already pardoned, saved one of the workers in his paper factory by lifting a heavy cart on his shoulders as Valjean does.[17] Hugo's description of Valjean rescuing a sailor on the Orion drew almost word for word on a Baron La Roncière's letter describing such an incident.[18] Hugo used Bienvenu de Miollis (1753–1843), the Bishop of Digne during the time in which Valjean encounters Myriel, as the model for Myriel.[19]
Éponine (the Jondrette girl) – The Thénardiers' elder daughter. As a child, she is pampered and spoiled by her parents, but ends up a street urchin when she reaches adolescence. She participates in her father's crimes and begging schemes to obtain money. She is blindly in love with Marius. At Marius' request, she finds Valjean and Cosette's house for him and sadly leads him there. She also prevents her father, Patron-Minette, and Brujon from robbing the house during one of Marius' visits there to see Cosette. After disguising herself as a boy, she manipulates Marius into going to the barricades, hoping that she and Marius will die there together. Wanting to die before Marius, she reaches out her hand to stop a soldier from shooting at him; she is mortally wounded as the bullet goes through her hand and her back. As she is dying, she confesses all this to Marius, and gives him a letter from Cosette. Her final request to Marius is that once she has passed, he will kiss her on the forehead. He fulfills her request not because of romantic feelings on his part, but out of pity for her hard life.
Translator identified as "A.F." Richmond, Virginia, 1863. Published by West and Johnston publishers. The Editor's Preface announces its intention of correcting errors in Wilbour's translation. It said that some passages "exclusively intended for the French readers of the book" were being omitted, as well as "[a] few scattered sentences reflecting on slavery" because "the absence of a few antislavery paragraphs will hardly be complained of by Southern readers." Because of paper shortages in wartime, the passages omitted became longer with each successive volume.[40]
Monsieur Gillenormand – Marius' grandfather. A monarchist, he disagrees sharply with Marius on political issues, and they have several arguments. He attempts to keep Marius from being influenced by his father, Colonel Georges Pontmercy. While in perpetual conflict with him over ideas, he holds his grandson in affection.
Digne's benevolent Bishop Myriel gives him shelter. At night, Valjean runs off with Myriel's silverware. When the police capture Valjean, Myriel pretends that he has given the silverware to Valjean and presses him to take two silver candlesticks as well, as if he had forgotten to take them. The police accept his explanation and leave. Myriel tells Valjean that his soul has been purchased for God, and that he should use money from the silver candlesticks to make an honest man of himself.
The story begins in 1815 in Digne, as the peasant Jean Valjean, just released from 19 years' imprisonment in the Bagne of Toulon—five for stealing bread for his starving sister and her family and fourteen more for numerous escape attempts—is turned away by innkeepers because his yellow passport marks him as a former convict. He sleeps on the street, angry and bitter.
Two little boys – The two unnamed youngest sons of the Thénardiers, whom they send to Magnon to replace her two dead sons. Living on the streets, they encounter Gavroche, who is unaware they are his siblings but treats them like they are his brothers. After Gavroche's death, they retrieve bread tossed by a bourgeois man to geese in a fountain at the Luxembourg Garden.
^ Guyon, Loïc Pierre (2002). "Un aventurier picaresque au XIXe siècle: Eugène-François Vidocq".In Glaser, Albert; Kleine-Roßbach, Sabine (eds.). Abenteurer als Helden der Literatur (in French). Springer. doi:10.1007/978-3-476-02877-8. ISBN 978-3-476-02877-8.
One of the students, Marius Pontmercy, has become alienated from his family (especially his royalist grandfather M. Gillenormand) because of his Bonapartist views. After the death of his father, Colonel Georges Pontmercy, Marius discovers a note from him instructing his son to provide help to a sergeant named Thénardier who saved his life at Waterloo—in reality Thénardier was looting corpses and only saved Pontmercy's life by accident; he had called himself a sergeant under Napoleon to avoid exposing himself as a robber.
^ Behr, Edward (1993). The Complete Book of Les Misérables. New York: Arcade. p. 29.
After Éponine's release from prison, she finds Marius at "The Field of the Lark" and sadly tells him that she found Cosette's address. She leads him to Valjean's and Cosette's house on Rue Plumet, and Marius watches the house for a few days. He and Cosette then finally meet and declare their love for one another. Thénardier, Patron-Minette and Brujon manage to escape from prison with the aid of Gavroche (a rare case of Gavroche helping his family in their criminal activities). One night, during one of Marius's visits with Cosette, the six men attempt to raid Valjean's and Cosette's house. However, Éponine, who has been sitting by the gates of the house, threatens to scream and awaken the whole neighbourhood if the thieves do not leave. Hearing this, they reluctantly retire. Meanwhile, Cosette informs Marius that she and Valjean will be leaving for England in a week's time, which greatly troubles the pair.
Petit Gervais – A travelling Savoyard boy who drops a coin. Valjean, still a man of criminal mind, places his foot on the coin and refuses to return it.
3Plot											Toggle Plot subsection																					3.1Volume I: Fantine																											3.2Volume II: Cosette																											3.3Volume III: Marius																											3.4Volume IV: The Idyll in the Rue Plumet and the Epic in the Rue St. Denis																											3.5Volume V: Jean Valjean
Sinclair, Upton (1915). The Cry for Justice: An Anthology of the Literature of Social Protest. charlesrivereditors.com Charles Rivers Editors. ISBN 978-1-247-96345-7.
La réception des Misérables en 1862 – Max Bach – PMLA, Vol. 77, No. 5 (December 1962)
Even when not turning to other subjects outside his narrative, Hugo sometimes interrupts the straightforward recitation of events, his voice and control of the story line unconstrained by time and sequence. The novel opens with a statement about the bishop of Digne in 1815 and immediately shifts: "Although these details in no way essentially concern that which we have to tell..." Only after 14 chapters does Hugo pick up the opening thread again, "In the early days of the month of October, 1815...", to introduce Jean Valjean.[14]
Cosette (formally Euphrasie, also known as "the Lark", Mademoiselle Lanoire, Ursula) – The illegitimate daughter of Fantine and Tholomyès. From approximately the age of three to the age of eight, she is beaten and forced to work as a drudge for the Thénardiers. After her mother Fantine dies, Valjean ransoms Cosette from the Thénardiers and cares for her as if she were his daughter. Nuns in a Paris convent educate her. She grows up to become very beautiful. She falls in love with Marius Pontmercy and marries him near the novel's conclusion.
Madame Magloire – Domestic servant to Bishop Myriel and his sister.
Moore, Olin H. (March 1959). "Some Translations of Les Misérables". Modern Language Notes. 74 (3): 240–246. doi:10.2307/3040282. JSTOR 3040282.
A revolutionary student club. In French, the letters "ABC" are pronounced identically to the French word abaissés, 'the abased'.
The 2000 TV miniseries, starring Gérard Depardieu and John Malkovich.[48]
Mabeuf – An elderly churchwarden, friend of Colonel Pontmercy, who after the Colonel's death befriends his son Marius and helps Marius realize his father loved him. Mabeuf loves plants and books, but sells his books and prints in order to pay for a friend's medical care. When Mabeuf finds a purse in his yard, he takes it to the police. After selling his last book, he joins the students in the insurrection. He is shot dead raising the flag atop the barricade.
Valjean and Cosette flee to Paris. Valjean rents new lodgings at Gorbeau House, where he and Cosette live happily. However, Javert discovers Valjean's lodgings there a few months later. Valjean takes Cosette and they try to escape from Javert. They soon find shelter in the Petit-Picpus convent with the help of Fauchelevent, the man whom Valjean once rescued from being crushed under a cart and who has become the convent's gardener. Valjean also becomes a gardener and Cosette becomes a student at the convent school.
Listolier – A wealthy student in Paris originally from Cahors. He is a friend of Félix Tholomyès and becomes romantically involved with Fantine's friend Dahlia.
So long as there shall exist, by reason of law and custom, a social condemnation, which, in the face of civilization, artificially creates hells on earth, and complicates a destiny that is divine with human fatality; so long as the three problems of the age—the degradation of man by poverty, the ruin of women by starvation, and the dwarfing of childhood by physical and spiritual night—are not solved; so long as, in certain regions, social asphyxia shall be possible; in other words, and from a yet more extended point of view, so long as ignorance and misery remain on earth, books like this cannot be useless.
^ Les Misérables in Concert: The 25th Anniversary (2010) at IMDb
The 1935 film directed by Richard Boleslawski, starring Fredric March and Charles Laughton, nominated for Best Picture, Best Film Editing, Best Assistant Director at 8th Academy Awards.
Javert comes to see Valjean again. Javert admits that after being forced to free Fantine, he reported him as Valjean to the French authorities. He tells Valjean he realizes he was wrong, because the authorities have identified someone else as the real Jean Valjean, have him in custody, and plan to try him the next day. Valjean is torn, but decides to reveal himself to save the innocent man, whose real name is Champmathieu. He travels to attend the trial and there reveals his true identity. Valjean returns to Montreuil to see Fantine, followed by Javert, who confronts him in her hospital room.
"Personalities". The New York Times. 10 April 1860. Retrieved 3 January 2013.
Mademoiselle Gillenormand – Daughter of M. Gillenormand, with whom she lives. Her late half-sister (M. Gillenormand's daughter from another marriage), was Marius' mother.
The 1982 film adaptation, directed by Robert Hossein, starring Lino Ventura and Michel Bouquet.
Years earlier in Paris, a grisette named Fantine was very much in love with Félix Tholomyès. His friends, Listolier, Fameuil, and Blachevelle were also paired with Fantine's friends Dahlia, Zéphine, and Favourite. The men abandon the women, treating their relationships as youthful amusements. Fantine must draw on her own resources to care for her and Tholomyès' daughter, Cosette. When Fantine arrives at Montfermeil, she leaves Cosette in the care of the Thénardiers, a corrupt innkeeper and his selfish, cruel wife.
Valjean broods over Myriel's words. When opportunity presents itself, purely out of habit, he steals a 40-sous coin from 12-year-old Petit Gervais and chases the boy away. He quickly repents and searches the city in panic for Gervais. At the same time, his theft is reported to the authorities. Valjean hides as they search for him, because if apprehended he will be returned to the galleys for life as a repeat offender.
Joly – A medical student who has unusual theories about health. He is a hypochondriac and is described as the happiest of the Friends.
Blachevelle – A wealthy student in Paris originally from Montauban. He is a friend of Félix Tholomyès and becomes romantically involved with Fantine's friend Favourite.
The following day, the students revolt and erect barricades in the narrow streets of Paris. Gavroche spots Javert and informs Enjolras that Javert is a spy. When Enjolras confronts him about this, he admits his identity and his orders to spy on the students. Enjolras and the other students tie him up to a pole in the Corinth restaurant. Later that evening, Marius goes back to Valjean's and Cosette's house on Rue Plumet, but finds the house no longer occupied. He then hears a voice telling him that his friends are waiting for him at the barricade. Distraught to find Cosette gone, he heeds the voice and goes.
Marguerite Yourcenar. "Réception des Misérables en Grèce" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 July 2011. Retrieved 16 September 2007.
The novel contains various subplots, but the main thread is the story of ex-convict Jean Valjean, who becomes a force for good in the world but cannot escape his criminal past. The novel is divided into five volumes, each volume divided into several books, and subdivided into chapters, for a total of 48 books and 365 chapters. Each chapter is relatively short, commonly no longer than a few pages.
Grantaire – Grantaire (Also known as "R") was a student revolutionary with little interest in the cause. He reveres Enjolras, and his admiration is the main reason that Grantaire spends time with Les Amis de l'ABC (Friends of the ABC), despite Enjolras's occasional scorn for him. Grantaire is often drunk and is unconscious for the majority of the June Rebellion. He and Enjolras are executed by the National Guards after the barricade falls.
3.4Volume IV: The Idyll in the Rue Plumet and the Epic in the Rue St. Denis
Toussaint – Valjean and Cosette's servant in Paris. She has a slight stutter.
Hyslop, Lois Bee (October 1976). "Baudelaire on Les Misérables". The French Review. 41 (1): 23–29.
Les Misérables in Concert: The 25th Anniversary (2010) at IMDb
Since its original publication, Les Misérables has been the subject of a large number of adaptations in numerous types of media, such as books, films, musicals, plays and games.
Éponine, now ragged and emaciated, visits Marius at his apartment to beg for money. To impress him, she tries to prove her literacy by reading aloud from a book and by writing "The Cops Are Here" on a sheet of paper. Marius pities her and gives her some money. After Éponine leaves, Marius observes the "Jondrettes" in their apartment through a crack in the wall. Éponine comes in and announces that a philanthropist and his daughter are arriving to visit them. In order to look poorer, Thénardier puts out the fire and breaks a chair. He also orders Azelma to punch out a window pane, which she does, resulting in cutting her hand (as Thénardier had hoped).
Alexander Welsh, "Opening and Closing Les Misérables," in Harold Bloom, ed., Modern Critical Views: Victor Hugo (Chelsea House, 1988), 151–152
Fameuil – A wealthy student in Paris originally from Limoges. He is a friend of Félix Tholomyès and becomes romantically involved with Fantine's friend Zéphine.
The 1978 television film adaptation, starring Richard Jordan and Anthony Perkins.
The next day, Valjean is sitting in the Champ de Mars. He is feeling troubled about seeing Thénardier in the neighbourhood several times. Unexpectedly, a note lands in his lap, which says "Move Out." He sees a figure running away in the dim light. He goes back to his house, tells Cosette they will be staying at their other house on Rue de l'Homme-Armé, and reconfirms to her that they will be moving to England. Marius tries to get permission from M. Gillenormand to marry Cosette. His grandfather seems stern and angry, but has been longing for Marius's return. When tempers flare, he refuses his assent to the marriage, telling Marius to make Cosette his mistress instead. Insulted, Marius leaves.
Champmathieu – A vagabond who is misidentified as Valjean after being caught stealing apples.
^ Brombert 1988, pp. 198–199; Vol. 2, Book 1, Chapter 1.
"Letter of G. Flaubert to Madame Roger des Genettes – July 1862". Archived from the original on 27 November 2006.
^ Carter, Alice (24 December 2012). "Victor Hugo's 150-year-old tragedy continues to excite on stage and film". Triblive. Retrieved 29 June 2020.
Brombert, Victor (1988). "Les Misérables: Salvation from Below".In Harold Bloom (ed.). Modern Critical Views: Victor Hugo. New York: Chelsea House. p. 195.
Marius Pontmercy – A young law student loosely associated with the Friends of the ABC. He shares the political principles of his father and has a tempestuous relationship with his royalist grandfather, Monsieur Gillenormand. He falls in love with Cosette and fights on the barricades when he believes Valjean has taken her to London. After he and Cosette marry, he recognizes Thénardier as a swindler and pays him to leave France.
Bamatabois – An idler who harasses Fantine. Later a juror at Champmathieu's trial.
Brujon – A robber and criminal. He participates in crimes with M. Thénardier and the Patron-Minette gang (such as the Gorbeau Robbery and the attempted robbery at the Rue Plumet). The author describes Brujon as being "a sprightly young fellow, very cunning and very adroit, with a flurried and plaintive appearance."
Félix Tholomyès – Fantine's lover and Cosette's biological father. A wealthy, self-centered student in Paris originally from Toulouse, he eventually abandons Fantine when their daughter is two years old.
French text of Les Misérables, scroll down to see the links to the five volumes
Javert – A fanatic police inspector in pursuit to recapture Valjean. Born in the prisons to a convict father and a fortune teller mother, he renounces both of them and starts working as a guard in the prison, including one stint as the overseer for the chain gang of which Valjean is part (and here witnesses firsthand Valjean's enormous strength and just what he looks like). Eventually he joins the police force in Montreuil-sur-Mer. He arrests Fantine and comes into conflict with Valjean/Madeleine, who orders him to release Fantine. Valjean dismisses Javert in front of his squad and Javert, seeking revenge, reports to the Police Inspector that he has discovered Jean Valjean. He is told that he must be incorrect, as a man mistakenly believed to be Jean Valjean was just arrested. He requests of M. Madeleine that he be dismissed in disgrace, for he cannot be less harsh on himself than on others. When the real Jean Valjean turns himself in, Javert is promoted to the Paris police force where he arrests Valjean and sends him back to prison. After Valjean escapes again, Javert attempts one more arrest in vain. He then almost recaptures Valjean at Gorbeau house when he arrests the Thénardiers and Patron-Minette. Later, while working undercover behind the barricade, his identity is discovered. Valjean pretends to execute Javert, but releases him. When Javert next encounters Valjean emerging from the sewers, he allows him to make a brief visit home and then walks off instead of arresting him. Javert cannot reconcile his devotion to the law with his recognition that the lawful course is immoral. After composing a letter to the prefect of police outlining the squalid conditions that occur in prisons and the abuses that prisoners are subjected to, he takes his own life by jumping into the Seine.
Enjolras – The leader of Les Amis de l'ABC (Friends of the ABC) in the Paris uprising. He is passionately committed to republican principles and the idea of progress. He and Grantaire are executed by the National Guards after the barricade falls.
^ a b c Moore, Olin H. (March 1959). "Some Translations of Les Misérables". Modern Language Notes. 74 (3): 240–246. doi:10.2307/3040282. JSTOR 3040282.
Riding, Alan (29 May 2001). "Victor Hugo Can't Rest in Peace, As a Sequel Makes Trouble". The New York Times. Retrieved 4 January 2013.
Robb, Graham (1997). Victor Hugo: A Biography. New York: W. W. Norton. ISBN 9780393045789.
One critic has called this "the spiritual gateway" to the novel, as its chance encounter of Thénardier and Colonel Pontmercy foreshadows so many of the novel's encounters "blending chance and necessity", a "confrontation of heroism and villainy".[13]
"Letter of G. Flaubert to Madame Roger des Genettes – July 1862"
Le Bagne de Toulon (1748–1873), Académie du Var, Autres Temps Editions (2010), ISBN 978-2-84521-394-4
It is during this time that Valjean manages to free himself. Thénardier decides to kill Valjean. While he and Patron-Minette are about to do so, Marius remembers the scrap of paper that Éponine wrote on earlier. He throws it into the Thénardiers' apartment through the wall crack. Thénardier reads it and thinks Éponine threw it inside. He, Mme. Thénardier and Patron-Minette try to escape, only to be stopped by Javert.
Bahorel – A dandy and an idler from a peasant background, who is known well around the student cafés of Paris.
Cochepaille – Another lifer from Toulon. He used to be a shepherd from the Pyrenees who became a smuggler. He is described as stupid and has a tattoo on his arm, 1 Mars 1815.
"Les Mis Study Guide – About the Novel" (PDF). lesmis.com. 15 August 2014.
"Victor Hugo Can't Rest in Peace, As a Sequel Makes Trouble"
I don't know whether it will be read by everyone, but it is meant for everyone. It addresses England as well as Spain, Italy as well as France, Germany as well as Ireland, the republics that harbour slaves as well as empires that have serfs. Social problems go beyond frontiers. Humankind's wounds, those huge sores that litter the world, do not stop at the blue and red lines drawn on maps. Wherever men go in ignorance or despair, wherever women sell themselves for bread, wherever children lack a book to learn from or a warm hearth, Les Misérables knocks at the door and says: "open up, I am here for you".
^ Le Bagne de Toulon (1748–1873), Académie du Var, Autres Temps Editions (2010), ISBN 978-2-84521-394-4
The 2012 film of the musical, starring Hugh Jackman, Russell Crowe, Anne Hathaway and Amanda Seyfried.[50]
Otterson, Joe (9 January 2018). "David Oyelowo, Dominic West, Lily Collins to Star in BBC's Les Misérables Miniseries". Variety.
Feuilly – An orphaned fan maker and passionate Polonophile who taught himself to read and write. He is the only member of the Friends who is not a student.
Norman Denny. Folio Press, 1976. A modern British translation later re-published in paperback by Penguin Books, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 0-14-044430-0. The translator explains in an introduction that he has placed two of the novel's longer digressive passages into appendices and made some minor abridgements in the text.
Matt, Rawle (17 December 2019). The Grace of Les Miserables Youth Study Book. ISBN 9781501887222.
^ Matt, Rawle (17 December 2019). The Grace of Les Miserables Youth Study Book. ISBN 9781501887222.
Volume IV: The Idyll in the Rue Plumet and the Epic in the Rue St. Denis
^ Les Misérables by Victor Hugo – Project Gutenberg. 22 June 2008. Retrieved 15 October 2009 – via Project Gutenberg.
The appearance of the novel was a highly anticipated event as Victor Hugo was considered one of France's foremost poets in the middle of the nineteenth century. The New York Times announced its forthcoming publication as early as April 1860.[29] Hugo forbade his publishers from summarizing his story and refused to authorize the publication of excerpts in advance of publication. He instructed them to build on his earlier success and suggested this approach: "What Victor H. did for the Gothic world in Notre-Dame of Paris [The Hunchback of Notre-Dame], he accomplishes for the modern world in Les Misérables".[30] A massive advertising campaign[31] preceded the release of the first two volumes of Les Misérables in Brussels on 30 or 31 March and in Paris on 3 April 1862.[32] The remaining volumes appeared on 15 May 1862.
Hugo had used the departure of prisoners from the Bagne of Toulon in one of his early stories, Le Dernier Jour d'un Condamné. He went to Toulon to visit the Bagne in 1839 and took extensive notes, though he did not start writing the book until 1845. On one of the pages of his notes about the prison, he wrote in large block letters a possible name for his hero: "JEAN TRÉJEAN". When the book was finally written, Tréjean became Valjean.[20]
Novelist Susanne Alleyn has argued that "the phrase les misérables, which has a whole range of subtly shaded meanings in French, is much better translated into English as 'the dispossessed' or even as 'the outsiders', which can describe every major character in the novel in one way or another, than simply as 'the miserable ones' / 'the wretched ones'. No, It's Not Actually the French Revolution: Les Misérables and History.
Valjean arrives at the barricade and immediately saves a man's life. He is still not certain if he wants to protect Marius or kill him. Marius recognizes Valjean at first sight. Enjolras announces that they are almost out of cartridges. When Gavroche goes outside the barricade to collect more ammunition from the dead National Guardsmen, he is shot dead.
Christine Donougher. Penguin Classics, 7 November 2013. A new translation of the full work, with a detailed biographical sketch of Victor Hugo's life, a chronology, and notes. ISBN 978-0141393599
^ "Les Misérables, Victor Hugo, first edition, 1862". ABE Books. Retrieved 21 January 2013.
^ Brombert, Victor (1988). "Les Misérables: Salvation from Below".In Harold Bloom (ed.). Modern Critical Views: Victor Hugo. New York: Chelsea House. p. 195.
Sister Simplice – A famously truthful nun who cares for Fantine on her sickbed and lies to Javert to protect Valjean.
^ "Letter of G. Flaubert to Madame Roger des Genettes – July 1862". Archived from the original on 27 November 2006.
At the Luxembourg Garden, Marius falls in love with the now grown and beautiful Cosette. The Thénardiers have also moved to Paris and now live in poverty after losing their inn. They live under the surname "Jondrette" at Gorbeau House (coincidentally, the same building Valjean and Cosette briefly lived in after leaving the Thénardiers' inn). Marius lives there as well, next door to the Thénardiers.
He arrests all the Thénardiers and Patron-Minette (except Claquesous, who escapes during his transportation to prison, and Montparnasse, who stops to run off with Éponine instead of joining in on the robbery). Valjean manages to escape the scene before Javert sees him.
^ Marguerite Yourcenar. "Réception des Misérables en Grèce" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 July 2011. Retrieved 16 September 2007.
The 1958 film adaptation directed by Jean-Paul Le Chanois, with an international cast starring Jean Gabin, Bernard Blier, and Bourvil.[43] Called "the most memorable film version", it was filmed in East Germany and was overtly political.[44]
Six years pass and Valjean, using the alias Monsieur Madeleine, has become a wealthy factory owner and is appointed mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer. Walking down the street, he sees a man named Fauchelevent pinned under the wheels of a cart. When no one volunteers to lift the cart, even for pay, he decides to rescue Fauchelevent himself. He crawls underneath the cart, manages to lift it, and frees him. The town's police inspector, Inspector Javert, who was an adjutant guard at the Bagne of Toulon during Valjean's incarceration, becomes suspicious of the mayor after witnessing this remarkable feat of strength. He has known only one other man, a convict named Jean Valjean, who could accomplish it.
Fantine – A beautiful Parisian grisette abandoned with a small child by her lover Félix Tholomyès. Fantine leaves her daughter Cosette in the care of the Thénardiers, innkeepers in the village of Montfermeil. Mme. Thénardier spoils her own daughters and abuses Cosette. Fantine finds work at Monsieur Madeleine's factory. Illiterate, she has others write letters to the Thénardiers on her behalf. A female supervisor discovers that she is an unwed mother and dismisses her. To meet the Thénardiers' repeated demands for money, she sells her hair and two front teeth, and turns to prostitution. She becomes ill. Valjean learns of her plight when Javert arrests her for attacking a man who called her insulting names and threw snow down her back, and sends her to a hospital. As Javert confronts Valjean in her hospital room, because her illness has made her so weak, she dies of shock after Javert reveals that Valjean is a convict and hasn't brought her daughter Cosette to her (after the doctor encouraged that incorrect belief that Jean Valjean's recent absence was because he was bringing her daughter to her).
During the 1832 revolt, Hugo walked the streets of Paris, saw the barricades blocking his way at points, and had to take shelter from gunfire.[25]: 173–174  He participated more directly in the 1848 Paris insurrection, helping to smash barricades and suppress both the popular revolt and its monarchist allies.[25]: 273–276
In the English-speaking world, the novel is usually referred to by its original French title. However, several alternatives have been used, including The Miserables, The Wretched, The Miserable Ones, The Poor Ones, The Wretched Poor, The Victims, and The Dispossessed.[5] Beginning in 1815 and culminating in the 1832 June Rebellion in Paris, the novel follows the lives and interactions of several characters, particularly the struggles of ex-convict Jean Valjean and his experience of redemption.[6]
Lascelles Wraxall. London: Hurst and Blackett, October 1862. The first British translation.[40]
"BBC News – Bon anniversaire! 25 facts about Les Mis". BBC Online. 1 October 2010. Retrieved 1 October 2010.
The 1952 film adaptation directed by Lewis Milestone, starring Michael Rennie and Robert Newton.
Valjean volunteers to execute Javert himself, and Enjolras grants permission. Valjean takes Javert out of sight, and then shoots into the air while letting him go. Marius mistakenly believes that Valjean has killed Javert. As the barricade falls, Valjean carries off the injured and unconscious Marius. All the other students are killed. Valjean escapes through the sewers, carrying Marius's body. He evades a police patrol, and reaches an exit gate but finds it locked. Thénardier emerges from the darkness. Valjean recognizes Thénardier, but Thénardier does not recognize Valjean. Thinking Valjean a murderer lugging his victim's corpse, Thénardier offers to open the gate for money. As he searches Valjean and Marius's pockets, he surreptitiously tears off a piece of Marius's coat so he can later find out his identity. Thénardier takes the thirty francs he finds, opens the gate, and allows Valjean to leave, expecting Valjean's emergence from the sewer will distract the police who have been pursuing him.
Finally, after watching his brother and friends get swallowed, A. Jay is left, who she quickly grabs. She holds him by the collar of his shirt, which is pinched between her fingers, and gives him one final smile. After that she tosses him into the air and catches the flailing A. Jay in her mouth and devours him. Having eaten all the men, she happily strolls off and the video ends.[5]
Her next target is Jeremy, who is hiding behind a speaker. She creeps up behind him and positions herself right above the guitarist. Jeremy throws his hands up as if begging her to stop. Pamela inhales and slurps him into her mouth. She then pauses for a moment, rolling something around on her tongue. She then spits out one of his signature white-flame shoes, which had been left behind after she swallowed him.
This is followed by them performing on her head, her knee, returning to play on her butt, and walking across her breasts. There are also several shots interspersed of different bandmembers on her raised knee as she reclines back, watching them intently. She begins swaying to the music as the band performs around her. Shortly afterwards she starts eyeing them as she holds them in her hand.
Lit's vocalist, A. Jay Popoff, said that " 'Miserable' is basically about feeling like you need something really bad, and when you have it, it makes you feel like shit. Some people feel it's about a person, but it's not necessarily. It can be about addiction".[4]
^ "Lit drummer Allen Shellengberger has brain cancer". Musicradar. 23 May 2008.
The band goes back to performing in front of her rather than on her before it cuts to her lying down and the band on her face.
"Lit Chart History (Bubbling Under Hot 100)". Billboard.Retrieved October 27, 2021.
"Miserable" is a song by the American rock band Lit. It is the third single released in autumn 1999 from Lit's second album, A Place in the Sun.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Billboard". 15 January 2000.
^ "Woodstock '99 Report #16: Lit Get Down, Buckcherry Get 'Lit Up'". MTV.
The song had an accompanying music video, which was filmed around February 2000 in Los Angeles and directed by Evan Bernard and produced by Keeley Gould, in which the band is portrayed performing the song on and around a huge Pamela Anderson, who wears a white bikini and platform shoes.The video begins by panning over Anderson's body and then reveals her to be enormous, and that the band is performing on her butt as she lies on her belly. The band is later seen hiking up the incline of her hip while she playfully waves at them.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Billboard". 15 January 2000.
While they are performing on her face Kevin Baldes is standing on her lips. She opens her mouth, causing him to fall inside and she intentionally swallows him. The other band members panic and run from her as she chases after them.
"Lit drummer Allen Shellengberger has brain cancer". Musicradar. 23 May 2008.
"Woodstock '99 Report #16: Lit Get Down, Buckcherry Get 'Lit Up'". MTV.
^ Pesselnick, Jill (April 1, 2000). "The Modern Age". Billboard. Vol. 112, no. 14. Nielsen Business Media, Inc. p. 101. ISSN 0006-2510.
Pesselnick, Jill (April 1, 2000). "The Modern Age". Billboard. Vol. 112, no. 14. Nielsen Business Media, Inc. p. 101. ISSN 0006-2510.
With her foot casually poised in the air, the band stands on the bottom of her platform heels. Pamela, meanwhile glances back and giggles at them. She casually yet playfully shakes her platform heel, and A. Jay and the others struggle to keep from falling off. When they manage to keep their footing, she looks away and rolls her eyes.
This page was last edited on 19 May 2022, at 10:55 (UTC).
"Woodstock '99 Report #16: Lit Get Down, Buckcherry Get 'Lit Up'"
^ "Lit Chart History (Mainstream Rock)". Billboard.Retrieved October 27, 2021.
As the members of Lit scatter, Pamela Anderson singles out Allen and easily catches up to him, despite running in high heels. She scoops him up and dangles him in front of her face. Allen puts his hands out in front of him and attempts to plead for his life. However Pamela simply regards him coldly. Unmoved, she pops him into her mouth and eats him alive.
^ "Lit Chart History (Alternative Airplay)". Billboard.Retrieved October 27, 2021.
^ "Lit Chart History (Bubbling Under Hot 100)". Billboard.Retrieved October 27, 2021.
^ Charlton, Katherine. Rock Music Styles: A History. McGraw Hill, 2003. P. 346–47. ISBN 0-07-249555-3.
^ "Muse Bask in First Grammy Win, Make Plans for Kid-Friendly Album". MTV. Archived from the original on December 25, 2013. Retrieved October 5, 2018.
Marin, Rick. "Grunge: A Success Story". The New York Times. November 15, 1992.
McIntyre, Hugh (August 29, 2016). "Shawn Mendes Nabs Another Top 10 Hit While The Chainsmokers Remain At No. 1". Forbes. Archived from the original on August 30, 2016. Retrieved September 1, 2016.
^ Pareles, Jon (February 28, 1993). "Great Riffs. Big Bucks. New Hopes?". NYTimes.com. Archived from the original on May 10, 2013. Retrieved July 19, 2009.
Kendall, Dave. "MTV Week in Rock - Lollapalooza" Archived August 31, 2020, at the Wayback Machine. youtube. July 1991. November 2, 2019.
^ a b c Marin, Rick. "Grunge: A Success Story". The New York Times. November 15, 1992.
DiCrescenzo, Brent (July 28, 2011). "Dave Grohl of Foo Fighters Extended interview Lollapalooza 2011". Time Out. Archived from the original on December 20, 2019. Retrieved July 3, 2018.
Mitchell, Tony (2002). Global Noise: Rap and Hip Hop Outside the USA. Wesleyan University Press. p. 105. ISBN 978-0-8195-6502-0. Retrieved November 27, 2012.
"Alternative rock radio: The sad, unwarranted decline of FM Rock Stations"
^ Thompson, Dave (December 31, 2018). Alternative Rock. Hal Leonard Corporation. ISBN 9780879306076 – via Google Books.
Hiatt, Brian; Bonin, Lian; Volby, Karen (July 9, 2004). "The Return of (Good) Alt-Rock". EW.com. Archived from the original on October 14, 2007. Retrieved August 28, 2007.
^ DeRogatis, Jim. Milk It!: Collected Musings on the Alternative Music Explosion of the 90's. Cambridge: Da Capo, 2003. p. 18. ISBN 0-306-81271-1.
^ Farber, Jim. "VMAs 2013: Rock is dead, One Direction and Justin Timberlake's brands of Top 40 are king at MTV Awards". NY Daily News. Archived from the original on January 7, 2014. Retrieved December 29, 2013.
"Alternative Pop | Definition of Alternative Pop by Merriam-Webster". Archived from the original on May 22, 2021. Retrieved May 22, 2021.
Charlton, Katherine. Rock Music Styles: A History. McGraw Hill, 2003. P. 346–47. ISBN 0-07-249555-3.
A. Kumi (January 30, 2006), "Arctic Monkeys make chart history", The Guardian, archived from the original on August 23, 2011
^ Mitchell, Tony (2002). Global Noise: Rap and Hip Hop Outside the USA. Wesleyan University Press. p. 105. ISBN 978-0-8195-6502-0. Retrieved November 27, 2012.
"Shawn Mendes Nabs Another Top 10 Hit While The Chainsmokers Remain At No. 1"
"Songs That Defined the Decade: Lana Del Rey's 'Born to Die'"
^ Goddard, Simon (2010). Mozipedia: The Encyclopedia of Morrissey and the Smiths [Sioux, Siouxsie entry]. Ebury Press. p. 393. ISBN 978-0452296671.
^ Payne, Chris (March 1, 2018). "Twenty One Pilots' 'Blurryface' Becomes First Album With Every Song RIAA-Certified Gold". Billboard. Archived from the original on November 20, 2020. Retrieved March 1, 2018.
At the same time, critics asserted that advertising was co-opting elements of grunge and turning it into a fad. Entertainment Weekly commented in a 1993 article, "There hasn't been this kind of exploitation of a subculture since the media discovered hippies in the '60s."[81] The New York Times compared the "grunging of America" to the mass-marketing of punk rock, disco, and hip hop in previous years. As a result of the genre's popularity, a backlash against grunge developed in Seattle.[53] Nirvana's follow-up album In Utero (1993) was an intentionally abrasive album that Nirvana bassist Krist Novoselic described as a "wild aggressive sound, a true alternative record."[82] Nevertheless, upon its release in September 1993 In Utero topped the Billboard charts.[83] Pearl Jam also continued to perform well commercially with its second album, Vs. (1993), which topped the Billboard charts by selling a record 950,378 copies in its first week of release.[84]
Pareles, Jon. "A New Kind of Rock" Archived December 22, 2019, at the Wayback Machine. The New York Times. March 5, 1989. Retrieved July 19, 2009.
Reynolds, Simon (March 1994). "Bark Psychosis: Hex". Mojo. Archived from the original on September 16, 2012. Retrieved July 8, 2008.
^ Hajari, Nisid (November 19, 1993). "Pearl's Jam". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 14, 2007. Retrieved August 29, 2007.
Rosen, Craig. "Some See 'New Openness' Following Nirvana Success". Billboard. January 25, 1992.
^ Olsen, Eric (April 9, 2004). "10 years later, Cobain lives on in his music". Today.com.com. Archived from the original on March 23, 2017. Retrieved July 25, 2007.
^ Shouneyia, Alexa. "Songs That Defined the Decade: Lana Del Rey's 'Born to Die'". Billboard. Retrieved October 23, 2022.
A. Goetchius, Career Building Through Social Networking (The Rosen Publishing Group, 2007), ISBN 1-4042-1943-9, pp. 21–2.
^ Hann, Michael (October 13, 2004). "Fey City Rollers". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on June 5, 2011. Retrieved July 19, 2009.
^ Dolan, Emily (2010). "'...This little ukulele tells the truth':indie pop and kitsch authenticity". Popular Music. 29/3 (3): 457–469. doi:10.1017/s0261143010000437. S2CID 194113672.
^ "Third Wave Ska Revival Music Genre Overview". AllMusic. Archived from the original on October 13, 2018. Retrieved December 31, 2018.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Neo-Psychedelia Music Genre Overview". AllMusic. Archived from the original on August 29, 2020. Retrieved December 31, 2018.
Leland, John (May 1987). "Campers". Spin. Vol. 3, no. 2. p. 24. ISSN 0886-3032.
^ a b Beaumont, Mark (June 26, 2022). "Billie Eilish review, Glastonbury 2022: History-making set is 90 minutes of noir-pop catharsis". The Independent. Retrieved October 24, 2022.
^ Trust, Gary (October 11, 2018). "Rewinding the Charts: In 1988, Alternative Songs Launched, With Siouxsie & the Banshees' 'Peek-a-Boo' as the First No. 1". Billboard. Archived from the original on August 19, 2020. Retrieved June 16, 2020.
^ Kendall, Dave. "MTV Week in Rock - Lollapalooza" Archived August 31, 2020, at the Wayback Machine. youtube. July 1991. November 2, 2019.
^ Leland, John (May 1987). "Campers". Spin. Vol. 3, no. 2. p. 24. ISSN 0886-3032.
^ J. Hoard. "My Chemical Romance". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on March 21, 2011..
"Twenty One Pilots Match A Charting Feat That Only The Beatles And Elvis Have Managed"
American indie record labels SST Records, Twin/Tone Records, Touch and Go Records, and Dischord Records presided over the shift from the hardcore punk that then dominated the American underground scene to the more diverse styles of alternative rock that were emerging.[46] Minneapolis bands Hüsker Dü and the Replacements were indicative of this shift. Both started out as punk rock bands, but soon diversified their sounds and became more melodic.[29] Michael Azerrad asserted that Hüsker Dü was the key link between hardcore punk and the more melodic, diverse music of college rock that emerged. Azerrad wrote, "Hüsker Dü played a huge role in convincing the underground that melody and punk rock weren't antithetical."[47] The band also set an example by being the first group from the American indie scene to sign to a major record label, which helped establish college rock as "a viable commercial enterprise".[48] By focusing on heartfelt songwriting and wordplay instead of political concerns, the Replacements upended a number of underground scene conventions; Azerrad noted that "along with R.E.M., they were one of the few underground bands that mainstream people liked."[49]
J. DeRogatis (October 3, 2003). "True Confessional?". Chicago Sun Times. Archived from the original on May 1, 2011..
Stanley, Bob. "Will the indie chart rise again?" Archived December 23, 2019, at the Wayback Machine. The Guardian. July 31, 2009. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
In the past, popular music tastes were dictated by music executives within large entertainment corporations. Record companies signed contracts with those entertainers who were thought to become the most popular, and therefore who could generate the most sales. These bands were able to record their songs in expensive studios, and their works then offered for sale through record store chains that were owned by the entertainment corporations, along with eventually selling the merchandise into big box retailers. Record companies worked with radio and television companies to get the most exposure for their artists. The people making the decisions were business people dealing with music as a product, and those bands who were not making the expected sales figures were then excluded from this system.[8]
Grubbs, Eric (November 17, 2016). "Josh Venable on the Edge's Demise: 'Today Cheerleaders and Indie Kids Love Band of Horses'". dallasobserver.com. Dallas Observer, LP. Archived from the original on April 7, 2018. Retrieved April 7, 2018.
Alternative rock (also known as alternative music, alt-rock, or simply alternative) is a category of rock music that emerged from the independent music underground of the 1970s and became widely popular in the 1990s. "Alternative" refers to the genre's distinction from mainstream or commercial rock or pop music. The term's original meaning was broader, referring to musicians influenced by the musical style or independent, DIY ethos of late-1970s punk rock.[5]
Whiteley, Sheila; Bennett, Andy; Hawkins, Stan (2004). Music, Space And Place: Popular Music And Cultural Identity. Ashgate Publishing, Ltd. p. 84. ISBN 978-0-7546-5574-9. Archived from the original on May 13, 2016. Retrieved November 27, 2012.
"POP/JAZZ; Rock by Any Other Name Is 'Alternative' ". The New York Times. July 15, 1988.
In the late 1990s, the definition again became more specific.[5] In 1997, Neil Strauss of The New York Times defined alternative rock as "hard-edged rock distinguished by brittle, '70s-inspired guitar riffing and singers agonizing over their problems until they take on epic proportions."[20]
Thompson, Dave (December 31, 2018). Alternative Rock. Hal Leonard Corporation. ISBN 9780879306076 – via Google Books.
Grohl, Dave. "Twitter / foofighters: Hey @NYDailyNews, speak for..." Twitter. Archived from the original on January 10, 2014. Retrieved December 29, 2013.
"Are We Not New Wave Modern Pop at the Turn of the 1980s" by Theo Cateforis University of Michigan Press 2011 p. 38 ISBN 9780472115556
Considine, J.D. "The Decade of Living Dangerously". Guitar World. March 1999
^ Erlewine, Stephen Thomas. "PJ Harvey Biography". Billboard.com. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
Carew, Anthony. "Alternative Music 101 – Is There a Difference Between 'Alternative' and 'Indie'?" Archived May 11, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. About.com. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
Fonarow, Wendy Archived April 20, 2017, at the Wayback Machine (July 28, 2011). "Ask the indie professor: why do Americans think they invented indie? For years, Americans never used the term 'indie', preferring to label the likes of Bush 'alternative'. But things changed" Archived March 12, 2017, at the Wayback Machine. The Guardian.
"The Top 100 Alternative Albums of the 1960s". Spin. March 28, 2013. Archived from the original on February 1, 2020. Retrieved October 11, 2018.
Other forms of alternative rock developed in the UK during the 1980s. the Jesus and Mary Chain's sound combined the Velvet Underground's "melancholy noise" with Beach Boys pop melodies and Phil Spector's "Wall of Sound" production,[64][65] while New Order emerged from the demise of post-punk band Joy Division and experimented with disco and dance music.[43] The Mary Chain, along with Dinosaur Jr., C86 and the dream pop of Cocteau Twins, were the formative influences for the shoegazing movement of the late 1980s. Named for the band members' tendency to stare at their feet and guitar effects pedals[66] onstage rather than interact with the audience, shoegazing acts like My Bloody Valentine and Slowdive created an overwhelmingly loud "wash of sound" that obscured vocals and melodies with long, droning riffs, distortion, and feedback.[67] Shoegazing bands dominated the British music press at the end of the decade along with the Madchester scene. Performing for the most part in the Haçienda, a nightclub in Manchester owned by New Order and Factory Records, Madchester bands such as Happy Mondays and the Stone Roses mixed acid house dance rhythms with melodic guitar pop.[68]
^ a b c d e "Post-Rock". AllMusic. Retrieved July 28, 2009.
Are We Not New Wave Modern Pop at the Turn of the 1980s
With the decline of the Madchester scene and the unglamorousness of shoegazing, the tide of grunge from America dominated the British alternative scene and music press in the early 1990s.[43] As a reaction, a flurry of British bands emerged that wished to "get rid of grunge" and "declare war on America", taking the public and native music press by storm.[85] Dubbed "Britpop" by the media, this movement represented by Pulp, Blur, Suede, and Oasis was the British equivalent of the grunge explosion, in that the artists propelled alternative rock to the top of the charts in their home country.[43] Britpop bands were influenced by and displayed reverence for British guitar music of the past, particularly movements and genres such as the British Invasion, glam rock, and punk rock.[86] In 1995 the Britpop phenomenon culminated in a rivalry between its two chief groups, Oasis and Blur, symbolized by their release of competing singles on the same day. Blur won "The Battle of Britpop", but Oasis soon eclipsed the other band in popularity with their second album, (What's the Story) Morning Glory? (1995),[87] which went on to become the third best-selling album in the UK's history.[88]
Defining music as alternative is often difficult because of two conflicting applications of the word. Alternative can describe music that challenges the status quo and that is "fiercely iconoclastic, anticommercial, and antimainstream", and the term is also used in the music industry to denote "the choices available to consumers via record stores, radio, cable television, and the Internet."[24] However alternative music has paradoxically become just as commercial and marketable as the mainstream rock, with record companies using the term "alternative" to market music to an audience that mainstream rock does not reach.[25] Using a broad definition of the genre, Dave Thompson in his book Alternative Rock cites the formation of the Sex Pistols as well as the release of the albums Horses by Patti Smith and Metal Machine Music by Lou Reed as three key events that gave birth to alternative rock.[26] Until the early 2000s, when indie rock became the most common term in the US to describe modern pop and rock, the terms "indie rock" and "alternative rock" were often used interchangeably;[27] whilst there are aspects which both genres have in common, "indie rock" was regarded as a British-based term, unlike the more American "alternative rock".[28]
^ a b c "Emo Music Genre Overview". AllMusic. Archived from the original on May 14, 2020. Retrieved December 31, 2018.
Stephen Thomas Erlewine. "British Alternative Rock". AllMusic. Archived from the original on October 28, 2010.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)
Hajari, Nisid (November 19, 1993). "Pearl's Jam". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 14, 2007. Retrieved August 29, 2007.
Christgau, Robert (2000). "CG 90s: Introduction". robertchristgau.com. Archived from the original on April 13, 2019. Retrieved April 13, 2019.
^ Brown, Jake (2011). Jane's Addiction: In the Studio. Black Market Publishing. ISBN 9780972614276.
"REM Biography". Sing 365. Archived from the original on July 2, 2012. Retrieved June 20, 2013.
^ Thompson, Dave. "Introduction". Third Ear: Alternative Rock. San Francisco: Miller Freeman, 2000. p. viii.
DeRogatis, Jim. Milk It!: Collected Musings on the Alternative Music Explosion of the 90's. Cambridge: Da Capo, 2003. p. 18. ISBN 0-306-81271-1.
^ Pawlak, Christine (November 15, 2011). "Alternative rock radio: The sad, unwarranted decline of FM Rock Stations". Slate. Archived from the original on May 28, 2014. Retrieved December 29, 2013.
^ "Queen head all-time sales chart". BBC.co.uk. November 16, 2006. Archived from the original on February 4, 2007. Retrieved January 3, 2007.
Throughout the 1980s, alternative rock remained mainly an underground phenomenon. While on occasion a song would become a commercial hit or albums would receive critical praise in mainstream publications like Rolling Stone, alternative rock in the 1980s was primarily featured on independent record labels, fanzines, and college radio stations. Alternative bands built underground followings by touring constantly and by regularly releasing low-budget albums. In the case of the United States, new bands would form in the wake of previous bands, which created an extensive underground circuit in America, filled with different scenes in various parts of the country.[29] College radio formed an essential part of breaking new alternative music. In the mid-1980s, college station KCPR in San Luis Obispo, California, described in a DJ handbook the tension between popular and "cutting edge" songs as played on "alternative radio".[39]
^ Reynolds, Simon (March 1994). "Bark Psychosis: Hex". Mojo. Archived from the original on September 16, 2012. Retrieved July 8, 2008.
"Here's a List of the Top Most Influential Grunge Bands from Seattle". Archived from the original on June 27, 2015. Retrieved May 20, 2015.
^ Youngs, Ian. "Looking back at the birth of Britpop" Archived March 22, 2018, at the Wayback Machine. BBC News. August 14, 2005. Retrieved July 19, 2009.
This page was last edited on 14 March 2023, at 17:06 (UTC).
Kallen, Stuart A. (2012). The History of Alternative Rock. Lucent Books. pp. 6–7. ISBN 978-1-4205-0738-6.
^ Kallen, Stuart A. (2012). The History of Alternative Rock. Lucent Books. pp. 6–7. ISBN 978-1-4205-0738-6.
After almost a decade in the underground, ska punk, a mixture of earlier British ska and punk acts, became popular in the United States. Rancid was the first of the "Third Wave Ska Revival" acts to break. In 1996, the Mighty Mighty Bosstones, No Doubt, Sublime, Goldfinger, Reel Big Fish, Less Than Jake and Save Ferris charted or received radio exposure.[102][103]
By the end of the decade, a number of alternative bands began to sign to major labels. While early major label signings Hüsker Dü and the Replacements had little success, acts who signed with majors in their wake such as R.E.M. and Jane's Addiction achieved gold and platinum records, setting the stage for alternative's later breakthrough.[54][55] Some bands such as Pixies had massive success overseas while they were ignored domestically.[29]
Whores: An Oral Biography of Perry Farrell and Jane's Addiction
^ "Grunge". AllMusic. Archived from the original on June 2, 2012. Retrieved August 24, 2012.
Catalano, Michele. "Don't Believe The Billboard Charts; Rock Isn't Dead". Forbes. Archived from the original on December 31, 2013. Retrieved December 29, 2013.
^ DiCrescenzo, Brent (July 28, 2011). "Dave Grohl of Foo Fighters Extended interview Lollapalooza 2011". Time Out. Archived from the original on December 20, 2019. Retrieved July 3, 2018.
By the late 1980s, the American alternative scene was dominated by styles ranging from quirky alternative pop (They Might Be Giants and Camper Van Beethoven), to noise rock (Sonic Youth, Big Black, the Jesus Lizard[50]) and industrial rock (Ministry, Nine Inch Nails). These sounds were in turn followed by the advent of Boston's Pixies and Los Angeles' Jane's Addiction.[29] Around the same time, the grunge subgenre emerged in Seattle, Washington, initially referred to as "The Seattle Sound" until its rise to popularity in the early 1990s.[51] Grunge featured a sludgy, murky guitar sound that syncretized heavy metal and punk rock.[52] Promoted largely by Seattle indie label Sub Pop, grunge bands were noted for their thrift store fashion which favored flannel shirts and combat boots suited to the local weather.[53] Early grunge bands Soundgarden and Mudhoney found critical acclaim in the U.S. and UK, respectively.[29]
Bands such as the White Stripes and the Strokes found success in the early 2000s, influencing an influx of new alternative rock bands that drew inspiration from garage rock, post-punk and new wave found commercial success in the early and mid 2000s, establishing the garage rock revival and post-punk revival movements.
^ a b Strauss, Neil. "Forget Pearl Jam. Alternative Rock Lives" Archived March 31, 2017, at the Wayback Machine. The New York Times. March 2, 1997. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
^ Carew, Anthony. "Alternative Music 101 – Is There a Difference Between 'Alternative' and 'Indie'?" Archived May 11, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. About.com. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
Azerrad, Michael. Our Band Could Be Your Life: Scenes from the American Indie Underground, 1981–1991. Little Brown and Company, 2001. ISBN 0-316-78753-1.
^ Grubbs, Eric (November 17, 2016). "Josh Venable on the Edge's Demise: 'Today Cheerleaders and Indie Kids Love Band of Horses'". dallasobserver.com. Dallas Observer, LP. Archived from the original on April 7, 2018. Retrieved April 7, 2018.
Fonarow, Wendy. Empire of Dirt: The Aesthetics and Rituals of British Indie Music. Wesleyan, 2006. ISBN 0-8195-6811-2.
Despite a change in style, alternative rock still managed to be mainstream. Post-grunge remained commercially viable into the start of the 21st century, when bands like Creed and Matchbox Twenty became among the most popular rock bands in the United States.[100] At the same time Britpop began to decline, Radiohead achieved critical acclaim with its third album OK Computer (1997), and its follow-ups Kid A (2000) and Amnesiac (2001), which were in marked contrast with the traditionalism of Britpop. Radiohead, along with post-Britpop groups like Travis and Coldplay, were major forces in British rock in subsequent years.[104]
^ McIntyre, Hugh (August 29, 2016). "Shawn Mendes Nabs Another Top 10 Hit While The Chainsmokers Remain At No. 1". Forbes. Archived from the original on August 30, 2016. Retrieved September 1, 2016.
In the mid-1990s, Sunny Day Real Estate defined the emo genre. Weezer's album Pinkerton (1996) was also influential.[56]
^ Erlewine, Stephen Thomas. "The Jesus Lizard Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved August 25, 2008.
F. McAlpine (June 14, 2007). "Paramore: Misery Business". MSNBC.com. Archived from the original on February 9, 2011..
^ Rosen, Craig. "Some See 'New Openness' Following Nirvana Success". Billboard. January 25, 1992.
^ "Genre – Goth Rock". AllMusic. Retrieved October 6, 2007.
By the end of the decade, alternative rock's style changed due to a number of events, notably the death of Nirvana's Kurt Cobain in 1994, Pearl Jam's lawsuit against concert venue promoter Ticketmaster (which in effect barred the group from playing many major venues around the United States for an extended period), and Soundgarden's break-up in 1997.[76] In addition to the decline of grunge bands, Britpop faded as Oasis's third album, Be Here Now (1997), received lackluster reviews and Blur began to incorporate influences from American alternative rock.[98] A signifier of alternative rock's changes was the hiatus of the Lollapalooza festival after an unsuccessful attempt to find a headliner in 1998. In light of the festival's troubles that year, Spin said, "Lollapalooza is as comatose as alternative rock right now".[99]
^ Thompson, Dave. Alternative Rock : Third Ear – The Essential Listening Companion. Backbeat Books, 2000. ISBN 978-0879306076 p 112.
"Muse Bask in First Grammy Win, Make Plans for Kid-Friendly Album"
^ "Alternative Pop/Rock Music Genre Overview". AllMusic. Archived from the original on October 22, 2021. Retrieved October 22, 2021.
^ a b Fonarow, Wendy Archived April 20, 2017, at the Wayback Machine (July 28, 2011). "Ask the indie professor: why do Americans think they invented indie? For years, Americans never used the term 'indie', preferring to label the likes of Bush 'alternative'. But things changed" Archived March 12, 2017, at the Wayback Machine. The Guardian.
Before the term alternative rock came into common usage around 1990, the sorts of music to which it refers were known by a variety of terms.[9] In 1979, Terry Tolkin used the term Alternative Music to describe the groups he was writing about.[10] In 1979 Dallas radio station KZEW had a late night new wave show entitled "Rock and Roll Alternative".[11]"College rock" was used in the United States to describe the music during the 1980s due to its links to the college radio circuit and the tastes of college students.[12] In the United Kingdom, dozens of small do it yourself record labels emerged as a result of the punk subculture. According to the founder of one of these labels, Cherry Red, NME and Sounds magazines published charts based on small record stores called "Alternative Charts". The first national chart based on distribution called the Indie Chart was published in January 1980; it immediately succeeded in its aim to help these labels. At the time, the term indie was used literally to describe independently distributed records.[13] By 1985, indie had come to mean a particular genre, or group of subgenres, rather than simply distribution status.[12]
Erlewine, Stephen Thomas. "PJ Harvey Biography". Billboard.com. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
"Top 10 Billboard Chart Milestones", Billboard magazine, p. 17, November 27, 2004
"Third Wave Ska Revival Music Genre Overview". AllMusic. Archived from the original on October 13, 2018. Retrieved December 31, 2018.
^ a b F. McAlpine (June 14, 2007). "Paramore: Misery Business". MSNBC.com. Archived from the original on February 9, 2011..
^ "Are We Not New Wave Modern Pop at the Turn of the 1980s" by Theo Cateforis University of Michigan Press 2011 p. 38 ISBN 9780472115556
"Twenty One Pilots' 'Blurryface' Becomes First Album With Every Song RIAA-Certified Gold"
^ Puterbaugh, Parke (April 7, 1994). "Crackers with Attitude". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on January 28, 2021. Retrieved August 26, 2020.
"Emo Music Genre Overview". AllMusic. Archived from the original on May 14, 2020. Retrieved December 31, 2018.
^ "Indie music pioneer returns with a little help from his admirershis". Sydney Morning Herald. Archived from the original on May 11, 2013. Retrieved June 20, 2013.
Eloise, Marianne (October 5, 2020). "From Avril Lavigne to Billie Eilish: a recent history of pop's alt-girls". The Forty-Five. Retrieved October 24, 2022.
"Alternative music is music that hasn't yet achieved a mainstream audience, Alternative isn't new wave any more, it's a disposition of mind. Alternative music is any kind of music that has the potential to reach a wider audience. It also has real strength, real quality, real excitement, and it has to be socially significant, as opposed to Whitney Houston, which is pablum."
^ Hasted, Nick (October 27, 2006). "How an NME cassette launched indie music". The Independent. London. Archived from the original on July 27, 2012. Retrieved July 19, 2009.
Hasted, Nick (October 27, 2006). "How an NME cassette launched indie music". The Independent. London. Archived from the original on July 27, 2012. Retrieved July 19, 2009.
In 1995, Smashing Pumpkins also released their double album Mellon Collie & the Infinite Sadness which went on to sell 10 million copies in the US alone, certifying it as a Diamond record.[96]
Mullen, Brendan. Whores: An Oral Biography of Perry Farrell and Jane's Addiction. Cambridge: Da Capo, 2005. p. 19. ISBN 0-306-81347-5.
^ A. Goetchius, Career Building Through Social Networking (The Rosen Publishing Group, 2007), ISBN 1-4042-1943-9, pp. 21–2.
^ a b Considine, J.D. "The Decade of Living Dangerously". Guitar World. March 1999
McIntyre, Hugh. "Twenty One Pilots Become The First Rock Act To See A Song Reach One Billion Plays On Spotify". Forbes. Archived from the original on March 30, 2019. Retrieved March 30, 2019.
A precursor to alternative rock existed in the 1960s with the proto-punk scene.[33] The origins of alternative rock can be traced back to The Velvet Underground & Nico (1967) by the Velvet Underground,[34] which influenced many alternative rock bands that would come after it.[35] Eccentric and quirky figures of the 1960s, such as Syd Barrett have influence on alternative rock in general.[36]
^ Harris, John (July 12, 2006). "Barrett's influence". The Guardian. Archived from the original on February 7, 2020. Retrieved July 27, 2019.
^ Leahey, Andrew. "Thirty Seconds to Mars". AllMusic. All Media Network. Archived from the original on October 3, 2018. Retrieved October 20, 2014.
Our Band Could Be Your Life: Scenes from the American Indie Underground, 1981–1991
^ Pelly, Jenn (December 20, 2022). "Confronting Music's Mental Health Crisis". Pitchfork. Retrieved December 27, 2022.
In 1987, Spin magazine categorized college rock band Camper Van Beethoven as "alternative/indie", saying that their 1985 song "Where the Hell Is Bill" (from Telephone Free Landslide Victory) "called out the alternative/independent scene and dryly tore it apart."[17] David Lowery, then frontman of Camper Van Beethoven, later recalled: "I remember first seeing that word applied to us... The nearest I could figure is that we seemed like a punk band, but we were playing pop music, so they made up this word alternative for those of us who do that."[18] DJs and promoters during the 1980s claim the term originates from American FM radio of the 1970s, which served as a progressive alternative to top 40 radio formats by featuring longer songs and giving DJs more freedom in song selection. According to one former DJ and promoter, "Somehow this term 'alternative' got rediscovered and heisted by college radio people during the 80s who applied it to new post-punk, indie, or underground-whatever music."[19]
^ 'Enthal, Andrea (April 1986). "College Radio". Spin. Vol. 2, no. 1. p. 108. ISSN 0886-3032. Archived from the original on August 22, 2021. Retrieved August 26, 2020.
^ "Alternative Pop | Definition of Alternative Pop by Merriam-Webster". Archived from the original on May 22, 2021. Retrieved May 22, 2021.
di Perna, Alan. "Brave Noise—The History of Alternative Rock Guitar". Guitar World. December 1995.
"Twenty One Pilots' "Blurryface" Earns Unrivaled Gold & Platinum Achievement: First Album In Digital Era With Every Song RIAA Certified"
H. A. S. Popkin (March 26, 2006). "What exactly is 'emo,' anyway?". MSNBC.com. Archived from the original on August 7, 2017. Retrieved November 11, 2019..
Gothic rock developed out of late-1970s British post-punk. With a reputation as the "darkest and gloomiest form of underground rock", gothic rock utilizes a synthesizer-and-guitar based sound drawn from post-punk to construct "foreboding, sorrowful, often epic soundscapes", and the subgenre's lyrics often address literary romanticism, morbidity, religious symbolism, and supernatural mysticism.[57] Bands of this subgenre took inspiration from two British post-punk groups, Joy Division and Siouxsie and the Banshees.[58] Bauhaus' debut single "Bela Lugosi's Dead", released in 1979, is considered to be the proper beginning of the gothic rock subgenre.[59] The Cure's "oppressively dispirited" albums including Pornography (1982) cemented that group's stature in that style and laid the foundation for its large cult following.[60]
In the middle of the decade, Hüsker Dü's album Zen Arcade influenced other hardcore acts by tackling personal issues. Out of Washington, D.C.'s hardcore scene what was called "emocore" or, later, "emo" emerged and was noted for its lyrics which delved into emotional, very personal subject matter (vocalists sometimes cried) and added free association poetry and a confessional tone. Rites of Spring has been described as the first "emo" band. Former Minor Threat singer Ian MacKaye founded Dischord Records which became the center for the city's emo scene.[56]
^ Mitchell, Tony (2018). "Lorde's Auckland: Stepping Out of "the Bubble"". Made in Australia and Aotearoa/New Zealand Studies in Popular Music: Ch. 3.
^ a b c di Perna, Alan. "Brave Noise—The History of Alternative Rock Guitar". Guitar World. December 1995.
Kobel, Peter (April 2, 1993). "Smells Like Big Bucks". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 14, 2007. Retrieved July 25, 2007.
Dolan, Emily (2010). "'...This little ukulele tells the truth':indie pop and kitsch authenticity". Popular Music. 29/3 (3): 457–469. doi:10.1017/s0261143010000437. S2CID 194113672.
'Enthal, Andrea (April 1986). "College Radio". Spin. Vol. 2, no. 1. p. 108. ISSN 0886-3032. Archived from the original on August 22, 2021. Retrieved August 26, 2020.
^ "Review/Rock; Arena-Size Bill of Alternative Rock". The New York Times. July 21, 1989. "It was the final show on a package tour that brought what used to be post-punk alternative rock, the province of clubs and cult audiences, to the arena circuit across the United States."
41980s: Early history											Toggle 1980s: Early history subsection																					4.1American underground in the 1980s																											4.2British subgenres and trends of the 1980s
^ Kobel, Peter (April 2, 1993). "Smells Like Big Bucks". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 14, 2007. Retrieved July 25, 2007.
"Josh Venable on the Edge's Demise: 'Today Cheerleaders and Indie Kids Love Band of Horses'"
Azerrad, Michael. Come As You Are: The Story of Nirvana. Doubleday, 1994. ISBN 0-385-47199-8.
"Queen head all-time sales chart". BBC.co.uk. November 16, 2006. Archived from the original on February 4, 2007. Retrieved January 3, 2007.
^ McIntyre, Hugh (August 31, 2016). "Twenty One Pilots Match A Charting Feat That Only The Beatles And Elvis Have Managed". Forbes. Archived from the original on November 29, 2020. Retrieved September 1, 2016.
Erlewine, Stephen Thomas. "British Alternative Rock". AllMusic. Retrieved May 20, 2006.
According to AllMusic, the alternative scene's “left-of-center pop” failed to experience mainstream success during the 1980s,[129] although the UK alternative pop band Siouxsie and the Banshees saw success in that decade.[130] Canadian singer Avril Lavigne's success in the early 2000s, including her hit single "Sk8er Boi", helped set the stage for a subsequent generation of female alt-pop singers.[131] In the late '00s, American singer Santigold established herself as an "alternative pop hero" due to her apparent artistic conviction.[132] In the early 2010s, American singer Lana Del Rey developed a "cult-like following" with her cinematic, beat-heavy alt-pop," which was characterized by an "alluring sadness and melodrama."[133] New Zealand alt-pop singer Lorde achieved global success in 2013 and 2014, topping charts and winning awards.[134] In 2022, American singer Billie Eilish was credited with marking the "ascendence" of alternative pop in the mainstream with her dark, downbeat pop.[128]
Erlewine, Stephen Thomas. "American Alternative Rock/Post-Punk". AllMusic. Retrieved May 20, 2006.
Ross, Sean (September 10, 1988). "Billboard Debuts Weekly Chart of Alternative Rock". Billboard. Vol. 100, no. 37. p. 1,10.
^ "Britannica.com". Archived from the original on December 25, 2019. Retrieved April 26, 2019.
The Amerindie of the early '80s became known as alternative or alt-rock, ascendant from Nirvana until 1996 or so but currently very unfashionable, never mind that the music is still there.
"The Jesus and Mary Chain Biography". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on August 29, 2012. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
"In Numero Uno". Entertainment Weekly. October 8, 1993. Archived from the original on October 4, 2007. Retrieved September 8, 2007.
Pelly, Jenn (December 20, 2022). "Confronting Music's Mental Health Crisis". Pitchfork. Retrieved December 27, 2022.
^ Stanley, Bob. "Will the indie chart rise again?" Archived December 23, 2019, at the Wayback Machine. The Guardian. July 31, 2009. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
^ a b c Gerr, Jim (December 1991), "Artist of the Year: Perry Farrell of Jane's Addiction", Spin (magazine)
^ Whiteley, Sheila; Bennett, Andy; Hawkins, Stan (2004). Music, Space And Place: Popular Music And Cultural Identity. Ashgate Publishing, Ltd. p. 84. ISBN 978-0-7546-5574-9. Archived from the original on May 13, 2016. Retrieved November 27, 2012.
Other grunge bands subsequently replicated Nirvana's success. Pearl Jam had released its debut album Ten a month before Nevermind in 1991, but album sales only picked up a year later.[77] By the second half of 1992 Ten became a breakthrough success, being certified gold and reaching number two on the Billboard 200 album chart.[78] Soundgarden's album Badmotorfinger, Alice in Chains' Dirt and Stone Temple Pilots' Core along with the Temple of the Dog album collaboration featuring members of Pearl Jam and Soundgarden, were also among the 100 top-selling albums of 1992.[79] The popular breakthrough of these grunge bands prompted Rolling Stone to nickname Seattle "the new Liverpool".[53] Major record labels signed most of the prominent grunge bands in Seattle, while a second influx of bands moved to the city in hopes of success.[80]
F. McAlpine (December 18, 2006). "Paramore "Misery Business"". NME. Archived from the original on December 28, 2010..
^ Ross, Sean (September 10, 1988). "Billboard Debuts Weekly Chart of Alternative Rock". Billboard. Vol. 100, no. 37. p. 1,10.
Noise From The Underground : A History of Alternative Rock, by Michael Lavine and Pat Blashill. Simon and Schuster Publishing, 1996. ISBN 0-684-81513-3.
—Mark Josephson, Executive Director of the New Music Seminar speaking in 1988[38]
Hann, Michael (October 13, 2004). "Fey City Rollers". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on June 5, 2011. Retrieved July 19, 2009.
^ "Top 10 Billboard Chart Milestones", Billboard magazine, p. 17, November 27, 2004
^ a b c Grierson, Tim. "Post-Grunge. A History of Post-Grunge Rock". About.com. Archived from the original on May 30, 2016. Retrieved March 19, 2016.
J. Hoard. "My Chemical Romance". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on March 21, 2011..
^ "Awards". April 30, 2017. Archived from the original on November 9, 2016. Retrieved October 5, 2018.
^ a b c d e f g h Erlewine, Stephen Thomas. "American Alternative Rock/Post-Punk". AllMusic. Retrieved May 20, 2006.
^ Hiatt, Brian; Bonin, Lian; Volby, Karen (July 9, 2004). "The Return of (Good) Alt-Rock". EW.com. Archived from the original on October 14, 2007. Retrieved August 28, 2007.
"Billie Eilish review, Glastonbury 2022: History-making set is 90 minutes of noir-pop catharsis"
Traditionally, alternative rock varied in terms of its sound, social context, and regional roots. Throughout the 1980s, magazines and zines, college radio airplay, and word of mouth had increased the prominence and highlighted the diversity of alternative rock's distinct styles (and music scenes), such as noise pop, indie rock, grunge, and shoegaze. In September 1988, Billboard introduced "alternative" into their charting system to reflect the rise of the format across radio stations in the United States by stations like KROQ-FM in Los Angeles and WDRE-FM in New York, which were playing music from more underground, independent, and non-commercial rock artists.[6][7]
^ Pareles, Jon. "A New Kind of Rock" Archived December 22, 2019, at the Wayback Machine. The New York Times. March 5, 1989. Retrieved July 19, 2009.
^ a b c "Post-Grunge". AllMusic. Retrieved August 28, 2007.
By the start of the 1990s, the music industry was enticed by alternative rock's commercial possibilities and major labels had already signed Jane's Addiction, Red Hot Chili Peppers and Dinosaur Jr.[54] In early 1991, R.E.M. went mainstream worldwide with Out of Time while becoming a blueprint for many alternative bands.[29]
^ a b J. DeRogatis (October 3, 2003). "True Confessional?". Chicago Sun Times. Archived from the original on May 1, 2011..
^ F. McAlpine (December 18, 2006). "Paramore "Misery Business"". NME. Archived from the original on December 28, 2010..
During the late 1990s and early 2000s, several alternative rock bands emerged, including the Strokes, Franz Ferdinand, Interpol, and the Rapture that drew primary inspiration from post-punk and new wave, establishing the post-punk revival movement.[115] Preceded by the success of bands such as the Strokes and the White Stripes earlier in the decade, an influx of new alternative rock bands, including several post-punk revival artists and others such as the Killers, and Yeah Yeah Yeahs, found commercial success in the early and mid 2000s. Owing to the success of these bands, Entertainment Weekly declared in 2004, "After almost a decade of domination by rap-rock and nu-metal bands, mainstream alt-rock is finally good again."[116] Arctic Monkeys were a prominent act to owe their initial commercial success to the use of Internet social networking,[117] with two UK No. 1 singles and Whatever People Say I Am, That's What I'm Not (2006), which became the fastest-selling debut album in British chart history.[118]
"Indie music pioneer returns with a little help from his admirershis"
"Muse Bask in First Grammy Win, Make Plans for Kid-Friendly Album". MTV. Archived from the original on December 25, 2013. Retrieved October 5, 2018.
"Twenty One Pilots Become The First Rock Act To See A Song Reach One Billion Plays On Spotify"
Strauss, Neil. "Forget Pearl Jam. Alternative Rock Lives" Archived March 31, 2017, at the Wayback Machine. The New York Times. March 2, 1997. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
^ A. Kumi (January 30, 2006), "Arctic Monkeys make chart history", The Guardian, archived from the original on August 23, 2011
Pareles, Jon (February 28, 1993). "Great Riffs. Big Bucks. New Hopes?". NYTimes.com. Archived from the original on May 10, 2013. Retrieved July 19, 2009.
^ a b c d e Stephen Thomas Erlewine. "British Alternative Rock". AllMusic. Archived from the original on October 28, 2010.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)
^ Christgau, Robert (2000). "CG 90s: Introduction". robertchristgau.com. Archived from the original on April 13, 2019. Retrieved April 13, 2019.
The key British alternative rock band to emerge during the 1980s was Manchester's the Smiths. Music journalist Simon Reynolds singled out the Smiths and their American contemporaries R.E.M. as "the two most important alt-rock bands of the day", commenting that they "were eighties bands only in the sense of being against the eighties".[61] The Smiths exerted an influence over the British indie scene through the end of the decade, as various bands drew from singer Morrissey's English-centered lyrical topics and guitarist Johnny Marr's jangly guitar-playing style.[43] The C86 cassette, a 1986 NME premium featuring Primal Scream, the Wedding Present and others, was a major influence on the development of indie pop and the British indie scene as a whole.[62][63]
Gerr, Jim (December 1991), "Artist of the Year: Perry Farrell of Jane's Addiction", Spin (magazine)
Thompson, Dave. Alternative Rock : Third Ear – The Essential Listening Companion. Backbeat Books, 2000. ISBN 978-0879306076 p 112.
Long synonymous with alternative rock as a whole in the US, indie rock became a distinct form following the popular breakthrough of Nirvana.[89] Indie rock was formulated as a rejection of alternative rock's absorption into the mainstream by artists who could not or refused to cross over, and a wariness of its "macho" aesthetic. While indie rock artists share the punk rock distrust of commercialism, the genre does not entirely define itself against that, as "the general assumption is that it's virtually impossible to make indie rock's varying musical approaches compatible with mainstream tastes in the first place".[89]
^ "REM Biography". Sing 365. Archived from the original on July 2, 2012. Retrieved June 20, 2013.
6Mid-1990s: Change in sound											Toggle Mid-1990s: Change in sound subsection																					6.1Post-grunge																											6.2Other trends
During the latter half of the 1990s, grunge was supplanted by post-grunge. Many post-grunge bands lacked the underground roots of grunge and were largely influenced by what grunge had become, namely "a wildly popular form of inward-looking, serious-minded hard rock."; many post-grunge bands emulated the sound and style of grunge, "but not necessarily the individual idiosyncracies of its original artists."[100] Post-grunge was a more commercially viable genre that tempered the distorted guitars of grunge with polished, radio-ready production.[100] Originally, post-grunge was a label used almost pejoratively on bands that emerged when grunge was mainstream and emulated the grunge sound. The label suggested that bands labelled as post-grunge were simply musically derivative, or a cynical response to an "authentic" rock movement.[101] Bush, Candlebox and Collective Soul were labelled almost pejoratively as post-grunge which, according to Tim Grierson of About.com, is "suggesting that rather than being a musical movement in their own right, they were just a calculated, cynical response to a legitimate stylistic shift in rock music."[101] Post-grunge morphed during the late 1990s as post-grunge bands such as Foo Fighters, Creed and Nickelback emerged.[101]
"Here's a List of the Top Most Influential Grunge Bands from Seattle"
"Encyclopædia Britannica: the Jesus and Mary Chain". Archived from the original on December 2, 2011. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
The Dead Kennedys formed the independent record label Alternative Tentacles in 1979, releasing influential underground music such as the 1983 self-titled EP from the Butthole Surfers. By 1984, a majority of groups signed to indie labels mined from a variety of rock and particularly 1960s rock influences. This represented a sharp break from the futuristic, hyper-rational post-punk years.[37]
Contemporary mainstream alternative rock bands tend to fuse musical elements of hard rock, electronica, hip-hop, indie, and punk while placing emphasis on keyboards and guitar. In 2010s, British rock band Muse gained a worldwide recognition with their album The Resistance and Drones which won Grammy Awards.[120][121] American alternative duo Twenty One Pilots blurs the lines between genres including hip hop, emo, rock, indie pop and reggae and has managed to break numerous records.[122] They became the first alternative act to have two concurrent top five singles in the United States while their fourth studio album Blurryface (2015) was the first album in history to have every song receive at least a Gold certification from the Recording Industry Association of America.[123][124][125] Twenty One Pilots also became the first rock act to have a song reach a billion streams on Spotify.[126] Their breakout hit single "Stressed Out" was the twenty-fifth song to achieve the rare feat of at least one billion plays on the streaming platform. The milestone comes at a time when music genres represented on streaming platforms like Spotify are fairly homogeneous, being dominated by genres such as hip hop, EDM, and adult contemporary-styled pop.[126]
^ "The Top 100 Alternative Albums of the 1960s". Spin. March 28, 2013. Archived from the original on February 1, 2020. Retrieved October 11, 2018.
"The Smashing Pumpkins – Biography, Albums, Streaming Links". AllMusic. Archived from the original on December 14, 2018. Retrieved December 31, 2018.
Although American alternative artists of the 1980s never generated spectacular album sales, they exerted a considerable influence on later alternative musicians and laid the groundwork for their success.[40] On September 10, 1988, an Alternative Songs chart was created by Billboard, listing the 40 most-played songs on alternative and modern rock radio stations in the US: the first number one was Siouxsie and the Banshees' "Peek-a-Boo".[41] By 1989 the genre had become popular enough that a package tour featuring New Order, Public Image Limited and the Sugarcubes toured the United States arena circuit.[42]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Neo-Psychedelia Music Genre Overview". AllMusic. Archived from the original on August 29, 2020. Retrieved December 31, 2018.
"Rewinding the Charts: In 1988, Alternative Songs Launched, With Siouxsie & the Banshees' 'Peek-a-Boo' as the First No. 1"
Puterbaugh, Parke (April 7, 1994). "Crackers with Attitude". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on January 28, 2021. Retrieved August 26, 2020.
"Indie music pioneer returns with a little help from his admirershis". Sydney Morning Herald. Archived from the original on May 11, 2013. Retrieved June 20, 2013.
Olsen, Eric (April 9, 2004). "10 years later, Cobain lives on in his music". Today.com.com. Archived from the original on March 23, 2017. Retrieved July 25, 2007.
^ "In Numero Uno". Entertainment Weekly. October 8, 1993. Archived from the original on October 4, 2007. Retrieved September 8, 2007.
^ "Twenty One Pilots' "Blurryface" Earns Unrivaled Gold & Platinum Achievement: First Album In Digital Era With Every Song RIAA Certified". Recording Industry Association of America. March 1, 2018. Archived from the original on December 28, 2020. Retrieved March 1, 2018.
^ Eloise, Marianne (October 5, 2020). "From Avril Lavigne to Billie Eilish: a recent history of pop's alt-girls". The Forty-Five. Retrieved October 24, 2022.
Post-rock was established by Talk Talk's Laughing Stock and Slint's Spiderland albums, both released in 1991.[93] Post-rock draws influence from a number of genres, including Krautrock, progressive rock, and jazz. The genre subverts or rejects rock conventions, and often incorporates electronic music.[93] While the name of the genre was coined by music journalist Simon Reynolds in 1994 referring to Hex by the London group Bark Psychosis,[94] the style of the genre was solidified by the release of Millions Now Living Will Never Die (1996) by the Chicago group Tortoise.[93] Post-rock became the dominant form of experimental rock music in the 1990s and bands from the genre signed to such labels as Thrill Jockey, Kranky, Drag City, and Too Pure.[93] A related genre, math rock, peaked in the mid-1990s. In comparison to post-rock, math rock relies on more complex time signatures and intertwining phrases.[95] By the end of the decade a backlash had emerged against post-rock due to its "dispassionate intellectuality" and its perceived increasing predictability, but a new wave of post-rock bands such as Godspeed You! Black Emperor and Sigur Rós emerged who further expanded the genre.[93]
^ "POP/JAZZ; Rock by Any Other Name Is 'Alternative' ". The New York Times. July 15, 1988.
"alternative pop". Merriam-Webster. Archived from the original on May 22, 2021. Retrieved May 22, 2021.
"Alternative Pop/Rock Music Genre Overview". AllMusic. Archived from the original on October 22, 2021. Retrieved October 22, 2021.
Goddard, Simon (2010). Mozipedia: The Encyclopedia of Morrissey and the Smiths [Sioux, Siouxsie entry]. Ebury Press. p. 393. ISBN 978-0452296671.
^ a b "Rock Music". Microsoft Encarta 2006 [CD]. Redmond, WA: Microsoft Corporation, 2005.
In 1993, Smashing Pumpkins album Siamese Dream was a major commercial success. The strong influence of heavy metal and progressive rock on the album helped to legitimize alternative rock to mainstream radio programmers and close the gap between alternative rock and the type of rock played on American 1970s Album Oriented Rock radio.[96]
^ Weisbard, Eric. "This Monkey's Gone to Heaven". Spin. July 1998.
^ Mullen, Brendan. Whores: An Oral Biography of Perry Farrell and Jane's Addiction. Cambridge: Da Capo, 2005. p. 19. ISBN 0-306-81347-5.
At first the term referred to intentionally non-mainstream rock acts that were not influenced by "heavy metal ballads, rarefied new wave" and "high-energy dance anthems".[20] Usage of the term would broaden to include new wave, pop, punk rock, post-punk, and occasionally "college"/"indie" rock, all found on the American "commercial alternative" radio stations of the time such as Los Angeles' KROQ-FM. Journalist Jim Gerr wrote that Alternative also encompassed variants such as "rap, trash, metal and industrial".[21] The bill of the first Lollapalooza, an itinerant festival in North America conceived by Jane's Addiction frontman Perry Farrell, reunited "disparate elements of the alternative rock community" including Henry Rollins, Butthole Surfers, Ice-T, Nine Inch Nails, Siouxsie and the Banshees (as second headliners) and Jane's Addiction (as the headlining act).[21] Covering for MTV the opening date of Lollapalooza in Phoenix in July 1991, Dave Kendall introduced the report saying the festival presented the "most diverse lineups of alternative rock".[22] That summer, Farrell had coined the term Alternative Nation.[23]
^ "The Jesus and Mary Chain Biography". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on August 29, 2012. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
^ Rogers, Jude (July 27, 2007). "Diamond gazers". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on March 7, 2017. Retrieved December 13, 2016.
Shouneyia, Alexa. "Songs That Defined the Decade: Lana Del Rey's 'Born to Die'". Billboard. Retrieved October 23, 2022.
Harris, John. Britpop!: Cool Britannia and the Spectacular Demise of English Rock. Da Capo Press, 2004. ISBN 0-306-81367-X.
^ a b "Indie Rock". AllMusic. Retrieved August 2, 2009.
The use of the term alternative to describe rock music originated around the mid-1980s;[14] at the time, the common music industry terms for cutting-edge music were new music and postmodern, respectively indicating freshness and a tendency to recontextualize sounds of the past.[5][15] A similar term, alternative pop, emerged around 1985.[16]
^ a b "The Smashing Pumpkins – Biography, Albums, Streaming Links". AllMusic. Archived from the original on December 14, 2018. Retrieved December 31, 2018.
Grierson, Tim. "Post-Grunge. A History of Post-Grunge Rock". About.com. Archived from the original on May 30, 2016. Retrieved March 19, 2016.
"BBC Culture "The Velvet Underground: As influential as The Beatles?"". Archived from the original on February 9, 2020. Retrieved April 26, 2019.
"Grunge". AllMusic. Archived from the original on June 2, 2012. Retrieved August 24, 2012.
^ "Smackdown: Pearl Jam vs. Nirvana". Soundcheck. Archived from the original on February 23, 2013. Retrieved June 20, 2013.
"Awards". April 30, 2017. Archived from the original on November 9, 2016. Retrieved October 5, 2018.
Starr, Larry; Waterman, Christopher. American Popular Music: From Minstrelsy to MTV. New York: Oxford University Press, 2003. p. 430. ISBN 0-19-510854-X.
"Rock Music". Microsoft Encarta 2006 [CD]. Redmond, WA: Microsoft Corporation, 2005.
"Britannica.com". Archived from the original on December 25, 2019. Retrieved April 26, 2019.
Pawlak, Christine (November 15, 2011). "Alternative rock radio: The sad, unwarranted decline of FM Rock Stations". Slate. Archived from the original on May 28, 2014. Retrieved December 29, 2013.
Harris, John (July 12, 2006). "Barrett's influence". The Guardian. Archived from the original on February 7, 2020. Retrieved July 27, 2019.
"Alternative Music 101 – Is There a Difference Between 'Alternative' and 'Indie'?"
"Smackdown: Pearl Jam vs. Nirvana". Soundcheck. Archived from the original on February 23, 2013. Retrieved June 20, 2013.
Youngs, Ian. "Looking back at the birth of Britpop" Archived March 22, 2018, at the Wayback Machine. BBC News. August 14, 2005. Retrieved July 19, 2009.
McIntyre, Hugh (August 31, 2016). "Twenty One Pilots Match A Charting Feat That Only The Beatles And Elvis Have Managed". Forbes. Archived from the original on November 29, 2020. Retrieved September 1, 2016.
Mitchell, Tony (2018). "Lorde's Auckland: Stepping Out of "the Bubble"". Made in Australia and Aotearoa/New Zealand Studies in Popular Music: Ch. 3.
Reynolds, Simon. Rip It Up and Start Again: Postpunk 1978–1984. Penguin, 2006. ISBN 0-14-303672-6.
Trust, Gary (October 11, 2018). "Rewinding the Charts: In 1988, Alternative Songs Launched, With Siouxsie & the Banshees' 'Peek-a-Boo' as the First No. 1". Billboard. Archived from the original on August 19, 2020. Retrieved June 16, 2020.
Social effectsRock Against CommunismRock Against RacismRock Against SexismRock music and the fall of communism
Labels such as Matador Records, Merge Records, and Dischord, and indie rockers like Pavement, Superchunk, Fugazi, and Sleater-Kinney dominated the American indie scene for most of the 1990s.[90] One of the main indie rock movements of the 1990s was lo-fi. The movement, which focused on the recording and distribution of music on low-quality cassette tapes, initially emerged in the 1980s. By 1992, Pavement, Guided by Voices and Sebadoh became popular lo-fi cult acts in the United States, while subsequently artists like Beck and Liz Phair brought the aesthetic to mainstream audiences.[91] The period also saw alternative confessional female singer-songwriters. Besides the aforementioned Liz Phair, PJ Harvey fit into this sub group.[92]
In December 1991, Spin magazine noted: "this year, for the first time, it became resoundingly clear that what has formerly been considered alternative rock—a college-centered marketing group with fairly lucrative, if limited, potential—has in fact moved into the mainstream."[21]
In contrast, British alternative rock was distinguished from that of the United States early on by a more pop-oriented focus (marked by an equal emphasis on albums and singles, as well as greater openness to incorporating elements of dance and club culture) and a lyrical emphasis on specifically British concerns. As a result, few British alternative bands have achieved commercial success in the US.[43] Since the 1980s alternative rock has been played extensively on the radio in the UK, particularly by disc jockeys such as John Peel (who championed alternative music on BBC Radio 1), Richard Skinner, and Annie Nightingale. Artists that had cult followings in the United States received greater exposure through British national radio and the weekly music press, and many alternative bands had chart success there.[44]
The release of the Nirvana's single "Smells Like Teen Spirit" in September 1991 "marked the instigation of the grunge music phenomenon". Helped by constant airplay of the song's music video on MTV, their album Nevermind was selling 400,000 copies a week by Christmas 1991.[70] Its success surprised the music industry. Nevermind not only popularized grunge, but also established "the cultural and commercial viability of alternative rock in general."[71] Michael Azerrad asserted that Nevermind symbolized "a sea-change in rock music" in which the hair metal that had dominated rock music at that time fell out of favor in the face of music that was authentic and culturally relevant.[72] The breakthrough success of Nirvana led to the widespread popularization of alternative rock in the 1990s. It heralded a "new openness to alternative rock" among commercial radio stations, opening doors for heavier alternative bands in particular.[73] In the wake of Nevermind, alternative rock "found itself dragged-kicking and screaming ... into the mainstream" and record companies, confused by the genre's success yet eager to capitalize on it, scrambled to sign bands.[74] The New York Times declared in 1993, "Alternative rock doesn't seem so alternative anymore. Every major label has a handful of guitar-driven bands in shapeless shirts and threadbare jeans, bands with bad posture and good riffs who cultivate the oblique and the evasive, who conceal catchy tunes with noise and hide craftsmanship behind nonchalance."[75] However, many alternative rock artists rejected success, for it conflicted with the rebellious, DIY ethic the genre had espoused before mainstream exposure and their ideas of artistic authenticity.[76]
"VMAs 2013: Rock is dead, One Direction and Justin Timberlake's brands of Top 40 are king at MTV Awards"
^ a b McIntyre, Hugh. "Twenty One Pilots Become The First Rock Act To See A Song Reach One Billion Plays On Spotify". Forbes. Archived from the original on March 30, 2019. Retrieved March 30, 2019.
Erlewine, Stephen Thomas. "The Jesus Lizard Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved August 25, 2008.
Lyons, James. Selling Seattle: Representing Contemporary Urban America. Wallflower, 2004. ISBN 1-903364-96-5.
"Twenty One Pilots' "Blurryface" Earns Unrivaled Gold & Platinum Achievement: First Album In Digital Era With Every Song RIAA Certified". Recording Industry Association of America. March 1, 2018. Archived from the original on December 28, 2020. Retrieved March 1, 2018.
Payne, Chris (March 1, 2018). "Twenty One Pilots' 'Blurryface' Becomes First Album With Every Song RIAA-Certified Gold". Billboard. Archived from the original on November 20, 2020. Retrieved March 1, 2018.
The name "alternative rock" essentially serves as an umbrella term for underground music that has emerged in the wake of punk rock since the mid-1980s.[29] Throughout much of its history, alternative rock has been largely defined by its rejection of the commercialism of mainstream culture, although this could be contested ever since some of the major alternative artists have achieved mainstream success or co-opted with the major labels from the 1990s onward (especially since the new millennium and beyond). Alternative bands during the 1980s generally played in small clubs, recorded for indie labels, and spread their popularity through word of mouth.[30] As such, there is no set musical style for alternative rock as a whole, although The New York Times in 1989 asserted that the genre is "guitar music first of all, with guitars that blast out power chords, pick out chiming riffs, buzz with fuzztone and squeal in feedback."[31] More often than in other rock-styles since the mainstreaming of rock music during the 1970s, alternative rock lyrics tend to address topics of social concern, such as drug use, depression, suicide, and environmentalism.[30] This approach to lyrics developed as a reflection of the social and economic strains in the United States and United Kingdom of the 1980s and early 1990s.[32]
Early American alternative bands such as the Dream Syndicate, the Bongos, 10,000 Maniacs, R.E.M., the Feelies and Violent Femmes combined punk influences with folk music and mainstream music influences. R.E.M. was the most immediately successful; their debut album, Murmur (1983), entered the Top 40 and spawned a number of jangle pop followers.[45] One of the many jangle pop scenes of the early 1980s, Los Angeles' Paisley Underground revived the sounds of the 1960s, incorporating psychedelia, rich vocal harmonies and the guitar interplay of folk rock as well as punk and underground influences such as the Velvet Underground.[29]
Initially, several alternative styles achieved minor mainstream notice and a few bands, such as R.E.M. and Jane's Addiction, were signed to major labels. Most alternative bands, however, remained signed to independent labels and received relatively little attention from mainstream radio, television, or newspapers. With the breakthrough of Nirvana and the popularity of the grunge and Britpop movements in the 1990s, alternative rock entered the musical mainstream, and many alternative bands became successful.
^ "Encyclopædia Britannica: the Jesus and Mary Chain". Archived from the original on December 2, 2011. Retrieved July 20, 2012.
^ Grohl, Dave. "Twitter / foofighters: Hey @NYDailyNews, speak for..." Twitter. Archived from the original on January 10, 2014. Retrieved December 29, 2013.
By 2000 and on into the new decade, emo was one of the most popular rock music genres.[56] Popular acts included the sales success of Bleed American by Jimmy Eat World (2001) and Dashboard Confessional's The Places You Have Come to Fear the Most (2003).[110] The new emo had a much more mainstream sound than in the 1990s and a far greater appeal amongst adolescents than its earlier incarnations.[110] At the same time, use of the term "emo" expanded beyond the musical genre, becoming associated with fashion, a hairstyle and any music that expressed emotion.[111] Emo's mainstream success continued with bands emerging in the 2000s, including multi-platinum acts such as Fall Out Boy[112] and My Chemical Romance[113] and mainstream groups such as Paramore[112] and Panic! at the Disco.[114]
Most references to alternative rock music in the United States past 2010 are to the indie rock genre, a term that previously had limited usage on alternative rock channels and media.[27] Radio stations in the 2010s have been changing formats away from alternative rock, but this is mostly motivated by conglomeration efforts coupled with advertisers seeking more Top 40/Top 100 stations for sales.[105]While there have been conflicting opinions on the relevance of alternative rock to mainstream audiences beyond 2010,[106][107] Dave Grohl commented on an article from the December 29, 2013 issue of the New York Daily News stating that rock is dead:[108] "speak for yourself... rock seems pretty alive to me."[109]
Brown, Jake (2011). Jane's Addiction: In the Studio. Black Market Publishing. ISBN 9780972614276.
"Review/Rock; Arena-Size Bill of Alternative Rock". The New York Times. July 21, 1989. "It was the final show on a package tour that brought what used to be post-punk alternative rock, the province of clubs and cult audiences, to the arena circuit across the United States."
^ "Here's a List of the Top Most Influential Grunge Bands from Seattle". Archived from the original on June 27, 2015. Retrieved May 20, 2015.
The first edition of the Lollapalooza festival became the most successful tour in North America in July and August 1991. For Dave Grohl of Nirvana who caught it near Los Angeles in an open-air amphitheater, "it felt like something was happening, that was the beginning of it all". The tour helped change the mentalities in the music industry: "by that fall, radio and MTV and music had changed. I really think that if it weren’t for Perry [Farrell], if it weren’t for Lollapalooza, you and I wouldn’t be having this conversation right now".[69]
721st century: Later developments											Toggle 21st century: Later developments subsection																					7.1Emo																											7.2Post-punk revival and Garage rock revival																											7.3Other trends of the 2000s																											7.4Trends of the 2010s
Weisbard, Eric. "This Monkey's Gone to Heaven". Spin. July 1998.
Farber, Jim. "VMAs 2013: Rock is dead, One Direction and Justin Timberlake's brands of Top 40 are king at MTV Awards". NY Daily News. Archived from the original on January 7, 2014. Retrieved December 29, 2013.
Alternative pop, or alt-pop, is a term used to describe pop music with broad commercial appeal that is made by figures outside the mainstream, or which is considered more original, challenging, or eclectic than traditional pop music.[127] The Independent described alt-pop as "a home-made, personalised imitation of the mainstream that speaks far closer to actual teenage experience," and which is commonly characterized by a dark or downbeat emotional tone with lyrics about insecurity, regret, drugs, and anxiety.[128]
^ H. A. S. Popkin (March 26, 2006). "What exactly is 'emo,' anyway?". MSNBC.com. Archived from the original on August 7, 2017. Retrieved November 11, 2019..
"BBC Culture "The Velvet Underground: As influential as The Beatles?""
Beaumont, Mark (June 26, 2022). "Billie Eilish review, Glastonbury 2022: History-making set is 90 minutes of noir-pop catharsis". The Independent. Retrieved October 24, 2022.
Thompson, Dave. "Introduction". Third Ear: Alternative Rock. San Francisco: Miller Freeman, 2000. p. viii.
^ "BBC Culture "The Velvet Underground: As influential as The Beatles?"". Archived from the original on February 9, 2020. Retrieved April 26, 2019.
Mozipedia: The Encyclopedia of Morrissey and the Smiths [Sioux, Siouxsie entry]
^ Catalano, Michele. "Don't Believe The Billboard Charts; Rock Isn't Dead". Forbes. Archived from the original on December 31, 2013. Retrieved December 29, 2013.
5Early 1990s: Popularization											Toggle Early 1990s: Popularization subsection																					5.1Grunge																											5.2Britpop																											5.3Indie rock																											5.4Post-rock																											5.5Other trends
Leahey, Andrew. "Thirty Seconds to Mars". AllMusic. All Media Network. Archived from the original on October 3, 2018. Retrieved October 20, 2014.
"From Avril Lavigne to Billie Eilish: a recent history of pop's alt-girls"
Browne, David (August 21, 1992). "Turn That @#!% Down!". EW.com. Archived from the original on May 16, 2007. Retrieved April 17, 2007.
^ Starr, Larry; Waterman, Christopher. American Popular Music: From Minstrelsy to MTV. New York: Oxford University Press, 2003. p. 430. ISBN 0-19-510854-X.
"Ask the indie professor: why do Americans think they invented indie? For years, Americans never used the term 'indie', preferring to label the likes of Bush 'alternative'. But things changed"
Rogers, Jude (July 27, 2007). "Diamond gazers". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on March 7, 2017. Retrieved December 13, 2016.
^ Browne, David (August 21, 1992). "Turn That @#!% Down!". EW.com. Archived from the original on May 16, 2007. Retrieved April 17, 2007.
American rock band Red Hot Chili Peppers entered a new-found popularity in 1999 after the release of their album Californication (1999), with continued success throughout the 2000s. Thirty Seconds to Mars experienced a notable rise in popularity during the latter half of the 2000s.[119]
^ "alternative pop". Merriam-Webster. Archived from the original on May 22, 2021. Retrieved May 22, 2021.
In the late 2010s, artists began a trend of releasing multiple singles before eventually releasing a studio album. An unnamed A&R representative confirmed to Rolling Stone in 2018 that "an artist has to build a foundation to sustain" and added that "When artists have one big record and go run with that, it doesn't work because they never had a foundation to begin with." The same article cited examples such as Cardi B, Camila Cabello and Jason Derulo releasing four or more singles prior to their album releases.[18]
In music, a single is a type of release, typically a song recording of fewer tracks than an LP record[1] or an album. One can be released for sale to the public in a variety of formats. In most cases, a single is a song that is released separately from an album, although it usually also appears on an album. In other cases a recording released as a single may not appear on an album.
Spencer Drate 45 RPM: A Visual History of the Seven-Inch Record, Princeton Architectural Press, 2002, p.10
"Tool Plots 'Vicarious' DVD Single". Billboard. 10 May 2006. Retrieved 10 June 2016.
"Music Sales Slip in 2011 But Digital Singles and Albums Sell Strongly"
"The Official UK Charts Company : Info pack from The Official UK Charts Company"
To compete with Columbia, RCA released albums as boxes of 45 rpm seven-inch singles that could be played continuously like an LP on their record changer. RCA was also releasing 7-inch singles pressed in different colors for different genres, making it easy for customers to find their preferred music. The novelty of multicolored singles wore off soon: by 1952, all RCA singles were pressed in black vinyl.[9]
As digital downloading and audio streaming have become more prevalent, it has become possible for every track on an album to also be available separately. Nevertheless, the concept of a single from an album has been retained as an identification of the more heavily promoted or more popular songs on an album. The demand for music downloads skyrocketed after the launch of Apple's iTunes Store (then called iTunes Music Store) in January 2001 and the creation of portable music and digital audio players such as the iPod.[citation needed]
"Web fans boost Marillion single". BBC News. 16 April 2004. Retrieved 10 June 2016.[permanent dead link]
Dance music, however, has followed a different commercial pattern and the single, especially the 12-inch vinyl single, remains a major method by which dance music is distributed.
"Why Your Favorite Artist Is Releasing More Singles Than Ever". Rolling Stone. 6 May 2018. Retrieved 28 September 2019.
"Music Sales Slip in 2011 But Digital Singles and Albums Sell Strongly" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 January 2012. Retrieved 23 January 2020.
Kim, Mi-hwa (1 May 2005). "Big Bang, singok 'Rujeo' 'Bebe' deureoboni..seulpeun gamseong chabunhan jungdokseong" 빅뱅, 신곡 '루저'·'베베' 들어보니..슬픈 감성+차분한 중독성 [Listen to Big Bang's New Songs 'Loser' and 'Bae Bae': sad, emotional, relaxing, addictive] (in Korean). MTN [ko]. Retrieved 17 January 2019.
^ "The Official UK Charts Company : Info pack from The Official UK Charts Company" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 July 2011.
Single sales in the United Kingdom reached an all-time low in January 2005, as the popularity of the compact disc was overtaken by the then-unofficial medium of the music download. Recognizing this, on 17 April 2005, Official UK Singles Chart added the download format to the existing format of physical CD singles. Gnarls Barkley was the first act to reach No.1 on this chart through downloads alone in April 2006, for their debut single "Crazy", which was released physically the following week. On 1 January 2007, digital downloads (including unbundled album tracks[14][15]) became eligible from the point of release, without the need for an accompanying physical.[16] Sales gradually improved in the following years, reaching a record high in 2008 that still proceeded to be overtaken in 2009, 2010 and 2011.[17]
The Gaon Album Chart tracks sales of all "offline" albums released as physical media and so single albums compete alongside full-length studio albums (LPs) and mini-albums (EPs). The Gaon Digital Chart, which tracks downloads and streams, is regarded as the official "singles" chart.
Although 7 inches remained the standard size for vinyl singles, 12-inch singles were introduced for use by DJs in discos in the 1970s. The longer playing time of these singles allowed the inclusion of extended dance mixes of tracks. In addition, the larger surface area of the 12-inch discs allowed for wider grooves (larger amplitude) and greater separation between grooves, the latter of which results in less cross-talk. Consequently, they are less susceptible to wear and scratches. The 12-inch single is still considered a standard format for dance music, though its popularity has declined in recent years.
Historically, when mainstream music was purchased via vinyl records, singles would be released double-sided, i.e. there was an A-side and a B-side, on which two songs would appear, one on each side.[2]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Single and EP Definitions on iTunes". Emubands.com. 22 April 2013. Retrieved 24 June 2016.
In some regions (e.g. US), the default hole size fitted the original RCA 1.5-inch (3.8 cm) hub which, due to a format war, was incompatible with the 0.25-inch (6.4 mm) spindle of a Columbia-system 33 1/3 RPM 12-inch LP player. In other regions (e.g. UK), the default was a small hole compatible with a multi-speed 0.25-inch spindle player, but with a "knock out" that was removed for usage on a larger hub player.
Singles have been issued in various formats, including 7-inch (18 cm), 10-inch and 12-inch discs, usually playing at 45 rpm; 10-inch shellac discs, playing at 78 rpm; maxi singles; 7-inch plastic flexi discs; cassettes; and 8 or 12 cm (3.1 or 4.7 in) CD singles. Other, less common, formats include singles on Digital Compact Cassette, DVD and Laserdisc, as well as many non-standard sizes of vinyl disc (5 in or 13 cm, 8 in or 20 cm, etc.).
^ Greil Marcus, 2005, Like a Rolling Stone, p. 145.
In South Korean music, the terminology for "albums" and "singles" is unique and includes an additional term, the single album (Korean: 싱글 음반; RR: singgeul eumban). In contemporary usage in English, the term "album" refers to an LP-length recording regardless of the medium, but in contrast, the Korean usage of "album" (Korean: 음반; RR: eumban) denotes a musical recording of any length released specifically on physical media. Although the terms "single albums" and "singles" are similar and sometimes may overlap, depending on the context, they are considered two distinct release types in South Korea. A "single album" refers to a physical release (like CD, LP or some other media) collecting one or more singles, while a "single" is only a song itself, typically a digital stream or download.
"DVD Singles Can Be Chart Success". DVD Intelligence. 17 August 2001. Archived from the original on 11 September 2016. Retrieved 10 June 2016. (subscription required)
"RIAA Adds Digital Streams To Historic Gold & Platinum Awards - RIAA"
The most common form of the vinyl single is the "45" or "7-inch". The names are derived from its play speed, 45 rpm (revolutions per minute), and the standard diameter, 7 inches (17.8 cm).
The claim made that 48-0001 by Eddy Arnold was the first 45 is evidently incorrect (even though 48-0000 has not turned up, 50-0000-Crudup, 51-0000-Meisel, and 52-0000 Goodman are out there) since all 45s were released simultaneously with the 45 player in March 1949. There was plenty of information leaked to the public about the new 45 rpm system through front-page articles in Billboard magazine on December 4, 1948, and again on January 8, 1949. RCA was trying to blunt the lead Columbia had established upon releasing their 33+1⁄3  LP system in June 1948.[8]
2Types of physical singles											Toggle Types of physical singles subsection																					2.17-inch format																											2.212-inch format
"The History of the Music Industry's First-Ever Digital Single For Sale, 20 Years After Its Release"
Despite being referred to as a single in the era of music downloads, singles can include up to as many as three tracks. The biggest digital music distributor, the iTunes Store, accepts as many as three tracks that are less than ten minutes each as a single.[1] Any more than three tracks on a musical release or thirty minutes in total running time is an extended play (EP) or, if over six tracks long, an album.
Single (Extended play (EP), 12" single, Cassette single, CD single, Maxi single)
^ Spencer Drate 45 RPM: A Visual History of the Seven-Inch Record, Princeton Architectural Press, 2002, p.9
The origins of the single are in the late 19th century, when music was distributed on phonograph cylinders that held two to four minutes' worth of audio. They were superseded by disc phonograph records, which initially also had a short duration of playing time per side. In the first two to three decades of the 20th century, almost all commercial music releases were, in effect, singles (the exceptions were usually for classical music pieces, where multiple physical storage media items were bundled together and sold as an album). Phonograph records were manufactured with a range of playback speeds (from 16 to 78 rpm) and in several sizes (including 12 inches or 30 centimetres). By about 1910, however, the 10-inch (25 cm), 78-rpm shellac disc had become the most commonly used format.
"Why Your Favorite Artist Is Releasing More Singles Than Ever"
^ "Digital streams to count for Gold and Platinum songs". USA Today. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
^ "Music Sales Slip in 2011 But Digital Singles and Albums Sell Strongly" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 January 2012. Retrieved 23 January 2020.
^ "Why Your Favorite Artist Is Releasing More Singles Than Ever". Rolling Stone. 6 May 2018. Retrieved 28 September 2019.
^ Christman, Ed (9 September 2007). "Music industry betting on 'ringle' format". Reuters. Retrieved 21 May 2008.
Osborne, Richard (2012). Vinyl: A History of the Analogue Record. Taylor & Francis. p. 139. ISBN 9781472434333. LCCN 2012021796.
^ Thompson, Dave (2002). A Music Lover's Guide to Record Collecting. San Francisco: Music Player Group (United Entertainment Media). p. 3. ISBN 0-87930-713-7. LCCN 2002016095.
One could play a large-hole record on a player with a quarter-inch spindle by inserting a single "puck" or by using a spindle adapter.
The sales of singles are recorded in record charts in most countries in a Top 40 format. The charts are often published in magazines and numerous television shows and radio programs count down the list. To be eligible for inclusion in charts, the single must meet the requirement set by the charting company that governs the playing time of the single.
^ "The History of the Music Industry's First-Ever Digital Single For Sale, 20 Years After Its Release". Billboard. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
With these factors applied to the 10-inch format, songwriters and performers increasingly tailored their output to fit the new medium. The three-minute single remained the standard into the 1960s, when the availability of microgroove recording and improved mastering techniques enabled recording artists to increase the duration of their recorded songs. The breakthrough came with Bob Dylan's "Like a Rolling Stone": although Columbia Records tried to make the record more "radio-friendly" by cutting the performance into halves and separating them between the two sides of the disc, both Dylan and his fans demanded that the full six-minute take be placed on one side and that radio stations play the song in its entirety.[3]
^ "OCC test charts reveal likely effects of rule changes". Music Week. 11 December 2006. Archived from the original on 18 September 2011. Retrieved 18 February 2010.
^ "Download Official UK Single Chart Rules - PDF" (PDF). The Official Chart Company. 2009. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 July 2011.
"The History of the Music Industry's First-Ever Digital Single For Sale, 20 Years After Its Release". Billboard. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
In September 1997, with the release of Duran Duran's "Electric Barbarella" for paid downloads, Capitol Records became the first major label to sell a digital single from a well-known artist. Previously, Geffen Records also released Aerosmith's "Head First" digitally for free.[11] In 2004, the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) introduced digital single certification due to significant sales of digital formats, with Gwen Stefani's "Hollaback Girl" becoming RIAA's first platinum digital single.[12] In 2013, RIAA incorporated on-demand streams into the digital single certification.[13]
"Beatles Singles Discography". University of Delaware. Retrieved 29 March 2019.
Carson, B. H.; Burt, A. D.; Reiskind, H. I., "A Record Changer and Record of Complementary Design", RCA Review, June 1949
A single album is distinct from a single even if it includes only one song. The single "Gotta Go" by Chungha was released on a single album titled XII, which was a one-track CD. Even though "Gotta Go" was the only song on XII, the two releases carry different titles and charted separately: XII reached No. 4 on the Gaon Album Chart, and "Gotta Go" reached No. 2 on the Gaon Digital Chart.[citation needed]
^ "RIAA Adds Digital Streams To Historic Gold & Platinum Awards - RIAA". Riaa.com. 6 May 2013. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
To give an example of the differences between full-length albums, single albums and singles, the K-pop boy band Big Bang has a full-length studio album, titled MADE, which was originally released as a series of four single albums: M, A, D and E. Two singles were included on each of those single albums; the first in the series, M, contains the singles "Loser" and "Bae Bae".[23]
"Gangsuji sing-geul-eumban chulsi-dan dugog sulog gagyeog-eun bissanpyeon" 강수지 싱글음반 출시-단 두곡 수록 가격은 비싼편
Starting in the mid-1960s, albums became a greater focus and became more important as artists created albums of uniformly high-quality and coherent themes, a trend that reached its apex in the development of the concept album. Over the 1990s and the early 2000s, the single generally received less and less attention in the United States as albums, which on compact disc had virtually identical production and distribution costs but could be sold at a higher price, became most retailers' primary method of selling music. Singles continued to be produced in the UK and Australia and survived the transition from compact disc to digital download. The decline of the physical single in the US during this time has been cited as a major marketing mistake on the part of record companies, as it eliminated an inexpensive recording format for young fans to become accustomed to purchasing music. In its place was the predominance of the album, which alienated customers by the expense of purchasing a longer format for only one or two songs of interest. That in turn encouraged interest in file sharing software on the internet like Napster for single recordings, which began to undercut the music recording market.[19]
^ Spencer Drate 45 RPM: A Visual History of the Seven-Inch Record, Princeton Architectural Press, 2002, p.10
^ Jun, Yes Yeong (7 December 1995). "Gangsuji sing-geul-eumban chulsi-dan dugog sulog gagyeog-eun bissanpyeon" 강수지 싱글음반 출시-단 두곡 수록 가격은 비싼편 [Kang Sooji Single Album Release]. JoongAng Ilbo (in Korean). Retrieved 17 January 2019.
"Big Bang, singok 'Rujeo' 'Bebe' deureoboni..seulpeun gamseong chabunhan jungdokseong" 빅뱅, 신곡 '루저'·'베베' 들어보니..슬픈 감성+차분한 중독성
As a distinct release type, the single album developed during the CD era in the 1990s. Single albums, typically including about two or three songs, were marketed as a more affordable alternative to a full-length CD album.[22] The term "single album" is sometimes used to refer to a release that would simply be called a "single" in Western contexts, such as a 7-inch 45 rpm record released before the advent of downloadable music.
"OCC test charts reveal likely effects of rule changes". Music Week. 11 December 2006. Archived from the original on 18 September 2011. Retrieved 18 February 2010.
Another development of the 2000s was the popularity of mobile phone ringtones based on pop singles. In September 2007, Sony BMG announced that it would introduce a new type of CD single, called "ringles", for the 2007 holiday season. The format included three songs by an artist, plus a ringtone accessible from the user's computer. Sony announced plans to release 50 singles in October and November, and Universal Music Group expected to release somewhere between 10 and 20 titles.[20] In a reversal of this trend, a single has been released based on a ringtone itself: the Crazy Frog ringtone, which was a cult hit in Europe in 2004, was released as a mashup with "Axel F" in June 2005 amid a massive publicity campaign and subsequently hit No. 1 on the UK chart.
^ "Beatles Singles Discography". University of Delaware. Retrieved 29 March 2019.
The lightweight and inexpensive 45 rpm discs introduced by RCA were quickly popular and in the early 1950s all major US labels had begun manufacturing seven-inch singles.[10]
The term single is sometimes regarded as a misnomer since one record usually contains two songs: the A-side and B-side. In 1982, CBS marketed one-sided singles at a lower price than two-sided singles.[21]
Knopper, Steve (2009). Appetite for Self-Destruction: The Spectacular Crash of the Record Industry. Simon and Schuster. pp. 105–7.
Up until mid-1970s, British single releases were packaged in generic paper sleeves. Limited editions containing picture sleeves sold well around that period, so the number of UK singles packaged in picture sleeves increased thereafter.[4] In 1992, cassette and CD singles surpassed 7-inch vinyls.[5]
This page was last edited on 26 February 2023, at 23:19 (UTC).
In popular music, the commercial and artistic importance of the single (as compared to the EP or album) has varied over time, technological development, and according to the audience of particular artists and genres. Singles have generally been more important to artists who sell to the youngest purchasers of music (younger teenagers and pre-teens), who tend to have more limited financial resources.[6]
Spencer Drate 45 RPM: A Visual History of the Seven-Inch Record, Princeton Architectural Press, 2002, p.9
"Digital streams to count for Gold and Platinum songs". USA Today. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Single and EP Definitions on iTunes". Emubands.com. 22 April 2013. Retrieved 24 June 2016.
^ Kim, Mi-hwa (1 May 2005). "Big Bang, singok 'Rujeo' 'Bebe' deureoboni..seulpeun gamseong chabunhan jungdokseong" 빅뱅, 신곡 '루저'·'베베' 들어보니..슬픈 감성+차분한 중독성 [Listen to Big Bang's New Songs 'Loser' and 'Bae Bae': sad, emotional, relaxing, addictive] (in Korean). MTN [ko]. Retrieved 17 January 2019.
The inherent technical limitations of the gramophone disc defined the standard format for commercial recordings in the early 20th century. The relatively crude disc-cutting techniques of the time and the thickness of the needles used on record players limited the number of grooves per inch that could be inscribed on the disc surface and a high rotation speed was necessary to achieve acceptable recording and playback fidelity. 78 rpm was chosen as the standard because of the introduction of the electrically powered synchronous turntable motor in 1925, which ran at 3,600 rpm with a 46:1 gear ratio, resulting in a rotation speed of 78.3 rpm.
Thompson, Dave (2002). A Music Lover's Guide to Record Collecting. San Francisco: Music Player Group (United Entertainment Media). p. 3. ISBN 0-87930-713-7. LCCN 2002016095.
^ a b Britt, Bruce (10 August 1989). "The 45-rpm single will soon be history". Spokesman-Review. (Los Angeles Daily News). p. C4.
Wolf, Jessica (25 May 2003). "RIAA lauds DVD singles". Archived from the original on 10 September 2016. Retrieved 10 June 2016. (subscription required)
^ Knopper, Steve (2009). Appetite for Self-Destruction: The Spectacular Crash of the Record Industry. Simon and Schuster. pp. 105–7.
"The Official UK Charts Company : Info pack from The Official UK Charts Company" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 July 2011.
Britt, Bruce (10 August 1989). "The 45-rpm single will soon be history". Spokesman-Review. (Los Angeles Daily News). p. C4.
Christman, Ed (9 September 2007). "Music industry betting on 'ringle' format". Reuters. Retrieved 21 May 2008.
"Download Official UK Single Chart Rules - PDF" (PDF). The Official Chart Company. 2009. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 July 2011.
Jun, Yes Yeong (7 December 1995). "Gangsuji sing-geul-eumban chulsi-dan dugog sulog gagyeog-eun bissanpyeon" 강수지 싱글음반 출시-단 두곡 수록 가격은 비싼편 [Kang Sooji Single Album Release]. JoongAng Ilbo (in Korean). Retrieved 17 January 2019.
"RIAA Adds Digital Streams To Historic Gold & Platinum Awards - RIAA". Riaa.com. 6 May 2013. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
^ Osborne, Richard (2012). Vinyl: A History of the Analogue Record. Taylor & Francis. p. 139. ISBN 9781472434333. LCCN 2012021796.
The 7-inch 45 rpm record was released March 31, 1949, by RCA Victor as a smaller, more durable and higher-fidelity replacement for the 78 rpm shellac discs.[6] The first 45 rpm records were monaural, with recordings on both sides of the disc. As stereo recordings became popular in the 1960s, almost all 45 rpm records were produced in stereo by the early 1970s. Columbia Records, which had released the 33+1⁄3 rpm 12-inch vinyl LP in June 1948, also released 33+1⁄3 rpm 7-inch vinyl singles in March 1949, but they were soon eclipsed by the RCA Victor 45. The first regular production 45 rpm record pressed was "PeeWee the Piccolo": RCA Victor 47-0146 pressed December 7, 1948 at the Sherman Avenue plant in Indianapolis; R.O. Price, plant manager.[7]
This 1990s metal album–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Five Smokin' Tracks from Lit - Lit". Allmusic.
This page was last edited on 15 November 2021, at 18:19 (UTC).
Five Smokin' Tracks from Lit is an EP by the rock band Lit. It was released on December 10, 1996 on the Malicious Vinyl label.
All tracks are written by A. Jay Popoff and Jeremy Popoff, except where noted.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Five Smokin' Tracks from Lit - Lit". Allmusic.
Lewis, Randy (October 7, 2011). "RCA is Slimming Down for the Holidays". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved June 24, 2015.
Mumbai Moody, Nekesa (April 18, 2008). "Clive Davis replaced by Barry Weiss as BMG head". USA Today. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
^ "[LISTEN] SZA's 'Good Days' Is Her Second New Song Of 2020". UPROXX. December 25, 2020. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
Dawson, Jim and, Propes, Steve (October 1, 2003). 45 Rpm: The History, Heroes and Villains of a Pop Music Revolution. Backbeat Books. p. 37. ISBN 0879307579. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
In addition to releasing successful albums by Bryson Tiller, Alicia Keys, Fousheé' and Pentatonix in 2020, RCA had #1 records with Doja Cat's "Say So" feat. Nicki Minaj; Miley Cyrus' "Plastic Hearts" and Chris Brown & Young Thug's "Go Crazy". Brockhampton's single "Sugar" was certified platinum,[51] and singles by Flo Milli[52] and Latto (formerly known as "Mulatto") were certified gold.[53] Both Doja Cat and Kaytranada received multiple Grammy nominations, includingBest New Artist, H.E.R. received her 13th Grammy nomination, and the Strokes album The New Abnormal was nominated for Best Rock Album. Koffee signed with RCA just after she became the first woman and the youngest person to win the Reggae Album of the Year Grammy.[54][55] In June 2020, the label partnered with the Human Rights Campaign to present the 2020 Pride Benefit Concert, a livestream supporting LGBTQ equality in June. RCA artists including Isaac Dunbar, Cam, and Citizen Queen performed.[56] SZA released the single "Good Days" on December 25.[57]
^ Baumgartner, Bradley (May 23, 1998). "Retooled RCA Is Once Again A Hitmaker". Billboard. Retrieved August 16, 2015.
"[LISTEN] SZA's 'Good Days' Is Her Second New Song Of 2020". UPROXX. December 25, 2020. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
"RCA Records Promotes Mark Pitts to President, John Fleckenstein to COO"
"Diskery Goes 33 in March To Service Entire Market; 45 Promotion in High Gear"
^ "Richard III (1955) – Soundtrack details". SoundtrackCollector.com. May 13, 2007. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
^ Holloway, Lynette (November 20, 2002). "BMG Buys J Records and Shuffles Executives". The New York Times. Retrieved August 17, 2015.
"Deal with RCA/JIVE Brings Music Stars to BAT's Endorsement Platform". The Business Journals (Via PR Newswire). The Business Journals (Via PR Newswire). October 12, 2010. Retrieved August 19, 2015. RCA/JIVE Label Group is comprised of RCA Music Group (J Records, Arista Records, RCA Records, Polo Grounds, and Battery Records) and JIVE Label Group (Jive Records, LaFace Records, Volcano Entertainment, Battery Records and Verity Gospel Music Group).
Crunchyroll, LLC (co-owned with Sony Pictures)Crunchyroll EMEACrunchyroll SASCrunchyroll SACrunchyroll GmbHKazéCrunchyroll FilmsCrunchyroll StudiosCrunchyroll Games, LLCCrunchyroll UK and IrelandMadman AnimeRight StufCrunchyroll
^ "63rd Annual GRAMMY Awards". GRAMMY.com. December 15, 2020. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
Bryan, Martin F. Report to the Phonothèque Québécoise on the Search for Archival Documents of Berliner Gram-O-Phone Co., Victor Talking Machine Co., R.C.A. Victor Co. (Montréal), 1899–1972. Further augmented ed. Montréal: Phonothèque Québécoise, 1994. 19, [1] p.
During the mid-1980s, RCA Records operated at a deficit, due in part to "overpriced deals" with pop stars including Kenny Rogers and Diana Ross. In 1986, the label bought back $25 million in unsold albums and lost $35 million during the fiscal year 1987. As a partial corrective, a decentralized style of management which allowed RCA Records to function as a free-standing entrepreneurial business was implemented for 1988. Buziak drastically cut the RCA roster from around 40 acts to 11, and began to rebuild it with a focus on developing artists, including artists acquired through marketing and distribution agreements with Beggars Banquet Records, a British punk rock label, and Jive Records, whose roster included Schooly D, Kool Moe Dee, and DJ Jazzy Jeff & the Fresh Prince.
Phillips, Chuck (March 28, 1995). "Company Town: BMG Names Insider to Head RCA Records". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved August 16, 2015.
New York Times staff (August 9, 1990). "New Chief at RCA Records". The New York Times. Retrieved August 15, 2015.
Farley, Rebecca. "#MuteRKelly Got Live & Personal At A Rally In New York City". www.refinery29.com. Retrieved December 12, 2022.
Holloway, Lynette (November 20, 2002). "BMG Buys J Records and Shuffles Executives". The New York Times. Retrieved August 17, 2015.
RCA Records is an American record label currently owned by Sony Music Entertainment, a subsidiary of Sony Corporation of America. It is one of Sony Music's four flagship labels, alongside RCA's former long-time rival Columbia Records; also Arista Records, and Epic Records. The label has released multiple genres of music, including pop, classical, rock, hip hop, afrobeat, electronic, R&B, blues, jazz, and country. Its name is derived from the initials of its defunct parent company, the Radio Corporation of America[3] (RCA). RCA Records was fully acquired by Bertelsmann in 1987, making it a part of Bertelsmann Music Group (BMG) and became a part of Sony BMG Music Entertainment after the 2004 merger of BMG and Sony; it was acquired by the latter in 2008, after the dissolution of Sony/BMG and the restructuring of Sony Music. RCA Records is the corporate successor of the Victor Talking Machine Company, founded in 1901, making it the second-oldest record label in American history, after sister label Columbia Records, founded in 1889.
Sanjek, Russell (July 28, 1998). American Popular Music and Its Business: The First Four Hundred Years ... London: Oxford University Press. p. 118. ISBN 9780195043112. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
Jeffrey, Don (April 8, 1995). "Jamieson Named RCA President After 7 Month Search". Billboard. Retrieved August 15, 2015.
RCA Victor Label Group: The RCA Victor Label Group consisted of the RCA Victor, Windham Hill Records and Bluebird Records labels.
^ Haring, Bruce (May 13, 1993). "RCA prexy gives Nipper something to bark about". Variety. Retrieved August 15, 2015.
In May 2011, former Universal Music Group CEO Doug Morris was appointed chairman of Sony Music Entertainment. Focused on A&R, Morris named Peter Edge, president of A&R at RCA and J Records, chairman and CEO of RCA Music Group. Tom Corson was named president and COO.[41] On the seventh of October of that year, the Jive, Arista and J imprints were altogether permanently merged into RCA. As a result, the RCA Music Group was then disbanded and RCA was reinstated as a standalone label under the Sony Music umbrella. Following the shutdown of the three labels, a majority of various artists from the rosters of Jive, Arista and/or J were shifted to release future material under RCA.[42][43][44][45]
"Brockhampton Finally Scored Its Hit Single -- And Shia LaBeouf Helped Make It Possible"
In 1983, Arista Records owner Bertelsmann sold 50% of Arista to RCA. In 1985, Bertelsmann and RCA Records formed a joint venture called RCA/Ariola International.[25] The following year, RCA Corporation was acquired by General Electric (GE) and it sold its 50% interest in RCA Records to its partner Bertelsmann. The company was renamed BMG Music for Bertelsmann Music Group.[26] BMG revived the old RCA "lightning bolt" logo that was retired in 1968 to differentiate RCA Records from the other RCA divisions, which GE either liquidated, sold, or closed. BMG also revived the "RCA Victor" label for Red Seal, Broadway and soundtrack releases and other musical genres outside of rock, pop and country music. In 1986, Bob Buziak, formerly an artist manager, was appointed president of the label.
In September 1931, RCA Victor introduced the first 33.mw-parser-output .frac{white-space:nowrap}.mw-parser-output .frac .num,.mw-parser-output .frac .den{font-size:80%;line-height:0;vertical-align:super}.mw-parser-output .frac .den{vertical-align:sub}.mw-parser-output .sr-only{border:0;clip:rect(0,0,0,0);height:1px;margin:-1px;overflow:hidden;padding:0;position:absolute;width:1px}1⁄3 rpm records sold to the public, calling them "Program Transcriptions". These used a shallower and more closely spaced implementation of the large "standard groove" found on contemporary 78 rpm records, rather than the "microgroove" used for post-World War II 331⁄3 rpm "LP" (long play) records. The format was a commercial failure, partly because the new Victrolas with two-speed turntables designed to play these records were exorbitantly priced, the least expensive model retailing for $395.00 in the depths of the Great Depression. The format was abandoned by 1933, and two-speed turntables were no longer offered, but some Program Transcriptions lingered in the Victor record catalog until the end of the 1930s.[5]
By the end of the fiscal year 1988, RCA Records had gross revenue of $236 million in the United States, its most profitable year to date. Bruce Hornsby's The Way It Is sold more than three million albums, and the soundtrack for the film Dirty Dancing, which cost RCA $200,000 to produce, sold 15.6 million copies in less than two years. Its follow-up, More Dirty Dancing, composed of song tracks which had been left out of the first album, was produced for $80,000 and went on to sell more than 5.6 million. Among the most successful acts for RCA Records during the 1980s were the Eurythmics, Love and Rockets, Joshua Perahia, Rick Astley, Dolly Parton, Juice Newton, and Bucks Fizz.[27][28]
"British RCA to Cut Decca Ltd. Tie In U.K., Eire & Form Own Set-Up"
Black Seal Music: A short-lived imprint of RCA Records that released indie rock music. Artists who recorded on Black Seal include Albert Hammond, Jr., Audrye Sessions, and Cory Chisel and the Wandering Sons.
Garrity, Brian (December 25, 2004). "Music Biz Gets a Makeover". Billboard. Retrieved August 18, 2015.
Edward, David;et al. "RCA Program Transcription Album Discography (1931–33)". bsnpubs.com. Both Sides Now Publications. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
Standard "Blue Ring" RCA Victor label used on early US CDs from 1983 thru1987
RCA Victor: The former name of RCA Records until late 1968. It is currently active as a label that currently distributes electronic, rock and soundtrack albums, such as The Sound of Music soundtrack, Jose Feliciano's Feliz Navidad, the European release of The Fashion by the Fashion, American releases of albums by Imogen Heap.Some re-releases of albums by Elvis Presley and others issued prior to 1968 list the label as "RCA Victor".
"Brockhampton Finally Scored Its Hit Single -- And Shia LaBeouf Helped Make It Possible". Billboard. February 6, 2020. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
RCA's standard black Victor label used on most vinyl LPs issued in the Americas from mid 1976 to 1989; 45 rpm records used a similar label
^ Marion, JC (2005). "Label "X"". Jamm Upp. 2 (36).
^ Grover, Ron (August 6, 2008). "Sony Buys the Rest of Ailing Sony BMG". Businessweek. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
^ Farley, Rebecca. "#MuteRKelly Got Live & Personal At A Rally In New York City". www.refinery29.com. Retrieved December 12, 2022.
^ "Iconic signs at Nashville's historic Studio A return after nearly 50 years". The Tennessean. Retrieved May 25, 2019.
"RCA (Radio Corporation of America)". EHTW.org. Engingeering and Technology History Wiki. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
^ "John Fleckenstein and Joe Riccitelli Upped to Co-Presidents at RCA Records". Variety. January 19, 2018. Retrieved February 5, 2018.
^ Hough, Clint. "Bringing on back the good times". Sixties City. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
"Iconic signs at Nashville's historic Studio A return after nearly 50 years"
Grover, Ron (August 6, 2008). "Sony Buys the Rest of Ailing Sony BMG". Businessweek. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
"501 N Lasalle St · 501 N Lasalle St, Indianapolis, IN 46201". Google.com. Retrieved October 6, 2021.
^ "Diskery Goes 33 in March To Service Entire Market; 45 Promotion in High Gear". Billboard. January 7, 1950. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Cole, Tom (September 30, 2010). "Why Records Are 12 Inches Wide". NPR.org. Retrieved July 2, 2019.
"Taming Of The Shrew, The  – Various Artists : Read reviews and compare prices at Ciao.co.uk". Cd.ciao.co.uk. July 26, 1999. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
^ "Rising global superstar Tate McRae releases new track & music video 'rubberband'". Pop.inquirer.net. January 26, 2021. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
^ Halperin, Shirley (November 17, 2011). "Avril Lavigne Shifts to Epic Records, Reunites With L.A. Reid". Billboard. Retrieved January 8, 2012.{{cite magazine}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Similarly, RCA Victor also made several studio cast recording albums, including a Lerner and Loewe series with Jan Peerce, Jane Powell, and Robert Merrill, as well as a 1963 album of excerpts from George Gershwin's Porgy and Bess, with its 1952 revival leads, Leontyne Price and William Warfield, but a different supporting cast. They also issued two studio cast versions of Show Boat, one with Robert Merrill, Patrice Munsel, and Rise Stevens in 1956, and the other with Howard Keel, Anne Jeffreys, and Gogi Grant in 1958. Unfortunately, contrary to the way the show is written, both of these Show Boat albums featured all-white casts, reflecting the era of racial segregation.
All You Need Is Ears: The Inside Personal Story of the Genius who Created The Beatles
"John Fleckenstein and Joe Riccitelli Upped to Co-Presidents at RCA Records". Variety. January 19, 2018. Retrieved February 12, 2018.
^ Sanjek, Russell (July 28, 1998). American Popular Music and Its Business: The First Four Hundred Years ... London: Oxford University Press. p. 118. ISBN 9780195043112. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
During the first half of the decade, RCA released platinum and multi-platinum records by artists including A$AP Rocky, Cage the Elephant, Chris Brown, Kelly Clarkson, Miley Cyrus, D'Angelo, Dave Matthews Band, Foo Fighters, G-Eazy, Jennifer Hudson, R. Kelly, Kesha, Khalid, Alicia Keys, Kings of Leon, Miguel, Pentatonix, P!nk, Pitbull, Shakira, Sia, Britney Spears, Bryson Tiller, Justin Timberlake, T-Pain, and Tinashe. Since 2012, the label has released music by artists including: Kevin Abstract, A$AP Ferg, Becky G, Bleachers, Brockhampton, Bryson Tiller, Cam, G-Eazy, Childish Gambino, Martin Garrix, H.E.R., Normani, Kaytranada, Khalid, Kygo, Tate McRae, Mark Ronson, Sasha Sloan, Jazmine Sullivan, SZA, ZAYN.[46]
In 2006, Sony BMG merged its Broadway music labels, including RCA Victor, to the new Masterworks Broadway Records. All of these recordings are now on Masterworks Broadway Records, which has remastered and reissued many of these albums.
3Criticisms and controversies											Toggle Criticisms and controversies subsection																					3.1Kenny Rogers																											3.2Kelly Clarkson																											3.3Avril Lavigne																											3.4R. Kelly																											3.5Other notable events
^ Billboard (October 6, 1958). "Speed and Quality Go Together at RCA Records" (advertisement). Vol. 70, no. 40. p. 26. Retrieved August 19, 2015 – via Google Books. {{cite magazine}}: Cite magazine requires |magazine= (help)
"Rising global superstar Tate McRae releases new track & music video 'rubberband'"
^ Halperin, Shirley (October 7, 2011). "RCA's Peter Edge, Tom Corson on the Shuttering of Jive, J and Arista". Billboard.biz. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
"Tunji Balogun launches label JV with RCA Records, as he's promoted to EVP of A&R". Music Business Worldwide. April 9, 2018. Retrieved May 25, 2019.
"British RCA to Cut Decca Ltd. Tie In U.K., Eire & Form Own Set-Up". Billboard. November 4, 1967. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
"McCullers, Carson, (Mrs Carson Smith McCullers), (19 Feb. 1917–29 Sept. 1967), Author"
The edition of Billboard magazine dated April 11, 1953, announced a new RCA Victor subsidiary label, its first to use independent distribution and was nameless when it was first revealed. For the lack of any better designation, Billboard chose to refer to the new, unnamed label in the story as Label "X"; the new label began to hire staffers and decide on a direction, and the name stuck until 1955. RCA Victor officially announced the formation of label "X" on April 20, 1953. Groove was an R&B specialty label founded in 1954 and folded into Vik in 1957;[14] the Vik label was discontinued the following year.
In the spring of 1946, "RCA Victor" replaced "Victor" on labels for shellac 78 rpm singles. In 1949, RCA Victor introduced the 7-inch 45 rpm micro-grooved vinylite record, marketed simply as the "45". The new format, which had been under development for several years, was originally intended to replace 78 rpm discs.[10] By the time RCA Victor belatedly unveiled it, the 45 was now competing with the 10-inch and 12-inch 331⁄3 rpm microgroove vinyl "LP" (Long Play) discs introduced by arch-rival Columbia Records in the early summer of 1948. In heavy promotion, RCA Victor sold compact, inexpensive add-on and stand-alone units that played the 45 rpm format exclusively. At first, RCA Victor's 45s were issued on colored vinyl according to the musical genre: contemporary pop music on black vinyl (47-XXXX series), prestigious Broadway musicals and operettas on "midnight blue" vinyl (52-xxxx series), classical music on red vinyl (49-xxxx series), country and polka on green (48-xxxx series), children's fare on yellow (also in the 47-xxxx series), rhythm and blues on orange or cerise (50-xxxx series), and international on light blue (51-xxxx series). This array of colors complicated the production process, and the practice was soon discontinued, all records becoming black. Yellow and red held on until about 1952. The first 45 rpm record manufactured was "PeeWee the Piccolo" RCA Victor 47-0147 pressed December 7, 1948 at the Sherman Drive plant in Indianapolis. The use of vinyl, which was much more expensive than the gritty shellac compound normally used for 78s, was actually cheaper because of the smaller diameter and greatly reduced bulk of the new records, which required very little raw material. The smaller, lightweight discs were also more economical to store and ship.[11]
^ Hoffman, Frank (2004). Encyclopedia of Recorded Sound. Routledge. p. 258. ISBN 1135949506.
RCA ignored allegations of sexual misconduct by R. Kelly,[68][69] which included running a violent cult, wherein he held teenage individuals hostage in exchange for sexual favors.[68] Kelly continued to release music for RCA through 2018, when pressure from the Mute R. Kelly campaign mounted against him.[70] In January 2019, following the broadcast of Lifetime's documentary Surviving R. Kelly, his contract was terminated by RCA.[71][72]
In 2002, BMG fully acquired J Records, which it had founded in 2000 as a joint venture with Clive Davis. Davis was then named chairman of RCA Records and J Records under the auspices of a new entity, the RCA Music Group, which included RCA Records, J, and Arista Records.[35] In 2004, Sony and BMG merged their music divisions to create Sony BMG, and in 2007, the RCA Music Group was rebranded as the BMG Label Group.[36] In 2006, Sony BMG merged its former Broadway music and classical labels, including Red Seal and Gold Seal, to Sony Masterworks. Legacy Recordings, Sony Music Entertainment's catalog division, reissues classic albums for RCA.
"501 N Lasalle St · 501 N Lasalle St, Indianapolis, IN 46201"
In April 1970, RCA Records announced the first quadraphonic 4-channel 8-track tape cartridges ("Quad-8", later called just Q8). RCA began releasing quadraphonic vinyl recordings in the United States in February 1973, in the CD-4 format developed by its former subsidiary, the Victor Company of Japan (JVC), and made commercially practical by Quadracast Systems Inc. (QSI). RCA's trade name became "Quadradisc". The CD-4 format required a special cartridge that had a ±1 db frequency response out to 50 kHz, a CD-4 demodulator which decoded the difference between the front and rear channels from a 30 kHz subcarrier, four separate amplifier channels, and four separate speakers for the left and right front and left and right rear. Both the CD-4 Quadradisc and Quad-8 tape cartridge systems were true discrete 4–4–4 quadraphonic systems. Columbia Records introduced a quadraphonic matrix system, SQ, which required a decoder, 4-channel amplifier and the four speakers. The SQ system was referred to as a 4–2–4 matrix system. The Warner Music Group labels also adopted Quadradisc, but the format never became popular, and both RCA and Columbia abandoned quadraphonic recording by 1976; some of the RCA sessions were later remastered for Dolby encoding (same as Peter Scheiber's original matrix system) and released on CD. This included Charles Gerhardt's acclaimed series of RCA Red Seal albums devoted to classic film scores by Erich Wolfgang Korngold, Alfred Newman, Dimitri Tiomkin, Max Steiner, Franz Waxman, and others, performed by the National Philharmonic Orchestra and recorded in London's Kingsway Hall.
During World War II, ties between RCA Victor and its Japanese affiliate Victor Company of Japan (Nippon Victor) were severed. JVC's record company is known today as Victor Entertainment and still retains the Nipper/His Master's Voice trademark for use in Japan.
^ Penndorf, Ronald (1938–2014). "RCA Victor Red Seal Labelography (19501976)". Recollections (blog). Fine Vintage LPs and Journal of Recorded Music. Berkeley, California: Ronald Penndorf (editor & publisher). Archived from the original on January 11, 2012. Retrieved January 8, 2012 – via Wayback Machine.
"[LISTEN] SZA's 'Good Days' Is Her Second New Song Of 2020"
"Audio Player". 92.5 THE BEAT Montreal's Best Music Variety Radio Station. Archived from the original (MP3 (audio)) on May 21, 2013. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
Grady, Constance (January 18, 2019). "R. Kelly's music label has reportedly dropped him". Vox. Retrieved December 12, 2022.
"RCA Records promotes Keith Naftaly to President, A&R – Music Business Worldwide". Music Business Worldwide. May 14, 2018. Retrieved May 14, 2018.
RCA: Now Elvis rocked for Bertelsmann, too (PDF), Bertelsmann Worldwide Media, archived from the original (PDF) on May 14, 2011, retrieved June 22, 2010
"RCA Records Cuts Ties With R. Kelly Amid Sexual Abuse Allegations"
^ "RCA Records promotes Keith Naftaly to President, A&R – Music Business Worldwide". Music Business Worldwide. May 14, 2018. Retrieved May 14, 2018.
After Kenny Rogers left RCA Records in 1987, he accused the label of trying to ruin his career. Rogers had signed to RCA in 1982 for an advance sum of $20 million (the largest deal ever in country music up to that time) when Bob Summer was head of the label.[61]
^ Benjamin, Jeff (March 3, 2015). "9 Times Kelly Clarkson Kept it Real". Fuse. Retrieved August 8, 2015.
During the early part of the Depression, RCA Victor made a number of attempts to create a successful cheap label to compete with the "dime store labels" (Perfect, Oriole, Banner, Melotone, etc.). The first was the short-lived "Timely Tunes" label in 1931 sold at Montgomery Ward. Bluebird Records was created in 1932 as a sub-label of RCA Victor. It was originally an 8-inch record with a dark blue label, alongside an 8-inch Electradisk label (sold at Woolworth's). Neither were a success. In 1933, RCA Victor reintroduced Bluebird and Electradisk as a standard 10-inch label (Bluebird's label was redesigned, and it became known as the 'buff' label). Another cheap label, Sunrise, was produced (although nobody seems to know for whom it was produced, as Sunrise records are exceptionally rare today). The same musical couplings were issued on all three labels and the Bluebird label still survives today, eight decades after Electradisk and Sunrise were discontinued. RCA Victor also produced records for Montgomery Ward label during the 1930s.
^ Passman, Donald. "Pressing & Distribution Deals". taxi.com. Taxi: The World's Leading Independent A&R Company. Archived from the original on December 29, 2017. Retrieved December 20, 2015.
"John Fleckenstein and Joe Riccitelli Upped to Co-Presidents at RCA Records". Variety. January 19, 2018. Retrieved February 5, 2018.
In late 1969, RCA Records introduced a very thin, lightweight vinyl record known as Dynaflex. This type of pressing claimed to overcome warping and other problems encountered with conventional thicker LP pressings, but it had a similarly controversial reputation, being derided by some as “Dynawarp” and precursor of the Floppy Disk. By the late 1970's, RCA abandoned Dynaflex and returned to making standard vinyl records.[24]
In April 2008, former Zomba Label Group president and CEO Barry Weiss was appointed chairman of the BMG Label Group, and Davis was named chief creative officer of Sony BMG worldwide. In October, Sony acquired BMG's 50% ownership and the BMG Label Group was merged with the Jive Label Group to establish the RCA/Jive Label Group. It included RCA, Jive, J, Arista, Polo Grounds, LaFace Records, Volcano Entertainment, Hitz Committee, Battery Records, and the Verity Gospel Music Group.[37][38][39]
RCA-distributed labels: A&M Records,[75] Colpix Records, Colgems Records, Chart Records, Calendar/Kirshner, Chelsea Records, Grunt Records, Windstar Records, Midland International, Loud Records, 20th Century Fox Records, Planet Records, Total Experience Records, Wooden Nickel Records, Millennium Records, Duble Kick Entertainment and Tortoise International Records (Detroit)
^ "501 N Lasalle St · 501 N Lasalle St, Indianapolis, IN 46201". Google.com. Retrieved October 6, 2021.
^ Hennessey, Mike (September 20, 1986). "RCA Deal Gives Bertelsmann Multinational Label Ranking". Billboard. Vol. 98, no. 3B. Nielsen Business Media, Inc. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
Hit Men: Power Brokers and Fast Money Inside the Music Business
Szalai, Doug (August 8, 2011). "Peter Edge Named CEO of Sony's RCA Music Group". Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
^ "Gold & Platinum – RIAA". RIAA. Retrieved February 12, 2018.
The decade marked a period during which RCA Records had notable success in the pop genre, with Christina Aguilera, Kesha, Pink, Kelly Clarkson and Pitbull scoring multiple #1 hits on the Billboard Hot 100 charts.[40]
Effective in 1957, EMI/HMV ended its 55-year association with RCA Victor, after EMI's acquisition of Capitol Records in 1955.[17][18] Capitol then became the main distributor for EMI recordings in the Americas; Decca Records became the manufacturer and distributor for RCA Victor in the United Kingdom, using the RCA lightning bolt logo, instead of the Nipper/His Master's Voice trademark for which EMI held the rights to in the U.K. and Europe.RCA set up its own British manufacturing and distribution in 1969.[19][20]
Saint-Vil, Sweenie (August 18, 2020). "Mulatto enters Billboard Hot 100 for the first time ever". REVOLT. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
"Tunji Balogun launches label JV with RCA Records, as he's promoted to EVP of A&R"
Label of an RCA Victor 45 rpm record from mid 1950s to 1964
In 2015, RCA Records reinstated its classic 1968 space-age 'RCA' styled logo after utilizing the old lightning bolt logo since 1987. The lightning bolt logo is still used by RCA's Nashville division.[47]
45 Rpm: The History, Heroes and Villains of a Pop Music Revolution
Billboard staff (August 8, 2011). "Peter Edge Appointed CEO of RCA Music Group". Billboard.biz. Archived from the original on January 16, 2013. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
Du Lac, J. Freedom (June 26, 2007). "'My December': Kelly Clarkson, Striking Out On Her Own". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 22, 2015.
^ "5 Highlights From RCA Records & Human Rights Campaign's Pride Benefit Concert". Billboard. June 30, 2020. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
"63rd Annual GRAMMY Awards". GRAMMY.com. December 15, 2020. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
On October 6, 1953, RCA Victor held experimental stereophonic sessions in New York City's Manhattan Center with Leopold Stokowski conducting a group of New York City musicians in performances of George Enescu's Roumanian Rhapsody No. 1 and the waltz from Tchaikovsky's opera Eugene Onegin. There were additional stereo tests in December, again in the Manhattan Center, this time with Pierre Monteux conducting members of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. In February 1954, RCA Victor made its first commercial stereophonic recordings, taping the Boston Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Charles Münch, in a performance of The Damnation of Faust by Hector Berlioz. This began a practice of simultaneously recording orchestras with both stereophonic and monaural equipment. Other early stereo recordings were made of Toscanini's final NBC concerts (never officially issued) and Guido Cantelli respectively, with the NBC Symphony Orchestra; the Boston Pops Orchestra under Arthur Fiedler; and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra under Fritz Reiner. Initially, RCA used RT-21 quarter-inch tape recorders (which ran at 30 inches per second), wired to mono mixers, with Neumann U-47 cardioid and M-49/50 omnidirectional microphones. Then they switched to an Ampex 300–3 one-half inch machine, running at 15 inches per second (which was later increased to 30 inches per second). These recordings were initially issued in 1955 on special stereophonic reel-to-reel tapes and then, beginning in 1958, on vinyl LPs with the "Living Stereo" logo. RCA has continued to reissue many of these recordings on CD.[15] Another 1953 project for RCA was converting the acoustically superior building Webster Hall into its main East Coast recording studio. RCA operated this studio venue from 1953 to 1968.
In August 1990 Buziak was replaced by Joe Galante, who had been the president of RCA Records Nashville division. The roster was cut once again and the A&R department was restructured. Along with the launch of BNA Records and the expansion of the urban music division, these initiatives would prove to be positive, but RCA was unsuccessful under Galante, ranking 10th in market share in 1995.[29][30][31][32] Galante returned to head the Nashville division and was replaced in March 1995 by the president of RCA Records Canada, Bob Jamieson.[33] Jamieson overhauled RCA, eliminating a layer of middle management and retooling the label's marketing department. The A&R department was again restructured and the artist roster cut.
Finally acknowledging the success of Columbia's LP format and fearful of losing further market share, RCA Victor began issuing LPs itself.[12][13] Among the first RCA Victor LPs released in 1950 was a performance of Gaîté Parisienne by Jacques Offenbach, played by Arthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops Orchestra, which had actually been recorded in Boston's Symphony Hall on June 20, 1947; it was given the catalogue number LM-1001. Non-classical albums were issued with the prefix "LPM". When RCA Victor later issued classical stereo albums (in 1958), they used the prefix "LSC". Non-classical stereo albums were issued with the prefix "LSP". RCA utilized these catalog prefixes until 1973.
"Avril Lavigne Shifts to Epic Records, Reunites With L.A. Reid"
In November 2010, Avril Lavigne stated that the long delay of her fourth album, Goodbye Lullaby, was due to "a bunch of bureaucratic BS" related to RCA.[65] The album was ultimately released in March 2011. In October 2011, Lavigne confirmed that she had left RCA and signed with sister label Epic Records.[66][67]
^ Grady, Constance (January 18, 2019). "R. Kelly's music label has reportedly dropped him". Vox. Retrieved December 12, 2022.
AniplexAniplex of AmericaA-1 PicturesCloverWorksCrunchyroll, LLC (co-owned with Sony Pictures)Crunchyroll EMEACrunchyroll SASCrunchyroll SACrunchyroll GmbHKazéCrunchyroll FilmsCrunchyroll StudiosCrunchyroll Games, LLCCrunchyroll UK and IrelandMadman AnimeRight StufCrunchyroll
^ Newman, Melinda (November 28, 1992). "Novik Knows the Score in RCA's New Talent Drive". Billboard. Retrieved August 15, 2015.
^ Garrity, Brian (December 25, 2004). "Music Biz Gets a Makeover". Billboard. Retrieved August 18, 2015.
From the label's beginnings in 1902, and intensifying through the 1940s and 1950s, RCA Victor was in direct competition with Columbia Records. A number of recordings were made with the NBC Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Arturo Toscanini; sometimes RCA Victor utilized recordings of broadcast concerts (Toscanini had been recording for the label since the days of acoustic recordings, and RCA Victor had been recording the NBC Symphony since its creation in 1937). After Toscanini retired in the spring of 1954, the NBC Symphony was reorganized later that year as the Symphony of the Air. The orchestra, while no longer connected to NBC, continued to record for RCA Victor, as well as other labels, usually conducted by Leopold Stokowski. RCA Victor also released a number of recordings with the RCA Victor Symphony Orchestra, which was usually drawn from either Philadelphia or New York musicians, as well as members of the Symphony of the Air, and the orchestra of the Metropolitan Opera. By the late 1950s, RCA Victor had fewer high prestige orchestras under contract than Columbia had: RCA Victor recorded the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the Boston Symphony Orchestra, and the Boston Pops, whereas Columbia had the Cleveland Orchestra, the Philadelphia Orchestra, and the New York Philharmonic Orchestra under contracts.
^ Sir George Martin; Jeremy Hornsby (October 15, 1994). All You Need Is Ears: The Inside Personal Story of the Genius who Created The Beatles. St. Martin's Press. pp. 84–. ISBN 978-0-312-11482-4.
^ "Deal with RCA/JIVE Brings Music Stars to BAT's Endorsement Platform". The Business Journals (Via PR Newswire). The Business Journals (Via PR Newswire). October 12, 2010. Retrieved August 19, 2015. RCA/JIVE Label Group is comprised of RCA Music Group (J Records, Arista Records, RCA Records, Polo Grounds, and Battery Records) and JIVE Label Group (Jive Records, LaFace Records, Volcano Entertainment, Battery Records and Verity Gospel Music Group).
^ Halperin, Shirley (October 7, 2011). "RCA Execs Confirm Jive and Arista Labels Shut Down". Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved June 24, 2015.
Haring, Bruce (May 13, 1993). "RCA prexy gives Nipper something to bark about". Variety. Retrieved August 15, 2015.
"John Fleckenstein and Joe Riccitelli Upped to Co-Presidents at RCA Records"
^ a b "RCA Records Promotes Mark Pitts to President, John Fleckenstein to COO". Billboard. January 14, 2021. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
"RCA Records Cuts Ties With R. Kelly Amid Sexual Abuse Allegations". www.wbur.org. Retrieved December 12, 2022.
RCA Records (Italy): A division of Sony Music Italy. Founded as RCA Italiana in 1949. It was closed in 1987 and reactivated in 2006.
^ Szalai, Doug (August 8, 2011). "Peter Edge Named CEO of Sony's RCA Music Group". Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
^ New York Times staff (August 9, 1990). "New Chief at RCA Records". The New York Times. Retrieved August 15, 2015.
Halperin, Shirley (November 17, 2011). "Avril Lavigne Shifts to Epic Records, Reunites With L.A. Reid". Billboard. Retrieved January 8, 2012.{{cite magazine}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
In the summer of 2007, Kelly Clarkson and Clive Davis, then head of Sony BMG, feuded publicly regarding the direction of her album My December, the follow-up to Clarkson's multi-platinum album, Breakaway. Clarkson wrote the songs on My December, "showcasing her own songwriting on darker, edgier rock-oriented fare", and Davis insisted Clarkson work with hired hitmakers, as she had previously, on "polished, radio-friendly songs". Clarkson refused to change the album, and it was released in June 2007. It has since been certified platinum.[62][63][64]
Billboard (October 6, 1958). "Speed and Quality Go Together at RCA Records" (advertisement). Vol. 70, no. 40. p. 26. Retrieved August 19, 2015 – via Google Books. {{cite magazine}}: Cite magazine requires |magazine= (help)
In January 2021, Mark Pitts was appointed president of RCA Records and John Fleckenstein was named chief operating officer.[58]Jazmine Sullivan's Heaux Tales hit #1 on the Billboard R&B albums chart.[59] Tate McRae's "You Broke Me First" (stylized as "you broke me first") was quadruple platinum in Ireland, double platinum in Canada, Mexico and New Zealand, and platinum in the US, UK, Australia, Finland, France, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden. She was #1 on the Billboard emerging artist chart.[60]
RCA Red Seal Records: The RCA Red Seal classical music label is now part of Sony Masterworks.
^ "RCA Victor". elvispresleymuseum. Archived from the original on June 11, 2017. Retrieved May 2, 2017.
From 1942 to 1944, RCA Victor was seriously impacted by the American Federation of Musicians recording ban. Virtually all union musicians in the US and Canada were forbidden from making recordings during the period. One of the few exceptions was the eventual release of recorded radio broadcast performances from the NBC Symphony Orchestra conducted by Arturo Toscanini. However, RCA Victor lost the Philadelphia Orchestra during this period; the orchestra's contract with RCA Victor expired during the strike and when Columbia Records settled with the union before RCA, Eugene Ormandy and the Philadelphians signed a new contract with Columbia and began recording in 1944. Ormandy and the Philadelphia Orchestra would not return to RCA until 1968.
RCA Victor marketed the 45 as a direct replacement for 10-inch and 12-inch 78 rpm records, which typically played for about three and four minutes per side respectively. The company also released some "extended play" (EP) 45s with playing times up to 7 minutes per side, primarily for some vocal collections and light classical selections, as typified by an Arthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops Orchestra disc featuring Tchaikovsky's Marche Slave and Ketèlbey's In a Persian Market. Boxed sets of four to six 45s were issued, each set providing about the same amount of music as one LP. (An extreme case of these boxed sets was the complete recording of the opera Carmen, featuring Risë Stevens and conducted by Fritz Reiner, which consisted of sixteen 45 rpm discs.) In the case of operas, symphonies and other complete recordings of classical music, there was an interruption every four minutes as one record side ended and another was started up. These disruptive "side breaks", a nuisance long familiar to listeners of album sets of classical and operatic 78 rpm records, were minimized by an extremely fast automatic record-changing mechanism that was a core feature of RCA Victor's 45 players. Thanks in large degree to RCA Victor's massive five million dollar advertising campaign, the 45 became the preferred speed for pop music singles, overtaking U.S. sales of the same material on 78s by 1954, but Columbia's LP prevailed as the format for classical music and convenient one-disc "album" collections of eight or more pop songs. RCA Victor finally bowed to the inevitable and announced its intention to issue LPs in January 1950.
^ Nielsen Business Media, Inc. (March 17, 1956). Billboard. Nielsen Business Media, Inc. pp. 14–. ISSN 0006-2510. {{cite book}}: |author= has generic name (help)
^ Saint-Vil, Sweenie (August 18, 2020). "Mulatto enters Billboard Hot 100 for the first time ever". REVOLT. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
"Video surfaces proving R. Kelly definitely knew Aaliyah was only 15 at the time of marriage"
1Beginnings and history											Toggle Beginnings and history subsection																					1.1RCA Victor Custom Record Division																											1.2EMI																											1.3World War II era																											1.4The post-war 1940s																											1.51950s																											1.61960s																											1.71970s																											1.81980s																											1.91990s																											1.102000s																											1.112010s																											1.122020s
In the early 1960s, RCA Victor demolished its Camden warehouse.[74] This warehouse reportedly held four floors' worth of Victor'scatalog dating back to 1902 and vault masters (most of them were pre-tape wax and metal discs), test pressings, lacquer discs, matrix ledgers, and rehearsal recordings. The company retained some of the more important masters (such as those by Enrico Caruso, Arturo Toscanini, George Gershwin and Jimmie Rodgers; why the masters of Sergei Rachmaninoff apparently weren't saved is a mystery), but it is uncertain just how many others were saved or lost. A few days before the demolition took place, some collectors from the US and Europe were allowed to go through the warehouse and salvage whatever they could carry with them for their personal collections. Soon afterward, record collectors and RCA Victor officials watched from a nearby bridge as the warehouse was dynamited, with many studio masters still intact in the building. The remnants were bulldozed into the Delaware River and a pier was built on top of them. In 1973, to celebrate the centenary of Rachmaninoff's birth, RCA decided to reissue his complete recordings on LP; RCA was forced to go to collectors for copies of certain records because their archives were incomplete, as documented in a Time magazine article.
^ "Audio Player". 92.5 THE BEAT Montreal's Best Music Variety Radio Station. Archived from the original (MP3 (audio)) on May 21, 2013. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
^ Mumbai Moody, Nekesa (April 18, 2008). "Clive Davis replaced by Barry Weiss as BMG head". USA Today. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
An example of an RCA Compatible Discrete 4 or Quadradisc album; RCA used this label on some Quadradisc LPs from 1972 to 1976
"Now Free From Her Idol Contract, What's Kelly Clarkson Worth?"
"Now That She's Stuck In Your Head, Flo Milli Is Just Getting Started"
"RCA Records promotes Keith Naftaly to President, A&R – Music Business Worldwide"
RCA Records (UK): A division of Sony Music UK, since 2006, which acts as an import label of American and multinational Sony Music artists, and also signs UK and Irish artists, including Paloma Faith, Everything Everything, Laura Mvula, Little Mix, Olly Murs, and Kodaline.
RCA's LP label during the "Dynagroove" era was also used for 45 rpm records in South America during the mid- to late 1960s
By the close of the decade, RCA Records had undergone what Billboard described as a "remarkable turnaround" with the success of artists including Britney Spears, the Dave Matthews Band, Natalie Imbruglia, the Verve Pipe, Robyn, SWV, Christina Aguilera, NSYNC, and Foo Fighters. A distribution deal with Loud Records yielded hit records from urban artists including Big Punisher, Wu-Tang Clan and Mobb Deep.[34]
Belle,Christopher, Stephanie Long,Joelle Grace Taylor,Abs Petit,Khalea. "Now That She's Stuck In Your Head, Flo Milli Is Just Getting Started". Refinery29.com. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
^ Jeffrey, Don (April 8, 1995). "Jamieson Named RCA President After 7 Month Search". Billboard. Retrieved August 15, 2015.
^ The History of Living Stereo, RCA Victor liner notes
"Gold & Platinum – RIAA". RIAA. Retrieved February 12, 2018.
^ Phillips, Chuck (March 28, 1995). "Company Town: BMG Names Insider to Head RCA Records". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved August 16, 2015.
Hennessey, Mike (September 20, 1986). "RCA Deal Gives Bertelsmann Multinational Label Ranking". Billboard. Vol. 98, no. 3B. Nielsen Business Media, Inc. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
^ Holden, Steven (July 28, 1982). "The Pop Life: Gambling on Kenny Rogers". The New York Times. Retrieved October 5, 2015.
^ Dannen, Frederic (July 2, 1991). Hit Men: Power Brokers and Fast Money Inside the Music Business. New York: Random House. p. 260. ISBN 9780679730613. Retrieved August 14, 2015.
Baumgartner, Bradley (May 23, 1998). "Retooled RCA Is Once Again A Hitmaker". Billboard. Retrieved August 16, 2015.
In 1929, the Radio Corporation of America (RCA) purchased the Victor Talking Machine Company, then the world's largest manufacturer of phonographs (including the famous "Victrola") and phonograph records. The company then became RCA Victor. In absorbing Victor, RCA acquired the New World rights to the famous Nipper/"His Master's Voice" trademark.In 1931, RCA Victor's British affiliate the Gramophone Company merged with the Columbia Graphophone Company to form EMI. This gave RCA head David Sarnoff a seat on the EMI board.[4]
^ Anderson, Trevor (January 22, 2021). "Jazmine Sullivan's 'Heaux Tales' Tops R&B Albums Chart". Billboard.com.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ "Tunji Balogun launches label JV with RCA Records, as he's promoted to EVP of A&R". Music Business Worldwide. April 9, 2018. Retrieved May 25, 2019.
^ "The Hot 100 – 2000s Archive". billboard.com. Billboard. September 12, 2008. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
^ Billboard staff (August 8, 2011). "Peter Edge Appointed CEO of RCA Music Group". Billboard.biz. Archived from the original on January 16, 2013. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
"Rising global superstar Tate McRae releases new track & music video 'rubberband'". Pop.inquirer.net. January 26, 2021. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
^ Belle,Christopher, Stephanie Long,Joelle Grace Taylor,Abs Petit,Khalea. "Now That She's Stuck In Your Head, Flo Milli Is Just Getting Started". Refinery29.com. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
RCA Victor used this label for its American 45 rpm records during the "Dynagroove" era from 1965 to late 1968
^ Matrix coding – 2015 (updated June 2020) "RCA Victor Master Serial Number Codes: 1942–1980" at Discogs (thread 694503), by W.B. Retrieved December 30, 2020.
RCA Inspiration: The label puts out mainly Urban contemporary gospel music. The label replaced Verity Gospel Music Group in 2013.
Matrix coding – 2015 (updated June 2020) "RCA Victor Master Serial Number Codes: 1942–1980" at Discogs (thread 694503), by W.B. Retrieved December 30, 2020.
^ "RCA Records Cuts Ties With R. Kelly Amid Sexual Abuse Allegations". www.wbur.org. Retrieved December 12, 2022.
In September 1965, RCA and Lear Jet Corp. teamed up to release the first stereo 8-track tape music Cartridges (Stereo 8) which were first used in the 1966 line of Ford automobiles and were popular throughout the late 1960s and 1970s. (The initial release comprised 175 titles from RCA Victor and RCA Camden's catalog of artists.)
Halperin, Shirley (October 7, 2011). "RCA's Peter Edge, Tom Corson on the Shuttering of Jive, J and Arista". Billboard.biz. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
^ "Taming Of The Shrew, The  – Various Artists : Read reviews and compare prices at Ciao.co.uk". Cd.ciao.co.uk. July 26, 1999. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
In the early 1920s, Victor was slow about getting deeply involved in recording and marketing black jazz and vocal blues. By the mid-to-late 1920s, Victor had signed Jelly Roll Morton, Bennie Moten, Duke Ellington and other black bands, and was becoming very competitive with Columbia and Brunswick, even starting their own V-38000 "Hot Dance" series that was marketed to all Victor dealers. They also had a V-38500 "race" (race records) series, a 23000 'hot dance' continuation of the V-38000 series, as well as a 23200 'Race' series with blues, gospel and some hard jazz. However, throughout the 1930s, RCA Victor's involvement in jazz and blues slowed down and by the time of the musicians' strike and the end of the war, Victor was neglecting the R&B (race) scene, which is one of the reasons so many independent companies sprang up so successfully.[73]
^ Knoedelselder, William Jr. (September 18, 1998). "Rap On RCA Records: The Original U.S. Record Company Is Back In Groove". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved August 14, 2015.
^ "Trade Mark Details as at 13 November 2012: Case details for Trade Mark 325592". United Kingdom Intellectual Property Office. September 7, 2009. Retrieved November 13, 2012.
^ "RCA (Radio Corporation of America)". EHTW.org. Engingeering and Technology History Wiki. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
Newman, Melinda (November 28, 1992). "Novik Knows the Score in RCA's New Talent Drive". Billboard. Retrieved August 15, 2015.
Hoffman, Frank (2004). Encyclopedia of Recorded Sound. Routledge. p. 258. ISBN 1135949506.
"5 Highlights From RCA Records & Human Rights Campaign's Pride Benefit Concert"
Label of an RCA Victor 78 rpm record from the mid to late 1950s. This basic design was also used for most LPs and 45s from 1954 to 1964
RCA Victor issued several spoken word albums in the 1950s and 60s, notably the soundtracks of the films Richard III,[21] A Man for All Seasons and The Taming of the Shrew,[22] as well as complete versions of the National Theatre of Great Britain stage productions of Othello (starring Laurence Olivier) and Much Ado About Nothing (starring Maggie Smith, who also played Desdemona in the Olivier Othello). None of these albums have appeared on compact disc, but the films of Richard III, A Man For All Seasons, The Taming of the Shrew and the filmed version of Olivier's Othello have all been issued on DVD.
"Diskery Goes 33 in March To Service Entire Market; 45 Promotion in High Gear". Billboard. January 7, 1950. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
"RCA Records Promotes Mark Pitts to President, John Fleckenstein to COO". Billboard. January 14, 2021. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
^ RCA: Now Elvis rocked for Bertelsmann, too (PDF), Bertelsmann Worldwide Media, archived from the original (PDF) on May 14, 2011, retrieved June 22, 2010
^ Leight, Elias (February 7, 2020). "Koffee Makes History With Grammy Win, Signs With RCA". Rolling Stone. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Cole, Tom (September 30, 2010). "Why Records Are 12 Inches Wide". NPR.org. Retrieved July 2, 2019.
RCA Records (Australia): A division of Sony Music Australia. Founded in 1963 for Australian artists. Renamed to RCA Limited Australia and New Zealand in 1976 for Australian and New Zealand artists. Renamed to its current name in 2006.
Bluebird Records: Launched by RCA Victor in 1932, Bluebird was originally a lower-priced label releasing mainly jazz, blues and country music. The Bluebird label currently offers mostly jazz releases, as well as some reissues of historic jazz, swing and pop titles originally released on the RCA Victor label.
"Iconic signs at Nashville's historic Studio A return after nearly 50 years". The Tennessean. Retrieved May 25, 2019.
Beginning in late 1976, the RCA Corporation revived the Nipper/His Master's Voice trademark. RCA Records reinstated Nipper to most (Victor, Victrola, Red Seal and Special Products) record labels (in addition to returning to the traditional black label color for popular releases) in countries where RCA held the rights to the Nipper/His Master's Voice trademark. Nipper was once again widely used in RCA newspaper and magazine advertisements as well as store displays and promotional items such as T-shirts caps, posters, coin banks, keychains, watches, coffee mugs and stuffed toys. The trademark was also restored to RCA stationery, shipping cartons and delivery and service trucks.
"How the music industry overlooked R. Kelly's alleged abuse of young women - The Washington Post". web.archive.org. May 4, 2018. Retrieved December 12, 2022.
In 1963, RCA Victor introduced Dynagroove which added computer technology to the disc cutting process, ostensibly to improve sound reproduction. Whether or not the complex process was actually an improvement is still debated among audiophiles. RCA quietly discontinued Dynagroove around 1970.
Benjamin, Jeff (March 3, 2015). "9 Times Kelly Clarkson Kept it Real". Fuse. Retrieved August 8, 2015.
^ Du Lac, J. Freedom (June 26, 2007). "'My December': Kelly Clarkson, Striking Out On Her Own". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 22, 2015.
In 1955, RCA Victor purchased the recording contract of Elvis Presley from Sun Records for the then-astronomical sum of $40,000. Presley became RCA Victor's biggest-selling recording artist. His first record for the label was "Heartbreak Hotel", recorded in January 1956. RCA Victor sold ten million Presley singles during 1956.
In the 1950s, RCA Victor had three subsidiary or specialty labels: Groove, Vik and "X".
Hough, Clint. "Bringing on back the good times". Sixties City. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
Knoedelselder, William Jr. (September 18, 1998). "Rap On RCA Records: The Original U.S. Record Company Is Back In Groove". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved August 14, 2015.
^ Lewis, Randy (October 7, 2011). "RCA is Slimming Down for the Holidays". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved June 24, 2015.
In order to publish music in Japan, RCA collaborated with the Victor Company of Japan's publishing wing Victor Musical Industries Inc. in 1975 to found Japanese record label RVC.
Holden, Steven (July 28, 1982). "The Pop Life: Gambling on Kenny Rogers". The New York Times. Retrieved October 5, 2015.
William J. Ganz (1942). Internet Archive: Command Performance (1942) – How RCA records are made, narrated by Milton Cross.
^ Edward, David;et al. "RCA Program Transcription Album Discography (1931–33)". bsnpubs.com. Both Sides Now Publications. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
Internet Archive: Command Performance (1942) – How RCA records are made, narrated by Milton Cross
^ Newman, Melinda (April 3, 2015). "Now Free From Her Idol Contract, What's Kelly Clarkson Worth?". Billboard. Retrieved August 8, 2015.
"RCA Victor". elvispresleymuseum. Archived from the original on June 11, 2017. Retrieved May 2, 2017.
"Trade Mark Details as at 13 November 2012: Case details for Trade Mark 325592"
"Deal with RCA/JIVE Brings Music Stars to BAT's Endorsement Platform"
American Popular Music and Its Business: The First Four Hundred Years ...
John Fleckenstein and Joe Riccitelli were appointed as co-presidents of RCA Records in January 2018.[48] Later that year, RCA named Keith Naftaly president of A&R,[49] and Tunji Balogun executive VP of A&R.[50]
"Mulatto enters Billboard Hot 100 for the first time ever"
^ Schatz, Lake (January 16, 2019). "Video surfaces proving R. Kelly definitely knew Aaliyah was only 15 at the time of marriage". Consequence. Retrieved December 12, 2022.
RCA Records (France): A division of Sony Music France. Founded as RCA Cinematre in 1978. Renamed to its current name in 2006. Absorbed sister division Jive Epic in 2019.
Leight, Elias (February 7, 2020). "Koffee Makes History With Grammy Win, Signs With RCA". Rolling Stone. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
"Trade Mark Details as at 13 November 2012: Case details for Trade Mark 325592". United Kingdom Intellectual Property Office. September 7, 2009. Retrieved November 13, 2012.
^ "Brockhampton Finally Scored Its Hit Single -- And Shia LaBeouf Helped Make It Possible". Billboard. February 6, 2020. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
Sir George Martin; Jeremy Hornsby (October 15, 1994). All You Need Is Ears: The Inside Personal Story of the Genius who Created The Beatles. St. Martin's Press. pp. 84–. ISBN 978-0-312-11482-4.
Newman, Melinda (April 3, 2015). "Now Free From Her Idol Contract, What's Kelly Clarkson Worth?". Billboard. Retrieved August 8, 2015.
This page was last edited on 17 March 2023, at 05:31 (UTC).
In 1968, the RCA Corporation modernized its image with what was then a new futuristic-looking logo (the letters 'RCA' in block, modernized form), replacing the old lightning bolt logo, and the virtual retirement of both the Victor and Nipper/His Master's Voice trademarks. The RCA Victor Division was now known as RCA Records, 'Victor' now used only on the album covers and labels of RCA's regular popular record releases which were changed to bright orange or yellow (becoming tan briefly late in 1975-76), from the traditional black in use since 1902, while the Nipper/His Master's Voice trademark was restricted to the album covers of Red Seal records.
"Rap On RCA Records: The Original U.S. Record Company Is Back In Groove"
^ Dawson, Jim and, Propes, Steve (October 1, 2003). 45 Rpm: The History, Heroes and Villains of a Pop Music Revolution. Backbeat Books. p. 37. ISBN 0879307579. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
Dannen, Frederic (July 2, 1991). Hit Men: Power Brokers and Fast Money Inside the Music Business. New York: Random House. p. 260. ISBN 9780679730613. Retrieved August 14, 2015.
"McCullers, Carson, (Mrs Carson Smith McCullers), (19 Feb. 1917–29 Sept. 1967), Author", Who Was Who, Oxford University Press, December 1, 2007, doi:10.1093/ww/9780199540884.013.u50658, retrieved November 29, 2020
RCA Victor has produced several notable Broadway cast albums, among them the original Broadway recordings of Brigadoon, Paint Your Wagon, the Mary Martin Peter Pan, Damn Yankees, Hello, Dolly!, Oliver!, and Fiddler on the Roof. RCA has also recorded and released recordings of revival stagings of musicals. These include the musical productions staged at Lincoln Center, such as the 1966 revivals of Show Boat and Annie Get Your Gun, the 1987 revival of Anything Goes and the 1998 Broadway revivals of Cabaret and The Sound of Music. Call Me Madam was recorded by RCA Victor with all of its original cast except for its star Ethel Merman, who, due to contractual obligations, could not be released from her American Decca Records contract. She was replaced on the RCA Victor album by Dinah Shore. RCA Victor was also responsible for the film soundtrack albums of Damn Yankees, South Pacific, Bye Bye Birdie, Half a Sixpence, and The Sound of Music. The album made from the 1965 hit Julie Andrews film was (and is) one of the best selling soundtracks of all time. The film soundtrack of Oliver!, made by Colgems Records, was distributed by RCA, which had released the Broadway cast album. RCA Victor also released the original American cast album of Hair.
Penndorf, Ronald (1938–2014). "RCA Victor Red Seal Labelography (19501976)". Recollections (blog). Fine Vintage LPs and Journal of Recorded Music. Berkeley, California: Ronald Penndorf (editor & publisher). Archived from the original on January 11, 2012. Retrieved January 8, 2012 – via Wayback Machine.
"The Rise and Fall of the Compact 33 Record". Megocollector.com. December 18, 2009. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
^ "Museum Of Obsolete Media". obsoletemedia.org. Retrieved January 2, 2023.
^ "John Fleckenstein and Joe Riccitelli Upped to Co-Presidents at RCA Records". Variety. January 19, 2018. Retrieved February 12, 2018.
"Richard III (1955) – Soundtrack details". SoundtrackCollector.com. May 13, 2007. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
"5 Highlights From RCA Records & Human Rights Campaign's Pride Benefit Concert". Billboard. June 30, 2020. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
In 1960, RCA Victor announced the Compact 33 double extended play and singles; these were 7 inch records, which played at 33 1/3 rpm. In January 1961, the Compact 33 discs were released simultaneously with their 45 rpm counterparts. The long-term goal was to phase out the 45 rpm disc, but sales of the new records were poor and by early 1962 the campaign had failed.[23]
Halperin, Shirley (October 7, 2011). "RCA Execs Confirm Jive and Arista Labels Shut Down". Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved June 24, 2015.
Schatz, Lake (January 16, 2019). "Video surfaces proving R. Kelly definitely knew Aaliyah was only 15 at the time of marriage". Consequence. Retrieved December 12, 2022.
"How the music industry overlooked R. Kelly's alleged abuse of young women - The Washington Post"
Nielsen Business Media, Inc. (March 17, 1956). Billboard. Nielsen Business Media, Inc. pp. 14–. ISSN 0006-2510. {{cite book}}: |author= has generic name (help)
^ Wallerstein, Edward. "LPs historic". Musicinthemail.com. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
^ "British RCA to Cut Decca Ltd. Tie In U.K., Eire & Form Own Set-Up". Billboard. November 4, 1967. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
^ a b "How the music industry overlooked R. Kelly's alleged abuse of young women - The Washington Post". web.archive.org. May 4, 2018. Retrieved December 12, 2022.
^ "The Rise and Fall of the Compact 33 Record". Megocollector.com. December 18, 2009. Retrieved January 8, 2012.
"Taming Of The Shrew, The  – Various Artists : Read reviews and compare prices at Ciao.co.uk"
Passman, Donald. "Pressing & Distribution Deals". taxi.com. Taxi: The World's Leading Independent A&R Company. Archived from the original on December 29, 2017. Retrieved December 20, 2015.
RCA sold its interest in EMI in 1938, but EMI continued to distribute RCA Victor recordings in the UK and its territories on the HMV label until the late 1950s. RCA also manufactured and distributed HMV recordings on the RCA Victor and custom HMV labels in North America.[9]
^ "McCullers, Carson, (Mrs Carson Smith McCullers), (19 Feb. 1917–29 Sept. 1967), Author", Who Was Who, Oxford University Press, December 1, 2007, doi:10.1093/ww/9780199540884.013.u50658, retrieved November 29, 2020
"The Hot 100 – 2000s Archive". billboard.com. Billboard. September 12, 2008. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
In September 1954, RCA Victor introduced "Gruve-Gard" where the center and edge of a record are thickerthan the playing area, reducing scuff marks during handling and when stacked on a turntable with an automatic record changer.[16] Most competitors quickly adopted the raised label and edges.
"#MuteRKelly Got Live & Personal At A Rally In New York City"
"RCA's Peter Edge, Tom Corson on the Shuttering of Jive, J and Arista"
Anderson, Trevor (January 22, 2021). "Jazmine Sullivan's 'Heaux Tales' Tops R&B Albums Chart". Billboard.com.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ "MTV, VH1 to Air Live 8 Performances Uninterrupted". MTV News. July 7, 2005. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Brown, Jennifer (December 20, 2007). "Tila Tequila Goes for the Guy". Reality TV Magazine. Archived from the original on February 5, 2016. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Vena, Jocelyn (May 3, 2012). "Justin Bieber Goes 'More Mature' With 'Boyfriend' Video". MTV News. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
"Chris McCarthy, Brian Robbins & George Cheeks Promoted As ViacomCBS Moves International Units Under Purview Of U.S. Execs"
Jeckell, Barry (January 10, 2001). "MTV To Honor Janet Jackson". Billboard. Retrieved March 16, 2008.
Alongside its unscripted slate, MTV would produce more scripted programming.[126] Such shows included Awkward, an American version of Skins, anda reimagining of Teen Wolf. In June 2012, the network announced the development of a television series based on the Scream franchise.[127] As MTV would pivot back to unscripted programming towards the end of the decade, some of these shows would be moved to other networks.[128]
Lane, Frederick S. (2006). The Decency Wars: The Campaign to Cleanse American Culture. Amherst, New York: Prometheus Books. ISBN 1-59102-427-7.
^ a b "FoxNews.com". FoxNews.com. April 7, 2010. Archived from the original on February 1, 2011. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
Sisario, Ben (November 17, 2008). "Totally Over: Last Squeals for 'TRL'". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on December 9, 2008. Retrieved April 2, 2019.
^ a b Feeney, Nolan (January 31, 2014). "The Legacy of Janet Jackson's Boob". The Atlantic. Retrieved April 19, 2016.
Rock bands and performers of the 1980s who appeared on MTV ranged from new wave to soft rock and heavy metalincluding Adam Ant, Bryan Adams, Pat Benatar, Blondie, the Cars, Culture Club,[45] Def Leppard, Dire Straits (whose 1985 song and video "Money for Nothing" included the slogan "I want my MTV" in its lyrics), Duran Duran,[46] Eurythmics,[47] Peter Gabriel, Genesis, Daryl Hall & John Oates, Billy Idol, Billy Joel, John Mellencamp, Mötley Crüe, Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, the Police, Prince, Ratt,[48] Ultravox, U2, Van Halen[49] and ZZ Top.
Ankeny, Jason (2007). "Weird Al Yankovic – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
From 2006 to 2007, MTV operated an online channel, MTV International, targeted to the broad international market. The purpose of the online channel was to air commercial-free music videos once the television channels started concentrating on shows unrelated to music videos or music-related programming.
Poniewozik, James (April 7, 2002). "Ozzy Knows Best". Time. Archived from the original on August 24, 2013. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Crupi, Anthony (February 27, 2017). "Small Change: Why Niche Cable Nets Are on Their Last Legs | Media – AdAge". Advertising Age. Retrieved February 27, 2017.
Erlewine, Stephen Thomas (1999). "Culture Club – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
^ "That Time Billy Squier Made An MTV Singalong A Hit Christmas Song | 100.7 WZLX". Chuck Nowlin. Retrieved November 15, 2022.
"MTV Launches MTV Studios with 'Daria', 'Made', 'Real World' & 'Aeon Flux' Revivals". June 21, 2018.
Gonzalez, John (September 15, 2020). "How Did MTV Become the 'Ridiculousness' Network?". The Ringer. Retrieved July 25, 2022.
^ "NIAF.org" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on May 31, 2012. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
"MTV Dis(miss)es Rock in Favor of Hip Hop". Antimusic.com. May 9, 2002. Archived from the original on May 22, 2011. Retrieved June 8, 2010.
MTV began its annual Spring Break coverage in 1986, setting up temporary operations in Daytona Beach, Florida, for a week in March, broadcasting live eight hours per day. "Spring break is a youth culture event," MTV's vice president Doug Herzog said at the time. "We wanted to be part of it for that reason. It makes good sense for us to come down and go live from the center of it, because obviously the people there are the kinds of people who watch MTV."[55]
"MTV News offers '2017 resolutions for white guys': 'Blue Lives Matter isn't a thing'"
Erlewine, Stephen Thomas (2007). "Duran Duran – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
^ "Meet the Family: Sharon". The Osbournes. MTV.com. Archived from the original on April 13, 2009. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
Over the next decade, MTV would engage in channel drift, gradually expanding its programming outside of music videos with programming lightly or heavily related to music. MTV became known for its reality programming, some of which followed the lives of musicians; The Osbournes, a reality show based on the everyday life of Black Sabbath frontman Ozzy Osbourne and his family premiered in 2002 and would become one of the network's premiere shows.[93] It also kick-started a musical career for Kelly Osbourne,[94] while Sharon Osbourne went on to host her own self-titled talk show on US television.[95] Production ended on The Osbournes in November 2004.[96] 2007's A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila, chronicling MySpace sensation Tila Tequila's journey to find a companion, was the subject of criticism due to Tequila's bisexuality.[97][98]
"Niche Genres, Music Information are Focus of MTV Lineup". Billboard. May 8, 1999.
^ "What the Hell Is MTV's New Rebrand About? | Motherboard". Motherboard.vice.com. June 25, 2015. Retrieved December 8, 2016.
"MTV Launches MTV Studios with 'Daria', 'Made', 'Real World' & 'Aeon Flux' Revivals"
Molanphy, Chris (July 29, 2011). "100 & Single: The Dawning Of The MTV Era And How It Rocket-Fueled The Hot 100". Village Voice. Archived from the original on October 20, 2013. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Century, Douglas (November 21, 1999). "The Extra 'V' in Very V.I.P." The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved March 29, 2019.
Ideas for music television began in the 1960s. The Beatles used music videos to promote their records starting in the mid-1960s. Their 1964 film A Hard Day's Night, and particularly its performance of the song "Can't Buy Me Love", led MTV to later honor the film's director Richard Lester with an award for "basically inventing the music video".[7]
MTV's now-iconic logo was designed in 1981 by Manhattan Design (a collective formed by Frank Olinsky,[140] Pat Gorman and Patty Rogoff) under the guidance of original creative director Fred Seibert. The block letter "M" was sketched by Rogoff, with the scribbled word "TV" spraypainted by Olinksky.[141] The primary variant of MTV's logo at the time had the "M" in yellow and the "TV" in red. But unlike most television networks' logos at the time, the logo was constantly branded with different colors, patterns and images on a variety of station IDs. Examples include 1988's ID "Adam And Eve", where the "M" is an apple and the snake is the "TV". And for 1984's ID "Art History", the logo is shown in different art styles. The only constant aspects of MTV's logo at the time were its general shape and proportions, with everything else being dynamic.[142]
^ "MTV Schedule for January 13, 2007". MTV. Archived from the original on January 13, 2007.
Bernstein, Fred (October 17, 1983). "A Hard Day's Night with MTV's Video Jocks". People Magazine. Archived from the original on August 22, 2016. Retrieved June 22, 2012.
"MTV Turning SCREAM Franchise into a TV Series (June 4, 2012)"
Kreps, Daniel (August 11, 2009). "Report: MTV To Vacate Times Square Studio". Rolling Stone. Retrieved March 29, 2019.
"A Star Idolized and Haunted, Michael Jackson Dies at 50"
Booe, Martin. "RADIO – KNX-FM MORNING DISC JOCKEY DAVE HALL IS FIRED." Daily News of Los Angeles (CA), Valley ed., sec. L.A. Life, April 8, 1987, p. 19. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/0EF513A37979D7AA. Accessed February 12, 2020.
^ "MTV's New Year's 'Resolutions for White Guys' Slammed as 'Racist,' 'Disgusting'". Archived from the original on October 11, 2018. Retrieved December 30, 2016.
^ Lewis, Randy (February 7, 1992). "Nesmith Was Also a Music Video Pioneer". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved January 4, 2022.
^ Weber, Bruce. "Charlatan Inks MGM to 26 Artist-Promoting TV Films". Billboard. No. June 8, 1968.
Williams, Casey (February 1, 2005). "MTV Smut Peddlers: Targeting Kids with Sex, Drugs, and Alcohol" (PDF). ParentsTV.org. Parents Television Council. Archived from the original (PDF) on February 17, 2007. Retrieved May 19, 2007.
Beets, Greg (August 3, 2001). "Blow Up Your Video". The Austin Chronicle. Retrieved January 30, 2008.
^ "MTV Networks' MHD: Music High-Definition Channel Kicks Into High Gear With New Programming and a New Name – Palladia".
^ Barnes, Brokes (June 25, 2009). "A Star Idolized and Haunted, Michael Jackson Dies at 50". The New York Times. Retrieved July 12, 2009.
Marks, Craig & Tannebaum, Rob, I Want My MTV, Penguin Books, 2011, pg. 166
Raymond, Adam K. (November 24, 2009). "Italian Group Asks MTV to Yank Jersey Shore". Vulture. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ "MTV's Video Music Award Sponsors Push Cross-Platform Integrations". Archived from the original on August 1, 2013. Retrieved June 22, 2012.
In 1984, more record companies and artists began making clips, realizing the popularity of MTV and the growing medium. To accommodate the influx of videos, MTV announced changes to its playlists in the November 3, 1984, issue of Billboard that took effect the next week. Playlist rotation categories were expanded from three (Light, Medium, Heavy) to seven: New, Light, Breakout, Medium, Active, Heavy and Power. This ensured that artists with chart hits got the exposure they deserved, with Medium being a home for established hits still on the climb up to the top 10; and Heavy a home for the big hits – without the bells and whistles – just the exposure they commanded.[50]
^ Weprin, Alex (June 25, 2008). "Breaking Tradition, MTV to Accept Political Advertising". Broadcasting & Cable. Retrieved June 25, 2008.
^ "Whitney Houston: MTV, BET, VH1 low key in coverage". Los Angeles Times. February 12, 2012. Retrieved June 21, 2012.
"Carson Daly Looks Back as TRL Counts Down its Final Days"
^ Donaldson-James, Susan (January 5, 2008). "MTV's Second Shot at Bisexuality". ABC News. Archived from the original on February 13, 2019. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
"Fury Erupts Online After MTV Suggests New Year's Resolutions For White Guys"
Erlewine, Stephen Thomas; Prato, Greg (2002). "Van Halen – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
Cave, Damien (February 23, 2004). "MTV Under Attack by FCC". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on December 6, 2008. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Vena, Jocelyn (May 3, 2012). "Justin Bieber Goes 'More Mature' With 'Boyfriend' Video". MTV News. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Arango, Tim (April 18, 2009). "Make Room, Cynics; MTV Wants to Do Some Good". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 21, 2009. Retrieved April 20, 2009.
Brown, Jennifer (December 20, 2007). "Tila Tequila Goes for the Guy". Reality TV Magazine. Archived from the original on February 5, 2016. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Blackwood, Nina/Goodman, Mark/Hunter, Alan/Quinn, Martha/Edwards, Gavin (2013). VJ: The Unplugged Adventures of MTV's First Wave. Atria. ISBN 1-4516-7812-6.
"Why it took MTV so long to play black music videos"
^ "Anglomania: The Second British Invasion". Rolling Stone. Retrieved April 29, 2019.
^ Dishman, Lydia (June 25, 2015). "MTV International Turns The Lens On Its Audience With New "I Am My MTV" Rebrand | Co.Create | creativity + culture + commerce". Fastcocreate.com. Retrieved December 8, 2016.
Gundersen, Edna (August 25, 2005). "Jackson ends black music prejudice on MTV". USA Today. Retrieved May 13, 2010.
Pittman's boss, Warner executive vice president John Lack, had shepherded PopClips, a TV series created by Monkee-turned-solo-artist Michael Nesmith, whose attention has turned to the music video format in the late 1970s.[19][20]
^ "MTV Sorry for Poop-Flinging". ABC News. April 6, 2001. Retrieved September 25, 2011.
"Small Change: Why Niche Cable Nets Are on Their Last Legs | Media – AdAge"
Web Staff (April 21, 2016). "Remember Prince by watching some of his best performances, music videos". FOX31 Denver. Retrieved April 21, 2016.
^ Hoye, Jacob. MTV Uncensored. Pocket Books, 2001. ISBN 0-7434-2682-7.
^ "Fury Erupts Online After MTV Suggests New Year's Resolutions For White Guys". December 20, 2016. Retrieved December 30, 2016.
^ "10 on Top". MTV.com. Archived from the original on February 1, 2021. Retrieved August 14, 2012.
This page was last edited on 14 March 2023, at 23:20 (UTC).
"Why doesn't MTV repeat The Challenge when it airs Ridiculousness a ridiculous amount?"
^ Booe, Martin. "RADIO – KNX-FM MORNING DISC JOCKEY DAVE HALL IS FIRED." Daily News of Los Angeles (CA), Valley ed., sec. L.A. Life, April 8, 1987, p. 19. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/0EF513A37979D7AA. Accessed February 12, 2020.
"Elect What? "Elect This."". MTV Press. Viacom Media Networks. Archived from the original on September 21, 2016. Retrieved August 22, 2016.
^ a b c Hau, Louis (February 15, 2007). "R.I.P. For MTV's TRL?". Forbes.
"Whitney Houston: MTV, BET, VH1 low key in coverage". Los Angeles Times. February 12, 2012. Retrieved June 21, 2012.
Shortly after TBS began Night Tracks, NBC launched a music video program called Friday Night Videos, which was considered network television's answer to MTV. Later renamed simply Friday Night, the program ran from 1983 to 2002. ABC's contribution to the music video program genre in 1984, ABC Rocks, was far less successful, lasting only a year.[171]
""I Want My MTV! Part 3" Fred Seibert dot com"
^ Lewis, Michael (1996). "The Herd of Independent Minds". New Republic. Vol. 214, no. 23. pp. 20–26.
"MTV Classic bringing The 2011 Beavis and Butt-Head, Aeon Flux and music videos back on-air"
Dishman, Lydia (June 25, 2015). "MTV International Turns The Lens On Its Audience With New "I Am My MTV" Rebrand | Co.Create | creativity + culture + commerce". Fastcocreate.com. Retrieved December 8, 2016.
^ "MTV Radion on the way". Adage.com. July 20, 1995. Retrieved January 7, 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ a b "Apologetic Jackson says 'costume reveal' went awry". CNN. Associated Press. February 2, 2004. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
Englis, Basil G. (1991). "Music Television and Its Influences on Consumer Culture, and the Transmission of Consumption Messages". ACR North American Advances. NA-18.
"Scotsman.com Living". Archived from the original on July 10, 2012.
Seideman, Tony (1984). "Changes in MTV Playlist (expansion to seven categories)". Billboard. No. November 3, 1984. p. 42.
"MTV Announces New Late Night Rap Show, Recruits Charlamagne Tha God"
On September 28, 2016, on an AfterBuzz TV live stream, Scout Durwood said that MTV had a "no appropriation policy" that forbid her from wearing her hair in cornrows in an episode of Mary + Jane. She said, "I wanted to cornrow my hair, and they were like, 'That's racist.'"[178]
^ "Charlatan Forms C.P. Eye To Distribute Videotapes". Billboard. No. February 24, 1968.
MTV's "Fight for Your Rights: Take a Stand Against Violence" / Save Our History (1999)
^ "Music censorship in America". Archived from the original on August 8, 2009.
"CNN – MTV changed the music industry on August 1, 1981 – July 31, 1998". Retrieved May 13, 2010.
^ Erlewine, Stephen Thomas; Prato, Greg (2002). "Ratt – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
SuperStation WTBS launched Night Tracks on June 3, 1983, with up to 14 hours of music video airplay each late night weekend by 1985. Its most noticeable difference was that black artists that MTV initially ignored received airplay. The program ran until the end of May 1992.
Hilburn, Robert (September 5, 1986). "MTV CREATOR TACKLES NEW GOALS". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved February 4, 2023.
^ The quote from Walter Yetnikoff reads, "I'm pulling everything we have off the air ... I'm not going to give you any more videos. And I'm going to go public and fucking tell them about the fact you don't want to play music by a black guy."
^ "Richard Lester: A hard day's life". Salon.com. June 26, 1999. Archived from the original on November 26, 2012. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Wong, Curtis M. (July 15, 2016). "For This MTV VJ, Music Paved The Way To An Out And Happy Life". HuffPost. Retrieved March 29, 2019.
Atlas, Jacob. "Charlatan Productions: Mind Blowing Films for Pop Groups". The Beat (February 10, 1968): 12.
Lafayette, Jon (April 21, 2016). "MTV Marking Prince's Death at Upfront". Broadcasting & Cable. Retrieved April 21, 2016.
"Tumblr Launches "Tumblr TV," A GIF Search Engine With A Full-Screen Viewing Mode | TechCrunch". techcrunch.com. June 25, 2015. Retrieved December 8, 2016.
The Punk, Donny (February 1986). "The Dead Kennedys' State of Confusion". Spin Magazine. Retrieved May 25, 2013.
Additionally, MTV aired a documentary covering a trip by the musical group Sum 41 to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, documenting the conflict there. The group ended up being caught in the midst of an attack outside of the hotel and were subsequently flown out of the country.[213]
"The 100 Greatest Moments in Rock Music: The '80s". Entertainment Weekly. May 1999. Archived from the original on December 27, 2014. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Marks, Craig & Tannebaum, Rob, I Want My MTV, Penguin Books, 2011, pp. 167–168
"MTV schedule for the week of October 20, 2002". MTV. Archived from the original on October 22, 2002.
^ "CBS hit with $550K Super Bowl fine". CNN/Money. September 22, 2004. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
^ "Memory Lane...Inside MTV Studios During Their First Month On Air". Eyes Of A Generation...Television's Living History. Retrieved November 15, 2022.
"QUBE Interactive Television History: It Came From Columbus". Tedium: The Dull Side of the Internet. Retrieved February 4, 2023.
"The Creation of an Icon: MTV". Animation World Magazine. January 1, 1998.
^ "QUBE Interactive Television History: It Came From Columbus". Tedium: The Dull Side of the Internet. Retrieved February 4, 2023.
CBS StudiosBig Ticket EntertainmentCBS Eye Animation ProductionsLate Night Cartoons, Inc.CBS Media VenturesDabl
As programming chief, Robert W. Pittman recruited and managed a team of co-founders for the launch that included Tom Freston (who succeeded Pittman as CEO of MTV Networks), Fred Seibert and John Sykes.[32] They were joined by Carolyn Baker (original head of talent and acquisition),[33] Marshall Cohen (original head of research),[34] Gail Sparrow (of talent and acquisition), Sue Steinberg (executive producer),[35] Julian Goldberg, Steve Lawrence, Geoff Bolton; studio producers and MTV News writers/associate producers Liz Nealon, Nancy LaPook and Robin Zorn; Steve Casey (creator of the name "MTV" and its first program director),[36] Marcy Brafman, Richard Schenkman, Ronald E. "Buzz" Brindle, and Robert Morton. Kenneth M. Miller is credited as MTV's first technical director at its New York City-based network operations facility.[36]
MTV targeted an audience of ages 12 to 34. However its self-conducted research showed that over 50% of its audience was 12–24, and that this group watched for an average of 30 minutes to two hours a day.[40] As the PBS series Frontline[41] explored, MTV was a driving force that catapulted music videos to a mainstream audience, turning music videos into an art form as well as a marketing machine that became beneficial to artists."[42]
MTV also held week-long music events that took over the presentation of the channel. Examples from the 1990s and 2000s include All Access Week, a week in the summer dedicated to live concerts and festivals; Spankin' New Music Week, a week in the fall dedicated to brand new music videos; and week-long specials that culminated in a particular live event, such as Wanna be a VJ and the Video Music Awards.[57]
"Justin Timberlake to MTV: "Play more damn videos!"". People Magazine. September 9, 2007. Retrieved June 24, 2012.
At the end of each year, MTV takes advantage of its home location in New York City to broadcast live coverage on New Year's Eve in Times Square. Several live music performances are featured alongside interviews with artists and bands that were influential throughout the year. For many years from the 1980s to the 2000s, the channel upheld a tradition of having a band perform a cover song at midnight immediately following the beginning of the new year.[58]
^ Williams, Kori (April 27, 2021). "MTV Plays 'Ridiculousness' Enough to Last Us a Lifetime". Distractify. Retrieved July 25, 2022.
^ "Meet the Family: Kelly". The Osbournes. MTV.com. Archived from the original on February 25, 2021. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
^ "MTV won't say how old it is (but it's 25): A list of Music Television's notable moments". CNN. April 30, 2005. Archived from the original on August 11, 2006. Retrieved August 1, 2006.
^ Erlewine, Stephen Thomas; Prato, Greg (2002). "Van Halen – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
The channel also began showing presidential campaign commercials for the first time during the 2008 US presidential election.[214] This has led to criticism, with Jonah Goldberg opining that "MTV serves as the Democrats' main youth outreach program."[215]
^ "Tom Rounds Quits KFRC". Rolling Stone. No. November 9, 1967. p. 1.
"The Cable Center May 2, 2019". Archived from the original on February 9, 2021. Retrieved September 26, 2020.
The channel's iconic "I Want My MTV!" advertising campaign was launched in 1982. It was first developed by George Lois and was based on a cereal commercial from the 1950s with the slogan "I Want My Maypo!" that Lois adapted unsuccessfully from the original created by animator John Hubley.[154]
Devora, Abby. "Need To Know: Sam Smith Drops 'I'm Not The Only One' Video". MTV.com.
By 2000, Linkin Park, Sum 41, Jimmy Eat World, Mudvayne, Cold, At the Drive-In, Alien Ant Farm, and other acts were added to the musical rotation. MTV also launched the subscription channel MTVX to play rock music videos exclusively.[72]
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "MTV" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
"The Fall Of 'TRL' And The Rise of Internet Video". NPR. November 12, 2008. Retrieved March 29, 2009.
^ "Rocked: Sum 41 in Congo" War Child Canada. 2001–2006. Archived January 7, 2007, at the Wayback Machine
"Rock is dead and well at the MTV Video Awards"
"Chris McCarthy, President of VH1 and Logo, Will Now Also Head Up MTV"
"MTV Schedule for January 13, 2007". MTV. Archived from the original on January 13, 2007.
The Real Story of the Youth Vote in the 2004 Election.
HBO also had a 30-minute program of music videos called Video Jukebox, that first aired around the time of MTV's launch and lasted until late 1986. Also around this time, HBO, as well as other premium channels such as Cinemax, Showtime and The Movie Channel, occasionally played one or a few music videos between movies.[citation needed]
"Rocked: Sum 41 in Congo" War Child Canada. 2001–2006. Archived January 7, 2007, at the Wayback Machine
^ Raymond, Adam K. (November 24, 2009). "Italian Group Asks MTV to Yank Jersey Shore". Vulture. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
"Everyone Wants To Be A VJ". www.cbsnews.com. Retrieved March 29, 2019.
^ Williams 2005, p. 8 In this case, a reference to crack cocaine was removed from the video for "My Band" by D12.
Lewis, Randy (February 7, 1992). "Nesmith Was Also a Music Video Pioneer". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved January 4, 2022.
MTV launched on August 1, 1981, with an extended network ID featuring the first landing on the moon (with still images acquired directly from NASA), which was a concept of Seibert's executed by Buzz Potamkin and Perpetual Motion Pictures.[143] The ID then cut to the American flag planted on the moon's surface changed to show the MTV logo on it, which rapidly changed into different colors and patterns several times per second as the network's original guitar-driven jingle was played for the first time. After MTV's launch, the "moon landing" ID was edited to show only its ending, and was shown at the top of every hour until early 1986, when the ID was scrapped in light of the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. The ID ran "more than 75,000 times each year (48 times each day), at the top and bottom of every hour every day" according to Seibert.[143]
^ Vidani, Peter (May 5, 1980). "MTV Logo @ Fred Seibert dot com". Fredseibert.com. Archived from the original on April 26, 2012. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
^ "MTVpress.com". MTVpress.com. May 29, 2008. Archived from the original on August 29, 2008. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
^ Serge Denisoff, R. (January 1, 1988). Inside MTV – Google Books. ISBN 978-0-88738-864-4. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
^ Rea, Steven. "MTV ANNOUNCERS LOOK TO HOLLYWOOD." Wichita Eagle, The (KS), CITY EDITION ed., sec. LIFESTYLE, June 4, 1987, p. 15D. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/0EADB31150AD3A46. Accessed April 6, 2020.
Lois's first pitch to the network was roundly rejected when Lois insisted that rock stars like Mick Jagger should be crying when they said the tag line, not unlike his failed 'Maypo' revamp. His associate, and Seibert mentor Dale Pon[155] took over the campaign, strategically and creatively, and was able to get the campaign greenlit when he laughed the tears out of the spots. From then on –with the exception of the closely logos on the first round of commercials– Pon was the primary creative force.[156]
^ Salamone, Gina (December 22, 2009). "Dell pulls ads from 'Jersey Shore'; MTV show loses another sponsor over claims of 'ethnic bashing'". New York: NYdailyNews.com. Archived from the original on December 25, 2009. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
^ Vidani, Peter. ""I Want My MTV! Part 3" Fred Seibert dot com". Fredseibert.com. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
"MTV takes over beach". Associated Press. July 22, 2000. Archived from the original on July 3, 2017. Retrieved June 22, 2012.
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the "Rick James & Prince Part 2 tour bus tales". YouTube. Archived from the original on February 29, 2020. Retrieved June 1, 2020.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link): "Rick James & Prince Part 2 tour bus tales". YouTube. Retrieved June 1, 2020.
"Florence and the Machine 'Unplugged' To Premiere Sunday on MTV". MTV News. April 2, 2012. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Mancini, Robert (September 29, 1999). "Coal Chamber Lines Up "Nothing" Tour". MTV News. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ "MTV plans big New Year's Eve bash". Digital Spy. December 2, 2003. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
"MTV launches - Aug 01, 1981 - HISTORY.com". HISTORY.com. Retrieved April 19, 2016.
The channel originally aired music videos and related programming as guided by television personalities known as video jockeys, or VJs.[2] In the years since its inception, it significantly toned down its focus on music in favor of original reality programming for teenagers and young adults.
^ "CNN – MTV changed the music industry on August 1, 1981 – July 31, 1998". Retrieved May 13, 2010.
Pallotta, Frank (April 21, 2016). "MTV reboots 'MTV Unplugged,' introduces weekly live music series". Retrieved February 15, 2022.
WESTBROOK, BRUCE. "MTV drops Quinn while searching for fresh faces." Houston Chronicle, NO STAR ed., sec. WEEKEND PREVIEW, January 8, 1987, p. 1. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/0ED7ACC863D5A5A4. Accessed February 9, 2020.
"How Tumblr and MTV Killed the Neon Anti-Corporate Aesthetic of Vaporwave | Motherboard". Motherboard.vice.com. June 26, 2015. Retrieved December 8, 2016.
^ Goldberg, Jonah. "Jonah Goldberg – Very Different Visions". Retrieved December 30, 2016.
"MTV marks 40th anniversary with a new 'Moon Person' design"
^ "MTV Launches 'Classic' Channel Dedicated to 1990s". Rolling Stone. July 28, 2016. Archived from the original on May 10, 2018. Retrieved July 29, 2016.
"MTV International Turns The Lens On Its Audience With New "I Am My MTV" Rebrand | Co.Create | creativity + culture + commerce"
"CNN – MTV changed the music industry on August 1, 1981 – July 31, 1998"
"Pixel Party: The Studio of Jen Epstein". Popkern.tv. Archived from the original on February 21, 2015. Retrieved May 19, 2014.
^ Vidani, Peter. "Dale Pon: My Mentor Fred Seibert dot com". Fredseibert.com. Archived from the original on February 24, 2021. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
2009 saw the debut of Jersey Shore, which became a ratings success throughout its run and spawned the "MTV Shores" franchise, but would attract various controversies.[106] With backlash towards what some consider too much superficial content on the network, a 2009 New York Times article also revealed plans to shift MTV's focus towards more socially conscious media, which the article labels "MTV for the Obama era."[107][108][109] Shortly after Michael Jackson died on June 25, the channel aired several hours of Jackson's music videos, accompanied by live news specials featuring reactions from MTV personalities and other celebrities.[110] The temporary shift in MTV's programming culminated the following week with the channel's live coverage of Jackson's memorial service.[111] MTV aired similar one-hour live specials with music videos and news updates following the death of Whitney Houston on February 11, 2012, and the death of Adam Yauch of the Beastie Boys on May 4, 2012.[112][113]
Find sources: "MTV" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ Warner, Kara (May 15, 2012). "Usher Brings New Song 'Twisted' To MTV Wednesday". MTV News. Retrieved June 21, 2012.
In 1997, MTV introduced its new studios in Times Square.[73] MTV created four shows in the late 1990s that centered on music videos: MTV Live, Total Request, Say What?, and 12 Angry Viewers.[citation needed] A year later, in 1998, MTV merged Total Request and MTV Live into a live daily top 10 countdown show, Total Request Live, which became known as TRL. The original host was Carson Daly.[74] The show included a live studio audience and was filmed in a windowed studio that allowed crowds to look in.[75] According to Nielsen, the average audience for the show was at its highest in 1999 and continued with strong numbers through 2001.[75] The program played the top ten pop, rock, R&B, and hip hop music videos, and featured live interviews with artists and celebrities.[75] In 2003, Carson Daly left MTV and TRL to focus on his late night talk show on NBC.[76] The series came to an end with a special finale episode, Total Finale Live, which aired November 16, 2008, and featured hosts and guests that previously appeared on the show.[77]
Boucher, Geoff; Gaither, Chris (July 7, 2005). "MTV Stung by Live 8 Criticism". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ "'MTV News' Deletes YouTube Video Telling "White Guys" What They Could Do Better In 2017 After Backlash". Retrieved December 30, 2016.
ABC's March Against Drugs Campaign / Comic Relief USA / Jac Venza (1997)
Caramanica, Jon (October 26, 2011). "Look Who's Trashing 'Jersey Shore' Now". The New York Times. Retrieved May 8, 2012.
^ "Director Hustles New Web Series". NewTeeVee. August 27, 2008. Archived from the original on August 18, 2010. Retrieved December 3, 2008.
"R.I.P. Cable TV: Why Hollywood Is Slowly Killing Its Biggest Moneymaker"
^ "MTV to Broadcast Spring Break Coverage Live". South Florida Sun-Sentinel. March 14, 1986. Archived from the original on February 3, 2013. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Frankel, Daniel (September 15, 2008). "MTV to retire 'TRL'". Variety. Archived from the original on June 4, 2009. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
"'MTV News' Deletes YouTube Video Telling "White Guys" What They Could Do Better In 2017 After Backlash"
^ Vena, Jocelyn (August 15, 2011). "Lady Gaga's 'Yoü And I' Video To Premiere Thursday on MTV". MTV News. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
"MTVpress.com". MTVpress.com. May 29, 2008. Archived from the original on August 29, 2008. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
^ Williams, Casey (February 1, 2005). "MTV Smut Peddlers: Targeting Kids with Sex, Drugs, and Alcohol" (PDF). ParentsTV.org. Parents Television Council. Archived from the original (PDF) on February 17, 2007. Retrieved May 19, 2007.
"Scream Series (Finally) Returns in July on New Network – Watch First Trailer"
MTV's traveling "Choose or Lose" vehicle brings politics. Salon. "Archived copy". Archived from the original on February 8, 2007. Retrieved November 25, 2006.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
"MTV has paved the way for a host of invaders from abroad: Def Leppard, Adam Ant, Madness, Eurythmics, the Fixx and Billy Idol, to name a few. In return, grateful Brits, even superstars like Pete Townshend and the Police, have mugged for MTV promo spots and made the phrase 'I want my MTV' a household commonplace."
"The Fall Of 'TRL' And The Rise of Internet Video"
^ "Katy Perry Brings 'Wide Awake' Video To MTV!". MTV. June 13, 2012. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Nuzum, Eric (2001). Parental Advisory: Music Censorship in America. HarperCollins. pp. 91–92. ISBN 0-688-16772-1.
^ a b Stelter, Brian (March 29, 2009). "MTV to Put a Bit More Music Back, in the A.M.". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 1, 2009. Retrieved March 29, 2009.
The advent of satellite television and digital cable brought MTV greater channel diversity, including its current sister channels MTV2 and Spanish-speaking MTV Tr3́s (now Tr3́s), which initially played music videos exclusively but now focus on other programming. MTV also formerly broadcast MTVU on campuses at various universities until 2018, when the MTV Networks on Campus division was sold, and the channel remained as a digital cable channel only. MTV used to also have MTV Hits and MTVX channels until these were converted into NickMusic and MTV Jams, respectively. MTV Jams was later rebranded as BET Jams in 2015.
"Memory Lane...Inside MTV Studios During Their First Month On Air". Eyes Of A Generation...Television's Living History. Retrieved November 15, 2022.
Grillo, Lauren. "MTV". Power of 12. Archived from the original on November 4, 2013. Retrieved August 14, 2012.
^ "How Tumblr and MTV Killed the Neon Anti-Corporate Aesthetic of Vaporwave | Motherboard". Motherboard.vice.com. June 26, 2015. Retrieved December 8, 2016.
The channel later expanded its beach-themed events to the summer, dedicating most of each summer season to broadcasting live from a beach house at different locations away from New York City, eventually leading to channel-wide branding throughout the summer in the 1990s and early 2000s such as Motel California, Summer Share, Isle of MTV, SoCal Summer, Summer in the Keys, and Shore Thing. MTV VJs hosted blocks of music videos, interview artists and bands, and introduced live performances and other programs from the beach house location each summer.[56]
Monopoly Television: MTV's Quest to Control the Music, pp. 48–50
^ a b Vidani, Peter. "More Than 75,000 Times". Fredseibert.com. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
"'MTV News' Deletes YouTube Video Telling "White Guys" What They Could Do Better In 2017 After Backlash". Retrieved December 30, 2016.
Chasmar, Jessica. "MTV News offers '2017 resolutions for white guys': 'Blue Lives Matter isn't a thing'". The Washington Times. Archived from the original on February 25, 2021. Retrieved December 30, 2016.
Before 1983, Michael Jackson also struggled for MTV airtime.[166] To resolve the struggle and finally "break the color barrier", the president of CBS Records, Walter Yetnikoff, denounced MTV in a strong, profane statement, threatening to take away its right to play any of the label's music.[166][167] However, Les Garland, then acquisitions head, said he decided to air Jackson's "Billie Jean" video without pressure from CBS,[161] a statement later contradicted by CBS head of Business Affairs David Benjamin in Vanity Fair.[24]
"Watch MTV's 'Adam Yauch: Remembering A Beastie Boy' Memorial On Demand"
Serge Denisoff, R (January 1, 1988). Inside MTV, p. 97. Transaction Publishers. ISBN 978-0-88738-864-4.
In April 2008, PTC released The Rap on Rap, a study covering hip-hop and R&B music videos rotated on programs 106 & Park and Rap City, both shown on BET, and Sucker Free on MTV. PTC urged advertisers to withdraw sponsorship of those programs, whose videos PTC stated targeted children and teenagers containing adult content.[193][194]
"For This MTV VJ, Music Paved The Way To An Out And Happy Life"
Steinberg, Brian (April 21, 2016). "MTV Chief Vows to Restore Music to Programming". Variety.
^ "More adds, loose ends, and lament". The 120 Minutes Archive. July 25, 2009. Archived from the original on December 4, 2012. Retrieved July 26, 2009.
During MTV's first few years, very few black artists were featured. The select few in MTV's rotation between 1981 and 1984 were Michael Jackson, Prince, Eddy Grant, Tina Turner, Donna Summer, Joan Armatrading, Musical Youth, The Specials, Living Color, The Selecter, Grace Jones, John Butcher and Herbie Hancock. Mikey Craig of Culture Club, Joe Leeway of Thompson Twins and Tracy Wormworth of The Waitresses were also black. The Specials, which included black and white vocalists and musicians, were also the first act with people of color to perform on MTV; their song "Rat Race" was the 58th video on the station's first broadcast day.[160]
6Beyond MTV											Toggle Beyond MTV subsection																					6.1Sister channels in the US																											6.2Internet
^ Kaufman, Gil (December 1, 2009). "'Jersey Shore' Castmember Defends Show Against Detractors". MTV.com. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ "Rock is dead and well at the MTV Video Awards". Salon. September 8, 2000. Archived from the original on January 14, 2009. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
"Meet the Family: Sharon". The Osbournes. MTV.com. Archived from the original on April 13, 2009. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
"Need To Know: Sam Smith Drops 'I'm Not The Only One' Video"
"MTV Radion on the way". Adage.com. July 20, 1995. Retrieved January 7, 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Single (Extended play (EP), 12" single, Cassette single, CD single, Maxi single)
"MTV to Broadcast Spring Break Coverage Live". South Florida Sun-Sentinel. March 14, 1986. Archived from the original on February 3, 2013. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Banks, Jack (April 1996). Monopoly Television: MTV's Quest to Control the Music, pp. 48–50. Westview Press. ISBN 978-0-8133-1821-9.[permanent dead link]
Aurthur, Michael Schneider, Kate; Schneider, Michael; Aurthur, Kate (July 21, 2020). "R.I.P. Cable TV: Why Hollywood Is Slowly Killing Its Biggest Moneymaker". Variety. Retrieved July 25, 2022.
^ Devora, Abby. "Need To Know: Sam Smith Drops 'I'm Not The Only One' Video". MTV.com.
^ "ItalianAware.com". ItalianAware.com. Archived from the original on January 31, 2019. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
MTV has edited a number of music videos to remove references to drugs,[173] sex, violence, weapons, racism, homophobia, and/or advertising.[174] Many music videos aired on the channel were either censored, moved to late-night rotation, or banned entirely from the channel.
Hoye, Jacob; Levin, David P.; Cohn, Stuart (2001). Amazon.com. ISBN 0743426827.
el greco (May 29, 2009). "More on MTV's 'Dude, This Sucks'". THAT TIME HAS COME. Blogger. Retrieved October 2, 2010.
In 1974, Gary Van Haas, vice president of Televak Corporation, created Music Video TV, a channel with video disc jockeys, to be shown in record stores across the United States, and promoted it to distributors and retailers in a May 1974 issue of Billboard.[12][13]
On February 5, 2021, MTV began to use a revised logo in tandem with the 2010 version, doing away with the 3D effect inherited from its predecessors (much akin to the current MTV Video Music Awards variant).[153] That logo is revealed to be an alternate variant of the current logo designed by the design agency Loyalkaspar, which pays homage to MTV of the past with the red-yellow-blue color combination and the 3D effect mainly inherited from its predecessor logo. The new logo's rollout was completed in time for the 2021 MTV Video Music Awards.[citation needed]
During the 1989 MTV Video Music Awards ceremony, comedian Andrew Dice Clay did his usual "adult nursery rhymes" routine (which he had done in his stand-up acts), after which the network executives imposed a lifetime ban. Billy Idol's music video for the song "Cradle of Love" originally had scenes from Clay's film The Adventures of Ford Fairlane when it was originally aired; scenes from the film were later excised. During the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards, Clay was in attendance where he confirmed that the channel lifted the ban.[179]
In 1992, MTV started a pro-democracy campaign called Choose or Lose, to encourage over 20 million people to register to vote, and the channel hosted a town hall forum for then-candidate Bill Clinton.[210]
Vidani, Peter. ""I Want My MTV! Part 3" Fred Seibert dot com". Fredseibert.com. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
^ "MTV Turning SCREAM Franchise into a TV Series (June 4, 2012)". Collider. June 4, 2012. Archived from the original on September 28, 2020. Retrieved February 18, 2020.
Moss, Linda; Umstead, R. Thomas (April 10, 2008). "PTC Puts a Bad 'Rap' On BET, MTV". Multichannel news. Retrieved August 26, 2008.
^ a b c Boucher, Geoff; Gaither, Chris (July 7, 2005). "MTV Stung by Live 8 Criticism". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Jeckell, Barry (January 10, 2001). "MTV To Honor Janet Jackson". Billboard. Retrieved March 16, 2008.
MTV received significant criticism from Italian American organizations for Jersey Shore, which premiered in 2009.[195] The controversy was due in large part to the manner in which MTV marketed the show, as it liberally used the word "guido" to describe the cast members. The word "guido" is generally regarded as an ethnic slur when referring to Italians and Italian Americans. One promotion stated that the show was to follow, "eight of the hottest, tannest, craziest Guidos,"[196] while yet another advertisement stated, "Jersey Shore exposes one of the tri-state area's most misunderstood species ... the GUIDO. Yes, they really do exist! Our Guidos and Guidettes will move into the ultimate beach house rental and indulge in everything the Seaside Heights, New Jersey scene has to offer."[197]
^ "The 100 Greatest Moments in Rock Music: The '80s". Entertainment Weekly. May 1999. Archived from the original on December 27, 2014. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
MTV operates a group of channels under MTV Networks – a name that continues to be used for the individual units of the now Paramount Media Networks, a division of corporate parent Paramount Global. In 1985, MTV saw the introduction of its first regular sister channel, VH1, which was originally an acronym for "Video Hits One" and was designed to play adult contemporary music videos. From now on, VH1 is aimed at celebrity and popular culture programming which include many reality shows. Another sister channel, CMT, targets the southern culture market.
All the commercials were produced by Buzz Potamkin and his new company Buzzco Productions, directed first by Thomas Schlamme and Alan Goodman and eventually by Candy Kugel.[154]
The first music video on MTV, which at the time was only available to homes in New Jersey,[26] was the Buggles' "Video Killed the Radio Star". It was followed by Pat Benatar's "You Better Run". Occasionally the screen went black when an employee at MTV inserted a tape into a VCR.[27] MTV's lower third graphics near the beginnings and ends of videos eventually used the recognizable Kabel typeface for about 25 years; but they varied on MTV's first day, set in a different typeface, and including details such as the song's year and record label. MTV's on-air programming was originally produced from the Teletronics studio facility at West 33rd Street in Manhattan, NY; programming was uplinked to satellite from a facility in Hauppauge, NY that also served as the uplink for sister networks Nickelodeon and The Movie Channel (originally, then-owner Warner-Amex Satellite Entertainment had planned to uplink MTV from a facility located at the studios of WIVB-TV in Buffalo, NY, where Nickelodeon and The Movie Channel had been uplinked; said facility was planned to be expanded to handle MTV's needs, but the deal with WIVB fell apart when Warner-Amex was unable to reach a deal with channel 4's ownership concerning a long-term lease).[28][29] MTV later moved studio facilities to Unitel Video's complex located on 57th Street (ironically located across the street from the CBS Broadcast Center, owned by future corporate sibling CBS) in 1987, remaining until 1995 when MTV chose to begin producing studio content in-house.[30]
Mark Goodman, Nina Blackwood, Alan Hunter interviewed on Stuck in the '80s podcast
^ Lafayette, Jon (April 21, 2016). "MTV Marking Prince's Death at Upfront". Broadcasting & Cable. Retrieved April 21, 2016.
Littleton, Cynthia (November 11, 2020). "Can These Execs Save ViacomCBS' Storied Cable Brands?". Variety. Retrieved November 18, 2021.
In December 2016, MTV online published a social justice-oriented New Year's resolution-themed video directed towards white men. The video caused widespread outrage online, including video responses from well-known online personas, and was deleted from MTV's YouTube channel.[205][206] The video was then reuploaded to their channel, with MTV claiming the new video contained "updated graphical elements". The new video quickly received over 10,000 dislikes and fewer than 100 likes from only 20,000 views, and MTV deleted the video for a second time.[207][208]
Denhart, Andy (May 1, 2020). "Why doesn't MTV repeat The Challenge when it airs Ridiculousness a ridiculous amount?". Reality Blurred. Retrieved January 7, 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ "MTV, Craig Brewer team up for online drama". Commercial Appeal. July 10, 2008. Archived from the original on August 24, 2013. Retrieved December 3, 2008.
^ Anitai, Tamar (May 4, 2012). "Watch MTV's 'Adam Yauch: Remembering A Beastie Boy' Memorial On Demand". MTV. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ "MTV Dis(miss)es Rock in Favor of Hip Hop". Antimusic.com. May 9, 2002. Archived from the original on May 22, 2011. Retrieved June 8, 2010.
^ Arango, Tim (April 18, 2009). "Make Room, Cynics; MTV Wants to Do Some Good". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 21, 2009. Retrieved April 20, 2009.
"MTV Classic bringing The 2011 Beavis and Butt-Head, Aeon Flux and music videos back on-air". Polygon. Vox Media. July 28, 2016. Retrieved July 29, 2016.
In addition to its regular programming, MTV has a long history of promoting social, political, and environmental activism in young people.[209] The channel's vehicles for this activism have been Choose or Lose, encompassing political causes and encouraging viewers to vote in elections; Fight For Your Rights, encompassing anti-violence and anti-discrimination causes; think MTV; and MTV Act and Power of 12, the newest umbrellas for MTV's social activism.
^ "MTV Timeline". thepub.viacom.com. Archived from the original on February 6, 2016. Retrieved April 19, 2016.
In 2010, a study by the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation found that of 207.5 hours of prime time programming on MTV, 42% included content reflecting the lives of gay, bisexual and transgender people. This was the highest in the industry and the highest percentage ever.[138]
"Aerosmith, N'Sync add spice to MTV-driven halftime show". Sports Illustrated. Associated Press. January 28, 2001. Archived from the original on February 26, 2008. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
Legally Blonde: The Musical – The Search for Elle Woods (2008)
"MTV won't say how old it is (but it's 25): A list of Music Television's notable moments"
^ "Niche Genres, Music Information are Focus of MTV Lineup". Billboard. May 8, 1999.
^ Marks, Craig & Tannebaum, Rob, I Want My MTV, Penguin Books, 2011, pp. 167–168
Williams 2005, p. 8 In this case, a reference to crack cocaine was removed from the video for "My Band" by D12.
^ "MTV To Launch Artists.MTV Music Hub". MTV News. March 15, 2012. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
PSAs and promotion of charitable causes and NFPs were woven into the MTV fabric. In 1985, MTV spearheaded a safe-sex initiative, in response to the AIDS epidemic, when it was perceived that many teens might be more receptive to the message there than from their parents. Its safe-sex campaign continues today as "It's Your Sex Life".[53]
Nuzum, Eric (2001). Parental Advisory: Music Censorship in America. HarperCollins. pp. 91–92. ISBN 0-688-16772-1.
As MTV expanded, music videos and VJ-guided programming were no longer the centerpiece of its programming. The channel's programming has covered a wide variety of genres and formats aimed at adolescents and young adults. In addition to its original programming, MTV has also aired original and syndicated programs from Paramount-owned siblings and third-party networks.[132][133][134][135]
MTV is aligned with Rock the Vote, a campaign to motivate young adults to register and vote.[216]
^ "MTV launches - Aug 01, 1981 - HISTORY.com". HISTORY.com. Retrieved April 19, 2016.
On August 1, 2016, the 35th anniversary of the original MTV's launch, VH1 Classic was rebranded as MTV Classic. The channel's programming focused on classic music videos and programming (including notable episodes of MTV Unplugged and VH1 Storytellers), but skews more towards the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. The network aired encores of former MTV series such as Beavis and Butt-Head and Laguna Beach: The Real Orange County. The network's relaunch included a broadcast of MTV's first hour on the air, which was also simulcast on MTV and online via Facebook live streaming.[221][222] MTV Classic only retained three original VH1 Classic programs, which were That Metal Show, Metal Evolution, and Behind the Music Remastered, although repeats of current and former VH1 programs such as Pop-Up Video and VH1 Storytellers remained on the schedule. However, the rebranded MTV Classic had few viewers, and declined quickly to become the least-watched English-language subscription network rated by Nielsen at the end of 2016. At the start of 2017, it was reorganized into an all-video network.[223][224]
"This is how David Bowie confronted MTV when it was still ignoring black artists"
"MTV Turning SCREAM Franchise into a TV Series (June 4, 2012)". Collider. June 4, 2012. Archived from the original on September 28, 2020. Retrieved February 18, 2020.
^ "MTV marks 40th anniversary with a new 'Moon Person' design". Associated Press. Retrieved August 2, 2021.
^ "Teens Sue MTV Over Defecation Incident?". Billboard. April 6, 2001. Retrieved October 2, 2010.
MTV's earliest format was modeled after AOR (album-oriented rock) radio. It underwent a transition to emulate a full Top 40 station in 1984. Fresh-faced young men and women hosted its programming and introduced videos. Many VJs became celebrities in their own right. MTV's five original VJs in 1981 were Nina Blackwood, Mark Goodman, Alan Hunter, J. J. Jackson and Martha Quinn. Popular New York DJ Meg Griffin was going to be a VJ, but decided against it at the last minute. The VJs were hired to fit certain demographics the channel was trying to obtain: Goodman was the affable everyman; Hunter, the popular jock; Jackson, the hip radio veteran; Blackwood, the bombshell vixen; and Quinn, the girl next door. Due to uncertainty around the channel's success, the VJs were told not to buy permanent residences and to keep their second jobs.[43]
^ Journal wire services, From Beacon. "QUINN RETURNS TO MTV TO HOST `DEJA VIDEO'." Akron Beacon Journal (OH), 1 STAR ed., sec. ENTERTAIN, February 14, 1989, p. B4. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/0EB629B8D011ABB0. Accessed February 9, 2020.
^ Vargas, Jose Antonio, "Vote or Die? Well, They Did Vote." Washingtonpost.com, November 9, 2004. Retrieved on 2006-04-14.
D'Angelo, Joe. "Mariah, Jane's Addiction, TLC Slated For MTV Birthday Bash". MTV.com.
^ Pallotta, Frank (April 21, 2016). "MTV reboots 'MTV Unplugged,' introduces weekly live music series". Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Along with VH1, MTV broadcast the Live 8 concerts, a series of concerts set in the G8 states and South Africa, on July 2, 2005.[60] Live 8 preceded the 31st G8 summit and the 20th anniversary of Live Aid. MTV drew heavy criticism for its coverage of Live 8. The network cut to commercials, VJ commentary, or other performances during performances. Complaints surfaced on the Internet over MTV interrupting the reunion of Pink Floyd.[61] In response, MTV president Van Toffler stated that he wanted to broadcast highlights from every venue of Live 8 on MTV and VH1, and clarified that network hosts talked over performances only in transition to commercials, informative segments or other musical performances.[62] Toffler acknowledged that "MTV should not have placed such a high priority on showing so many acts, at the expense of airing complete sets by key artists."[61] He also blamed the Pink Floyd interruption on a mandatory cable affiliate break.[62] MTV averaged 1.4 million viewers for its original July 2 broadcast of Live 8.[61] Consequently, MTV and VH1 aired five hours of uninterrupted Live 8 coverage on July 9, with each channel airing other blocks of artists.[63]
When CBS aired Super Bowl XXXVIII in 2004, MTV was again chosen to produce the halftime show, with performances by such artists as Nelly, P. Diddy, Janet Jackson, and Justin Timberlake. The show became controversial, however, after Timberlake tore off part of Jackson's outfit while performing "Rock Your Body" with her, revealing her right breast. All involved parties apologized for the incident, and Timberlake referred to the incident as a "wardrobe malfunction".[186]
"Mary + Jane Season 1 Episode 4 Review & After Show w/ Scout Durwood"
"MTV, Craig Brewer team up for online drama". Commercial Appeal. July 10, 2008. Archived from the original on August 24, 2013. Retrieved December 3, 2008.
"More adds, loose ends, and lament". The 120 Minutes Archive. July 25, 2009. Archived from the original on December 4, 2012. Retrieved July 26, 2009.
^ Kaufman, Gil (June 29, 2005). "Live Aid: A Look Back At A Concert That Actually Changed The World". MTV News. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Erlewine, Stephen Thomas (2007). "Duran Duran – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
^ "Live 8 Concerts Will Air on MTV, VH1". MTV News. June 23, 2005. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ a b "Why it took MTV so long to play black music videos". Jet. 2006. Archived from the original on August 2, 2013.
^ "MTV Act". Act.mtv.com. August 10, 2012. Retrieved August 14, 2012.
Vidani, Peter. "More Than 75,000 Times". Fredseibert.com. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
Williams, Kori (April 27, 2021). "MTV Plays 'Ridiculousness' Enough to Last Us a Lifetime". Distractify. Retrieved July 25, 2022.
^ Marikar, Sheila (September 7, 2011). "Andrew Dice Clay: Lady Gaga's Jo Calderone Is Me". ABC News. Retrieved December 30, 2011.
"MTV – You're Hired". lasplash.com. April 24, 2010. Archived from the original on October 24, 2019. Retrieved May 4, 2010.
^ "Cable Network Coverage Area Household Universe Estimates: January 2016". Archived from the original on December 2, 2017. Retrieved August 21, 2017.
"Music Television and Its Influences on Consumer Culture, and the Transmission of Consumption Messages"
Crupi, Anthony (April 10, 2008). "PTC Blasts MTV, BET". Mediaweek. Archived from the original on April 22, 2008. Retrieved August 26, 2008.
^ "Media Visions - iTV | Warner's Qube". www.media-visions.com. Retrieved February 4, 2023.
"MTV.com – On-Air – MTV Week at a Glance". MTV. Archived from the original on May 16, 2007.
^ D'Angelo, Joe. "Mariah, Jane's Addiction, TLC Slated For MTV Birthday Bash". MTV.com.
^ "About us". Rock the Vote. Retrieved May 18, 2019.
^ el greco (May 29, 2009). "More on MTV's 'Dude, This Sucks'". THAT TIME HAS COME. Blogger. Retrieved October 2, 2010.
"MTV today announced the launch of the new hybrid channel, "MTV Overdrive"". Archived from the original on November 6, 2008. Retrieved August 11, 2008.
^ Englis, Basil G. (1991). "Music Television and Its Influences on Consumer Culture, and the Transmission of Consumption Messages". ACR North American Advances. NA-18.
Prior to Total Request Live ending its run in 2008, MTV was experimenting with its remaining music programming under new formats.[99] MTV first premiered a new music video programming block called FNMTV, and a weekly special event called FNMTV Premieres, hosted from Los Angeles by Pete Wentz of the band Fall Out Boy, which was designed to premiere new music videos and have viewers provide instantaneous feedback.[100] AMTV, an early morning block, debuted in 2009.[101] The block would rebrand as Music Feed in 2013 with a reduced schedule and, unlike FNMTV, featured many full-length music videos, news updates, interviews, and performances.[101] MTV would continue to air music programming over the next decade, with the return of MTV Unplugged in 2009,[102][103] the debut of 10 on Top in May 2010,[104] and Hip Hop POV on April 12, 2012.[105]
^ "Everyone Wants To Be A VJ". www.cbsnews.com. Retrieved March 29, 2019.
From the late 1990s to the early 2000s, MTV updated its on-air appearance at the beginning of every year and each summer, creating a consistent brand across all of its music-related shows. This style of channel-wide branding came to an end as MTV drastically reduced its number of music-related shows in the early to mid 2000s. Around this time, MTV introduced a static and single color digital on-screen graphic mainly grey during on-air and some color to be shown during all of its programming.
Swift, Andy (June 24, 2019). "Scream Series (Finally) Returns in July on New Network – Watch First Trailer". TVLine. Retrieved June 24, 2019.
"That Time Billy Squier Made An MTV Singalong A Hit Christmas Song | 100.7 WZLX". Chuck Nowlin. Retrieved November 15, 2022.
^ MTV's traveling "Choose or Lose" vehicle brings politics. Salon. "Archived copy". Archived from the original on February 8, 2007. Retrieved November 25, 2006.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
"How Tumblr and MTV Killed the Neon Anti-Corporate Aesthetic of Vaporwave | Motherboard"
^ "MTV Rebrand Case Study". LK. Retrieved September 8, 2022.
^ a b Cave, Damien (February 23, 2004). "MTV Under Attack by FCC". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on December 6, 2008. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
"Media Visions - iTV | Warner's Qube". www.media-visions.com. Retrieved February 4, 2023.
"MTV Networks' MHD: Music High-Definition Channel Kicks Into High Gear With New Programming and a New Name – Palladia".
Beginning in late 1997, MTV progressively reduced its airing of rock music videos, leading to the slogan among skeptics, "Rock is dead."[70] Two years later, in the fall of 1999, MTV announced a special Return of the Rock weekend,[71] in which new rock acts received airtime, after which a compilation album was released.
Around 1999 through 2001, as MTV aired fewer music videos throughout the day, it regularly aired compilation specials from its then 20-year history to look back on its roots. An all-encompassing special, MTV Uncensored, premiered in 1999 and was later released as a book.[83][84]
^ Steinberg, Brian (April 21, 2016). "MTV Chief Vows to Restore Music to Programming". Variety.
Vidani, Peter. ""I Want My MTV!" Fred Seibert dot com". Fredseibert.com. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
^ Denhart, Andy (May 1, 2020). "Why doesn't MTV repeat The Challenge when it airs Ridiculousness a ridiculous amount?". Reality Blurred. Retrieved January 7, 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ "Censorship & Scandals: Beavis & Butt-head". Archived from the original on November 19, 2012.
Feeney, Nolan (January 31, 2014). "The Legacy of Janet Jackson's Boob". The Atlantic. Retrieved April 19, 2016.
^ "MTV Launches MTV Studios with 'Daria', 'Made', 'Real World' & 'Aeon Flux' Revivals". June 21, 2018.
The channel has been a target of criticism by different groups about programming choices, social issues, political correctness, sensitivity, censorship, and a perceived negative social influence on young people.[157] Portions of the content of MTV's programs and productions have come under controversy in the general news media and among social groups that have taken offense. Some within the music industry criticized what they saw as MTV's homogenization of rock 'n' roll, including the punk band the Dead Kennedys, whose song "M.T.V. – Get Off the Air" was released on their 1985 album Frankenchrist, just as MTV's influence over the music industry was being solidified.[158] MTV was also the major influence on the growth of music videos during the 1980s.[159]
^ Molanphy, Chris (July 29, 2011). "100 & Single: The Dawning Of The MTV Era And How It Rocket-Fueled The Hot 100". Village Voice. Archived from the original on October 20, 2013. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
In the late 1980s, before the World Wide Web, MTV VJ Adam Curry began experimenting on the Internet. He registered the then-unclaimed domain name "MTV.com" in 1993 with the idea of being MTV's unofficial new voice on the Internet. Although this move was sanctioned by his supervisors at MTV Networks at the time, when Curry left to start his own web-portal design and hosting company, MTV subsequently sued him for the domain name, which led to an out-of-court settlement.[225]
Pittman, Robert (July 28, 1991). "Cover Story – The Man Behind the Monster". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
"Live Aid: A Look Back At A Concert That Actually Changed The World"
Mike Judge (2005). Beavis and Butt-head: The Mike Judge Collection Volume 1 Taint to Greatness the Journey of Beavis and Butt-head (Part 1).
White, Peter (July 1, 2021). "Chris McCarthy, Brian Robbins & George Cheeks Promoted As ViacomCBS Moves International Units Under Purview Of U.S. Execs". Deadline Hollywood. Retrieved November 18, 2021.
^ MAYHEW, MALCOLM. "The 10 most memorable VJs." Fort Worth Star-Telegram (TX), FINAL ed., sec. LIFE & ARTS, 1 Aug. 2001, p. 1. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/0EDA3934EE580E6B. Accessed 17 Mar. 2021.
Following Jackson's and Prince's breakthroughs on MTV, Rick James did several interviews where he brushed off the accomplishment as tokenism, saying in a 1983 interview, in an episode of Mike Judge Presents: Tales from the Tour Bus on James, that "any black artist that [had] their video played on MTV should pull their [videos] off MTV."[170]
^ "Jersey Shore finale breaks ratings for MTV". Los Angeles Times. January 22, 2010. Retrieved May 13, 2010.
"Background: Where it Started". Hardline Media Video Productions. Retrieved January 7, 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ a b Koblin, John (July 30, 2017). "MTV Mines the Past for Its Future: 'Total Request Live'". The New York Times. Archived from the original on July 30, 2017. Retrieved July 31, 2017.
^ "Background: Where it Started". Hardline Media Video Productions. Retrieved January 7, 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Mike Judge (2005). Beavis and Butt-head: The Mike Judge Collection Volume 1 Taint to Greatness the Journey of Beavis and Butt-head (Part 1).
"Fury Erupts Online After MTV Suggests New Year's Resolutions For White Guys". December 20, 2016. Retrieved December 30, 2016.
Barnes, Brokes (June 25, 2009). "A Star Idolized and Haunted, Michael Jackson Dies at 50". The New York Times. Retrieved July 12, 2009.
^ Moore, Frazier (July 23, 2010). "Study: MTV leads in showing gay characters on television". silive.com.
Anitai, Tamar (May 4, 2012). "Watch MTV's 'Adam Yauch: Remembering A Beastie Boy' Memorial On Demand". MTV. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
In the wake of controversy that involved a child burning down his house after allegedly watching Beavis and Butt-head, MTV moved the show from its original 7 p.m. time slot to an 11 p.m. time slot. Also, Beavis's tendency to flick a lighter and yell "fire" was removed from new episodes, and controversial scenes were removed from existing episodes before their rebroadcast.[180] Some extensive edits were noted by series creator Mike Judge after compiling his Collection DVDs, saying that "some of those episodes may not even exist actually in their original form."[181]
"Rock is dead and well at the MTV Video Awards". Salon. September 8, 2000. Archived from the original on January 14, 2009. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
MTV has spawned numerous sister channels in the United States and affiliated channels internationally, some of which have since gone independent. Approximately 90.6 million households in the US received MTV as of January 2017.[6]
Kaufman, Gil (June 29, 2005). "Live Aid: A Look Back At A Concert That Actually Changed The World". MTV News. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
"How Tumblr and MTV Killed the Neon Anti-Corporate Aesthetic of Vaporwave"
^ Izadi, Elahe. "This is how David Bowie confronted MTV when it was still ignoring black artists". The Washington Post. Retrieved December 8, 2016.
Ryan, Maureen (July 10, 2005). "MTV defends Live 8 coverage". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on January 11, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2010.
Vena, Jocelyn (August 15, 2011). "Lady Gaga's 'Yoü And I' Video To Premiere Thursday on MTV". MTV News. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Kaufman, Gil (December 1, 2009). "'Jersey Shore' Castmember Defends Show Against Detractors". MTV.com. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Archived at Ghostarchive and the "Mary + Jane Season 1 Episode 4 Review & After Show w/ Scout Durwood". AfterBuzz TV. September 28, 2016. Archived from the original on February 2, 2017. Retrieved September 29, 2016 – via YouTube.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link): "Mary + Jane Season 1 Episode 4 Review & After Show w/ Scout Durwood". AfterBuzz TV. September 28, 2016. Retrieved September 29, 2016 – via YouTube.
Salamone, Gina (December 22, 2009). "Dell pulls ads from 'Jersey Shore'; MTV show loses another sponsor over claims of 'ethnic bashing'". New York: NYdailyNews.com. Archived from the original on December 25, 2009. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
Flashdance (1983) was the first film whose promoters supplied MTV with musical clips to compose promotional videos, which the channel included in its regular rotation.[51]
^ "Tumblr Launches "Tumblr TV," A GIF Search Engine With A Full-Screen Viewing Mode | TechCrunch". techcrunch.com. June 25, 2015. Retrieved December 8, 2016.
^ "MTV today announced the launch of the new hybrid channel, "MTV Overdrive"". Archived from the original on November 6, 2008. Retrieved August 11, 2008.
Mancini, Robert (September 29, 1999). "Coal Chamber Lines Up "Nothing" Tour". MTV News. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Janet Jackson became the inaugural honoree of the "MTV Icon" award, "an annual recognition of artists who have made significant contributions to music, music video and pop culture while tremendously impacting the MTV generation."[85] Subsequent recipients included Aerosmith, Metallica, and the Cure.
Lynch, Jason (October 24, 2016). "Chris McCarthy, President of VH1 and Logo, Will Now Also Head Up MTV". Adweek. Retrieved December 22, 2021.
^ "Scotsman.com Living". Archived from the original on July 10, 2012.
^ Ankeny, Jason (2007). "Weird Al Yankovic – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
^ "MTV Classic bringing The 2011 Beavis and Butt-Head, Aeon Flux and music videos back on-air". Polygon. Vox Media. July 28, 2016. Retrieved July 29, 2016.
^ Zahed, Ramin (December 20, 2000). "MTV's "Direct Effect"". Variety. Retrieved April 2, 2019.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"MTV drops 'Music Television' from the network logo". Los Angeles Times. February 8, 2010. Retrieved June 21, 2012.
^ Bernstein, Fred (October 17, 1983). "A Hard Day's Night with MTV's Video Jocks". People Magazine. Archived from the original on August 22, 2016. Retrieved June 22, 2012.
MTV refused other black artists' videos, such as Rick James' "Super Freak", because they did not fit the channel's carefully selected album-oriented rock format at the time. The exclusion enraged James, who publicly advocated the addition of more black artists to the channel. David Bowie also questioned MTV's lack of black artists during an on-air interview with VJ Mark Goodman in 1983.[161] MTV's original head of talent and acquisition, Carolyn B. Baker, who was black, questioned why the definition of music had to be so narrow, as did a few others outside the network. Years later, Baker said, "The party line at MTV was that we weren't playing black music because of the research' – but the research was based on ignorance… We were young, we were cutting-edge. We didn't have to be on the cutting edge of racism." Nevertheless, it was Baker who rejected Rick James' Super Freak video "because there were half-naked women in it, and it was a piece of crap. As a black woman, I did not want that representing my people as the first black video on MTV."[162]
USA's Erase the Hate Campaign / Turner's Native American Initiative (1996)
5Social activism											Toggle Social activism subsection																					5.1Choose or Lose																											5.2Rock the Vote																											5.3MTV Act and Power of 12																											5.4Elect This
"MTV, VH1 to Air Live 8 Performances Uninterrupted". MTV News. July 7, 2005. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Swift, Andy (June 24, 2019). "Scream Series (Finally) Returns in July on New Network – Watch First Trailer". TVLine. Retrieved June 24, 2019.
The campaign featured popular artists and celebrities, including Pete Townshend, Pat Benatar, Adam Ant, David Bowie, the Police, Kiss, Culture Club, Billy Idol, Hall & Oates, Cyndi Lauper, Madonna, Lionel Richie, Ric Ocasek, John Mellencamp, Peter Wolf, Joe Elliott, Stevie Nicks, Rick Springfield, and Mick Jagger, interacting with the MTV logo on-air and encouraging viewers to call their pay television providers and request that MTV be added to their local channel lineups.[142] Eventually, the slogan became so ubiquitous that it made an appearance as a lyric sung by Sting on the Dire Straits song "Money for Nothing", whose music video aired in regular rotation on MTV when it was first released in 1985, which became the basis of the music used in the MTV Entertainment Studios production logo.
"100 & Single: The Dawning Of The MTV Era And How It Rocket-Fueled The Hot 100"
Litwak, Mark (1986). Reel Power: The Struggle for Influence and Success in the New Hollywood. New York: William Morrow & Co. p. 245. ISBN 0-688-04889-7.
"MTV Timeline". thepub.viacom.com. Archived from the original on February 6, 2016. Retrieved April 19, 2016.
"MTV To Launch Artists.MTV Music Hub". MTV News. March 15, 2012. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Seideman, Tony (1984). "Changes in MTV Playlist (expansion to seven categories)". Billboard. No. November 3, 1984. p. 42.
^ a b "There's No Music Television in MTV's New Logo". Flavorwire. February 8, 2010.
^ The Punk, Donny (February 1986). "The Dead Kennedys' State of Confusion". Spin Magazine. Retrieved May 25, 2013.
1986 brought the departures of three of the five original VJs, as J. J. Jackson moved back to Los Angeles and returned to radio, while Nina Blackwood moved on to pursue new roles in television.[64][65] Martha Quinn's contract was not renewed in late 1986 and she departed the network.[64] She was brought back in early 1989 and stayed until 1992.[66][67] Downtown Julie Brown was hired as the first new VJ as a replacement. In mid-1987, Alan Hunter and Mark Goodman ceased being full-time MTV veejays.[68][69]
^ "Life As We Know It: Natural Disasters". TV.com. Archived from the original on February 25, 2021. Retrieved August 3, 2007.
^ Simon Reynolds, Rip It Up and Start Again Postpunk 1978–1984, pp. 340, 342–3.
Maher, John. "From the Archives: Qube Comes to Columbus". Columbus Monthly. Retrieved February 4, 2023.
MTV (originally an initialism of Music Television) is a 24-hour American cable music video channel officially launched on August 1, 1981. Based in New York City, it serves as the flagship property of the MTV Entertainment Group, part of Paramount Media Networks, a division of Paramount Global.
"Anglomania: The Second British Invasion". Rolling Stone. Retrieved April 29, 2019.
"TV Notebook." Providence Journal (RI), ALL ed., sec. TV, June 14, 1987, pp. T-02. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/15252B20F54B8A18. Accessed April 6, 2020.
Koblin, John (May 17, 2020). "As Cable TV Fades, Fearing 'the End of Comedy Central'". The New York Times. Archived from the original on May 17, 2020.
^ "MTV takes over beach". Associated Press. July 22, 2000. Archived from the original on July 3, 2017. Retrieved June 22, 2012.
^ a b Ryan, Maureen (July 10, 2005). "MTV defends Live 8 coverage". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on January 11, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2010.
^ Koblin, John (May 17, 2020). "As Cable TV Fades, Fearing 'the End of Comedy Central'". The New York Times. Archived from the original on May 17, 2020.
"FCC sticks by Janet Jackson Super Bowl fine". MSNBC. Associated Press. February 22, 2006.
"Teens Sue MTV Over Defecation Incident?". Billboard. April 6, 2001. Retrieved October 2, 2010.
Langhorne, Cyrus (March 8, 2012). "MTV Announces New Late Night Rap Show, Recruits Charlamagne Tha God". Sohh.Com. Archived from the original on May 11, 2012. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
TBS founder Ted Turner started the Cable Music Channel in 1984, designed to play a broader mix of music videos than MTV's rock format allowed. But after one month as a money-losing venture, Turner sold it to MTV, who redeveloped the channel into VH1.[172]
"MTV plans big New Year's Eve bash". Digital Spy. December 2, 2003. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ a b Robert Sam Anson (June 4, 2008). "Birth of an MTV Nation". Vanity Fair.
The network's director of music programming, Buzz Brindle, told an interviewer in 2006: "MTV was originally designed to be a rock music channel. It was difficult for MTV to find African American artists whose music fit the channel's format that leaned toward rock at the outset." Writers Craig Marks and Rob Tannenbaum noted that the channel "aired videos by plenty of white artists who didn't play rock." Andrew Goodwin later wrote: "[MTV] denied racism, on the grounds that it merely followed the rules of the rock business."[163] MTV senior executive vice president Les Garland complained decades later, "The worst thing was that 'racism' bullshit ... there were hardly any videos being made by black artists. Record companies weren't funding them. They never got charged with racism." However, critics of that defence pointed out that record companies were not funding videos for black artists because they knew they would have difficulty persuading MTV to play them.[164]
"Dell pulls ads from 'Jersey Shore'; MTV show loses another sponsor over claims of 'ethnic bashing'"
^ Wong, Curtis M. (July 15, 2016). "For This MTV VJ, Music Paved The Way To An Out And Happy Life". HuffPost. Retrieved March 29, 2019.
"MTV lands acts for new music week". The Boston Globe. October 26, 1999. Retrieved June 22, 2012.
MTV is also a producer of films aimed at young adults through its production label, MTV Films, and has aired both its own theatrically released films and original made-for-television movies from MTV Studios in addition to acquired films.[136][137]
^ "Show over for MTV's The Osbournes". BBC News. November 19, 2004. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
^ Hoye, Jacob; Levin, David P.; Cohn, Stuart (2001). Amazon.com. ISBN 0743426827.
In 2018, MTV launched a new production unit under the MTV Studios name focused on producing new versions of MTV's library shows. This was later renamed MTV Entertainment Studios.[139]
Weprin, Alex (June 25, 2008). "Breaking Tradition, MTV to Accept Political Advertising". Broadcasting & Cable. Retrieved June 25, 2008.
In January 2006, MTV launched MTV HD, a 1080i high-definition simulcast feed of MTV. Until Viacom's main master control was upgraded in 2013, only the network's original series after 2010 (with some pre-2010 content) are broadcast in high definition, while music videos, despite being among the first television works to convert to high definition presentation in the mid-2000s, were presented in 4:3 standard definition, forcing them into a windowboxing type of presentation; since that time, all music videos are presented in HD and are framed to their director's preference. Jersey Shore, despite being shot with widescreen HD cameras, was also presented with SD windowboxing (though the 2018 Family Vacation revival is in full HD). The vast majority of providers carry MTV HD.
Magyar Televízió, Hungary's public broadcaster who has a trademark on the initials MTV, registered with the Hungarian copyright office, sued the American MTV (Music Television) network for trademark infringement when the Hungarian version of the music channel was launched in 2007.The suit is still ongoing.[citation needed]
Moore, Frazier (July 23, 2010). "Study: MTV leads in showing gay characters on television". silive.com.
^ "The Cable Center May 2, 2019". Archived from the original on February 9, 2021. Retrieved September 26, 2020.
^ Cichon, Steve. "Buffalo in the '70s: The home of Nickelodeon (and almost MTV)". Buffalo News. Retrieved November 15, 2022.
^ Dishman, Lydia (June 25, 2016). "MTV International Turns The Lens On Its Audience With New "I Am My MTV" Rebrand". Retrieved April 24, 2016.
—Anglomania: The Second British Invasion, by Parke Puterbaugh for Rolling Stone, November 1983.[31]
^ a b "The Creation of an Icon: MTV". Animation World Magazine. January 1, 1998.
Prato, Greg (2011). MTV Ruled the World: The Early Years of Music Video. Createspace. ISBN 0-578-07197-5.
"Carson Daly Looks Back as TRL Counts Down its Final Days". TVGuide.com. November 14, 2008. Retrieved February 24, 2020.
Billboard – Google Books. May 25, 1974. Retrieved May 19, 2014.
^ "The Museum Broadcast Communications – Bob Pittman". Archived from the original on February 3, 2009. Retrieved August 3, 2008.
Tannenbaum, Rob/Marks, Craig (2012). I Want My MTV: The Uncensored Story of the Music Video Revolution. Plume. ISBN 0-452-29856-3.
Serge Denisoff, R. (January 1, 1988). Inside MTV – Google Books. ISBN 978-0-88738-864-4. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
"Remember Prince by watching some of his best performances, music videos"
"NIAF.org" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on May 31, 2012. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
^ Erlewine, Stephen Thomas (1999). "Culture Club – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
"Meet the Family: Kelly". The Osbournes. MTV.com. Archived from the original on February 25, 2021. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
Frankel, Daniel (September 15, 2008). "MTV to retire 'TRL'". Variety. Archived from the original on June 4, 2009. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
The channel also rotated the music videos of "Weird Al" Yankovic, who made a career out of parodying other artists' videos.[52] It also aired several of Yankovic's specials in the 1980s and 1990s, under the title Al TV.
^ "Aerosmith, N'Sync add spice to MTV-driven halftime show". Sports Illustrated. Associated Press. January 28, 2001. Archived from the original on February 26, 2008. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
"As Cable TV Fades, Fearing 'the End of Comedy Central'"
"What to Know About MTV's 'TRL' Revival". The Hollywood Reporter. October 2, 2017. Retrieved March 29, 2019.
"There's No Music Television in MTV's New Logo". Flavorwire. February 8, 2010.
^ Moss, Linda; Umstead, R. Thomas (April 10, 2008). "PTC Puts a Bad 'Rap' On BET, MTV". Multichannel news. Retrieved August 26, 2008.
Throughout its history, MTV has covered global benefit concert series live. For most of July 13, 1985, MTV showed the Live Aid concerts, held in London and Philadelphia and organized by Bob Geldof and Midge Ure to raise funds for famine relief in Ethiopia. While the ABC network showed only selected highlights during primetime, MTV broadcast 16 hours of coverage.[59]
^ a b Pittman, Robert (July 28, 1991). "Cover Story – The Man Behind the Monster". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Atlas, Jacob. "Charlatan Productions: Mind Blowing Films for Pop Groups". The Beat (February 10, 1968): 12.
Kaufman, Gil (July 21, 2008). "Court Drops FCC Fine For Janet Jackson's Super Bowl Wardrobe Malfunction". MTV. Archived from the original on July 22, 2012. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Erlewine, Stephen Thomas; Prato, Greg (2002). "Ratt – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
"Music censorship in America". Archived from the original on August 8, 2009.
Izadi, Elahe. "This is how David Bowie confronted MTV when it was still ignoring black artists". The Washington Post. Retrieved December 8, 2016.
"Tumblr Launches "Tumblr TV," A GIF Search Engine With A Full-Screen Viewing Mode | TechCrunch"
MAYHEW, MALCOLM. "The 10 most memorable VJs." Fort Worth Star-Telegram (TX), FINAL ed., sec. LIFE & ARTS, 1 Aug. 2001, p. 1. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/0EDA3934EE580E6B. Accessed 17 Mar. 2021.
"MTV today announced the launch of the new hybrid channel, "MTV Overdrive""
^ Collins, Scott; Maglio, Tony (December 29, 2016). "21 Least-Watched Cable Channels, From MTV Classic to Sprout". TheWrap. Retrieved January 3, 2017.
MTVAdriaAustriaBelgiumCzechia and SlovakiaChinaDenmarkEestiFinlandGreeceHungaryLithuania and LatviaMiddle EastNordicNorwayPakistanRomaniaRussia, CIS and GeorgiaSwedenTurkeyUkraineSoutheast AsiaIndonesiaPhilippinesOriginalMTV PinoyMTVphThailand
"First Monday: New in business TV, movies, books, magazines". USA Today. May 2, 2010. Retrieved May 13, 2010.
"Lady Gaga's 'Yoü And I' Video To Premiere Thursday on MTV"
"Memory Lane...Inside MTV Studios During Their First Month On Air"
Vidani, Peter (May 5, 1980). "MTV Logo @ Fred Seibert dot com". Fredseibert.com. Archived from the original on April 26, 2012. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC for America: A Tribute to Heroes (2002)
In 2016, MTV continued its pro-democracy campaign with Elect This, an issue-oriented look at the 2016 election targeting Millennials. Original content under the "Elect This" umbrella includes "Infographica," short animations summarizing MTV News polls; "Robo-Roundtable," a digital series hosted by animatronic robots; "The Racket," a multi-weekly digital series; and "The Stakes," a weekly political podcast.[219]
^ "Justin Timberlake to MTV: "Play more damn videos!"". People Magazine. September 9, 2007. Retrieved June 24, 2012.
Archived at Ghostarchive and the "Rick James & Prince Part 2 tour bus tales". YouTube. Archived from the original on February 29, 2020. Retrieved June 1, 2020.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link): "Rick James & Prince Part 2 tour bus tales". YouTube. Retrieved June 1, 2020.
A newly created division of the company, MTV New Media, announced in 2008 that it would produce its own original web series, in an attempt to create a bridge between old and new media.[229] The programming is available to viewers via personal computers, cell phones, iPods, and other digital devices.[230]
4Influence and controversies											Toggle Influence and controversies subsection																					4.1Breaking the "color barrier"																											4.2Subsequent concepts																											4.3Censorship																											4.4Trademark suit																											4.5Andrew Dice Clay																											4.6Beavis and Butt-head																											4.7Dude, This Sucks																											4.8Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime show																								4.8.1Nipplegate																														4.9Moral criticism																											4.10Jersey Shore																											4.11Resolutions for White Guys
"MTV Sorry for Poop-Flinging". ABC News. April 6, 2001. Retrieved September 25, 2011.
^ "Pixel Party: The Studio of Jen Epstein". Popkern.tv. Archived from the original on February 21, 2015. Retrieved May 19, 2014.
In 1967, a Los Angeles company called Charlatan Productions began producing promotional films for rock groups, with a unique approach that involved interpreting individual songs by crafting original scripts and artistic scenarios to match.[8]Charlatan was founded by filmmakers Peter Gardiner and Allen Daviau, both of whom were special effects producers that year for the film, The Trip. Tom Rounds, former program director for San Francisco's top 40 radio station KFRC, was brought on board later in 1967 as Charlatan president.[9] Under Rounds’ leadership, and on contract to record companies, Charlatan produced the short, song-length promo films and then distributed them on videotape to TV stations around the country.[10] By mid-1968, Charlatan had already completed 40 films for 15 record companies, for artists such as Jimi Hendrix, The Animals, Steppenwolf, Aretha Franklin, Richie Havens, The Who, The Rascals, Paul Revere & the Raiders, Connie Francis, The Cowsills, and Ricky Nelson.[11]
^ Serge Denisoff, R (January 1, 1988). Inside MTV, p. 97. Transaction Publishers. ISBN 978-0-88738-864-4.
Vargas, Jose Antonio, "Vote or Die? Well, They Did Vote." Washingtonpost.com, November 9, 2004. Retrieved on 2006-04-14.
^ Caramanica, Jon (October 26, 2011). "Look Who's Trashing 'Jersey Shore' Now". The New York Times. Retrieved May 8, 2012.
"ItalianAware.com". ItalianAware.com. Archived from the original on January 31, 2019. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
In the 1980s, parent media watchdog groups such as the Parents Music Resource Center (PMRC) criticized MTV over certain music videos that were claimed to have explicit imagery of satanism. As a result, MTV developed a strict policy on refusal to air videos that may depict Satanism or anti-religious themes.[175] This policy led MTV to ban music videos such as "Jesus Christ Pose" by Soundgarden in 1991[176] and "Megalomaniac" by Incubus in 2004;[177] however, the controversial band Marilyn Manson was among the most popular rock bands on MTV during the late 1990s and early 2000s.
^ Sherman, Tom, "The Real Story of the Youth Vote in the 2004 Election. Archived May 11, 2011, at the Wayback Machine" Underscorebleach.net, November 4, 2004. Retrieved on 2006-04-14.
After Viacom's purchase of CBS, MTV was selected to produce the Super Bowl XXXV halftime show in 2001, airing on CBS and featuring Britney Spears, NSYNC, and Aerosmith.[185] Due to its success, MTV was invited back to produce another halftime show in 2004; this sparked a nationwide debate and controversy that drastically changed Super Bowl halftime shows, MTV's programming, and radio censorship.
"Life As We Know It: Natural Disasters". TV.com. Archived from the original on February 25, 2021. Retrieved August 3, 2007.
"Study: MTV delivers a diet of sleaze". USA Today. Associated Press. February 2, 2005. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
^ Chasmar, Jessica. "MTV News offers '2017 resolutions for white guys': 'Blue Lives Matter isn't a thing'". The Washington Times. Archived from the original on February 25, 2021. Retrieved December 30, 2016.
Marikar, Sheila (September 7, 2011). "Andrew Dice Clay: Lady Gaga's Jo Calderone Is Me". ABC News. Retrieved December 30, 2011.
^ "Elect What? "Elect This."". MTV Press. Viacom Media Networks. Archived from the original on September 21, 2016. Retrieved August 22, 2016.
According to The Austin Chronicle, Jackson's video for the song "Billie Jean" was "the video that broke the color barrier, even though the channel itself was responsible for erecting that barrier in the first place."[168] But change was not immediate. "Billie Jean" was not added to MTV's "medium rotation" playlist (two to three airings per day) until it reached No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. In the final week of March, it was in "heavy rotation", one week before the MTV debut of Jackson's "Beat It" video. Prince's "Little Red Corvette" joined both videos in heavy rotation at the end of April. At the beginning of June, "Electric Avenue" by Eddy Grant joined "Billie Jean", which was still in heavy rotation until mid-June. At the end of August, "She Works Hard for the Money" by Donna Summer was in heavy rotation on the channel. Herbie Hancock's "Rockit" and Lionel Richie's "All Night Long" were placed in heavy rotation at the end of October and the beginning of November respectively. In the final week of November, Donna Summer's "Unconditional Love" was in heavy rotation. When Jackson's elaborate video for "Thriller" was released late that year, raising the bar for what a video could be, the network's support for it was total; subsequently, more pop and R&B videos were played on MTV.[169]
Cichon, Steve. "Buffalo in the '70s: The home of Nickelodeon (and almost MTV)". Buffalo News. Retrieved November 15, 2022.
Within two months, record stores were selling music local radio stations were not playing, such as Men at Work, Bow Wow Wow and the Human League.[37] MTV also sparked the Second British Invasion, featuring existing videos by Britsh acts who had used the format for several years (for example, on BBC's Top of the Pops).[38][39]
^ Crupi, Anthony (April 10, 2008). "PTC Blasts MTV, BET". Mediaweek. Archived from the original on April 22, 2008. Retrieved August 26, 2008.
"MTV Mines the Past for Its Future: 'Total Request Live'"
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"MTV drops 'Music Television' from the network logo". Los Angeles Times. February 8, 2010. Retrieved June 21, 2012.
Hay, Carla (February 17, 2001), "Proper role of music TV debated in US", Billboard, p. 68
Simon Reynolds, Rip It Up and Start Again Postpunk 1978–1984, pp. 340, 342–3.
Hau, Louis (February 15, 2007). "R.I.P. For MTV's TRL?". Forbes.
"Show over for MTV's The Osbournes". BBC News. November 19, 2004. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
"10 on Top". MTV.com. Archived from the original on February 1, 2021. Retrieved August 14, 2012.
Jackson, Vincent (December 4, 2009). "Italian groups target MTV". PressOfAtlanticCity.com. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
"Apologetic Jackson says 'costume reveal' went awry". CNN. Associated Press. February 2, 2004. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
^ "MTV schedule for the week of October 20, 2002". MTV. Archived from the original on October 22, 2002.
Weber, Bruce. "Charlatan Inks MGM to 26 Artist-Promoting TV Films". Billboard. No. June 8, 1968.
"What the Hell Is MTV's New Rebrand About? | Motherboard"
Collins, Scott; Maglio, Tony (December 29, 2016). "21 Least-Watched Cable Channels, From MTV Classic to Sprout". TheWrap. Retrieved January 3, 2017.
"Buffalo in the '70s: The home of Nickelodeon (and almost MTV)"
Journal wire services, From Beacon. "QUINN RETURNS TO MTV TO HOST `DEJA VIDEO'." Akron Beacon Journal (OH), 1 STAR ed., sec. ENTERTAIN, February 14, 1989, p. B4. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/0EB629B8D011ABB0. Accessed February 9, 2020.
"Italian-Americans slam 'Jersey Shore'". UPI.com. December 4, 2009. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
In celebrating the 40th anniversary of the network's launch in 2021, current MTV Entertainment Group president Chris McCarthy acknowledged that "(o)ne of the bigger mistakes in the early years was not playing enough diverse music...but the nice thing that I’ve always learned at MTV is we have no problem owning our mistakes, quickly correcting them and trying to do the right thing and always follow where the audience is going."[165]
Prior to the series debut, Unico National formally requested that MTV cancel the show.[198] In a formal letter, the company called the show a "direct, deliberate and disgraceful attack on Italian Americans."[199] Unico National President Andre DiMino said, "MTV has festooned the 'bordello-like' house set with Italian flags and red, white and green maps of New Jersey while every other cutaway shot is of Italian signs and symbols. They are blatantly as well as subliminally bashing Italian Americans with every technique possible."[200] Around this time, other Italian organizations joined the fight, including the NIAF and the Order Sons of Italy in America.[201][202][203]
Century, Douglas (November 21, 1999). "The Extra 'V' in Very V.I.P." The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved March 29, 2019.
Koblin, John (July 30, 2017). "MTV Mines the Past for Its Future: 'Total Request Live'". The New York Times. Archived from the original on July 30, 2017. Retrieved July 31, 2017.
^ Gonzalez, John (September 15, 2020). "How Did MTV Become the 'Ridiculousness' Network?". The Ringer. Retrieved July 25, 2022.
"MTV's New Year's 'Resolutions for White Guys' Slammed as 'Racist,' 'Disgusting'"
^ Grillo, Lauren. "MTV". Power of 12. Archived from the original on November 4, 2013. Retrieved August 14, 2012.
A&E's The Biography Project for Schools / The Teen Files / VH1 Save the Music Foundation (2000)
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.11964–1977: Previous concepts																											1.21977–1981: Pre-history																											1.31981–1991																								1.3.1Launch																											1.3.2Original VJs and format																											1.3.3Video Music Awards																											1.3.4Special, annual events																											1.3.5Live concert broadcasts																											1.3.6Formatted music series																								1.3.6.1Return of the Rock																											1.3.6.2Total Request Live																											1.3.6.3Milestones and specials																																	1.41995–2010: Shift from music																											1.52010–present: Retirement from music videos
^ Hay, Carla (February 17, 2001), "Proper role of music TV debated in US", Billboard, p. 68
^ Beets, Greg (August 3, 2001). "Blow Up Your Video". The Austin Chronicle. Retrieved January 30, 2008.
Robert Sam Anson (June 4, 2008). "Birth of an MTV Nation". Vanity Fair.
"FoxNews.com". FoxNews.com. April 7, 2010. Archived from the original on February 1, 2011. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
"Censorship & Scandals: Beavis & Butt-head". Archived from the original on November 19, 2012.
In 2005 and 2006, MTV launched a list of channels for Asian Americans. The first channel was MTV Desi, launched in July 2005, dedicated towards Indian Americans. Next was MTV Chi, in December 2005, which catered to Chinese Americans. The third was MTV K, launched in June 2006 and targeted toward Korean Americans. Each of these channels featured music videos and shows from MTV's international affiliates as well as original US programming, promos, and packaging. All three of these channels ceased broadcasting on April 30, 2007.
^ "MTV – You're Hired". lasplash.com. April 24, 2010. Archived from the original on October 24, 2019. Retrieved May 4, 2010.
^ Poniewozik, James (April 7, 2002). "Ozzy Knows Best". Time. Archived from the original on August 24, 2013. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
Dishman, Lydia (June 25, 2016). "MTV International Turns The Lens On Its Audience With New "I Am My MTV" Rebrand". Retrieved April 24, 2016.
The VJs recorded intro and outro voiceovers before broadcast, along with music news, interviews, concert dates and promotions. These segments appeared to air live and debut on MTV 24/7, but they were pre-taped within a regular work week at MTV's studios.[44]
A pilot for a show called Dude, This Sucks was canceled after teens attending a taping at the Snow Summit Ski Resort in January 2001 were sprayed with liquidized fecal matter by a group known as "The Shower Rangers". The teens later sued,[182] with MTV later apologizing and ordering the segment's removal.[183][184]
^ a b Vidani, Peter. ""I Want My MTV!" Fred Seibert dot com". Fredseibert.com. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
"Live 8 Concerts Will Air on MTV, VH1". MTV News. June 23, 2005. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Litwak, Mark (1986). Reel Power: The Struggle for Influence and Success in the New Hollywood. New York: William Morrow & Co. p. 245. ISBN 0-688-04889-7.
Michael Powell, former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, ordered an investigation the day after broadcast.[186] In the weeks following the halftime show, MTV censored much of its programming. Several music videos, including "This Love" and "I Miss You", were edited for sexual content.[177] In September 2004, the FCC ruled that the halftime show was indecent and fined CBS $550,000.[187] The FCC upheld it in 2006,[188] but federal judges reversed the fine in 2008.[189]
"The Museum Broadcast Communications – Bob Pittman". Archived from the original on February 3, 2009. Retrieved August 3, 2008.
^ a b "Michael Jackson, "Billie Jean". blender.com. Archived from the original on March 12, 2007. Retrieved April 11, 2007.
On Saturday, August 1, 1981, at 12:01 a.m. Eastern Time,[21][22] MTV was launched with the words "Ladies and gentlemen, rock and roll," spoken by John Lack and played over footage of the first Space Shuttle launch countdown of Columbia (which took place earlier that year) and the launch of Apollo 11. The words were followed by the original MTV theme song, a vivid rock tune composed by Jonathan Elias and John Petersen, playing over the U.S. flag changed to show MTV's logo changing into different textures and designs. MTV producers Alan Goodman and Fred Seibert used this public domain footage as a concept;[23] Seibert said that they had originally planned to use Neil Armstrong's "One small step" quote, but lawyers said that Armstrong owned his name and likeness and that he had refused, so the quote was replaced with a beeping sound.[24] A shortened version of the shuttle launch ID ran at the top of every hour in different forms, from MTV's first day until it was pulled in early 1986 in the wake of the Challenger disaster.[25]
It Gets Better Project (co-founders Dan Savage and Terry Miller) (2012)
"MTV Launches 'Classic' Channel Dedicated to 1990s". Rolling Stone. July 28, 2016. Archived from the original on May 10, 2018. Retrieved July 29, 2016.
^ "MTV.com – On-Air – MTV Week at a Glance". MTV. Archived from the original on May 16, 2007.
^ Marks, Craig & Tannebaum, Rob, I Want My MTV, Penguin Books, 2011, pg. 166
"Court Drops FCC Fine For Janet Jackson's Super Bowl Wardrobe Malfunction"
3Logo and branding											Toggle Logo and branding subsection																					3.1"I Want My MTV!"
Buildings and facilitiesCBS Broadcast CenterCBS BuildingEd Sullivan TheaterOne Astor PlazaRadford Studio Center
^ Billboard – Google Books. May 25, 1974. Retrieved May 19, 2014.
^ Gundersen, Edna (August 25, 2005). "Jackson ends black music prejudice on MTV". USA Today. Retrieved May 13, 2010.
"MTV Act". Act.mtv.com. August 10, 2012. Retrieved August 14, 2012.
^ "Study: MTV delivers a diet of sleaze". USA Today. Associated Press. February 2, 2005. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
"Cable Network Coverage Area Household Universe Estimates: January 2016". Archived from the original on December 2, 2017. Retrieved August 21, 2017.
"After 30 Years, MTV Changing its Logo!". Om Malik. February 6, 2010. Archived from the original on February 9, 2010.
"Richard Lester: A hard day's life". Salon.com. June 26, 1999. Archived from the original on November 26, 2012. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ "TV Notebook." Providence Journal (RI), ALL ed., sec. TV, June 14, 1987, pp. T-02. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/15252B20F54B8A18. Accessed April 6, 2020.
"MTV Networks' MHD: Music High-Definition Channel Kicks Into High Gear With New Programming and a New Name – Palladia"
Erlewine, Stephen Thomas (2000). "Eurythmics – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
"Charlatan Forms C.P. Eye To Distribute Videotapes". Billboard. No. February 24, 1968.
^ "Sirius Satellite Radio: Big '80s". Archived from the original on February 9, 2008. Retrieved June 27, 2020.
^ Lynch, Jason (October 24, 2016). "Chris McCarthy, President of VH1 and Logo, Will Now Also Head Up MTV". Adweek. Retrieved December 22, 2021.
A few markets also launched music-only channels including Las Vegas' KRLR-TV (now KSNV), which debuted in the summer of 1984 and branded as "Vusic 21". The first video played on that channel was "Video Killed the Radio Star", following in the footsteps of MTV.[citation needed]
Donaldson-James, Susan (January 5, 2008). "MTV's Second Shot at Bisexuality". ABC News. Archived from the original on February 13, 2019. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
MTV Networks also operates MTV Live, a high-definition channel that features original HD music programming and HD versions of music related programs from MTV, VH1 and CMT. The channel was launched in January 2006 as MHD (Music: High Definition). The channel was officially rebranded as MTV Live on February 1, 2016.[220]
"Director Hustles New Web Series". NewTeeVee. August 27, 2008. Archived from the original on August 18, 2010. Retrieved December 3, 2008.
1.3.6Formatted music series																								1.3.6.1Return of the Rock																											1.3.6.2Total Request Live																											1.3.6.3Milestones and specials
^ "FCC sticks by Janet Jackson Super Bowl fine". MSNBC. Associated Press. February 22, 2006.
MTV would also venture into adult animation, with shows like Celebrity Deathmatch, Undergrads, Clone High, and Daria each becoming cult classics. Simultaneously, MTV spawned the paranormal reality tv genre with the broadcast of MTV's Fear in 2000.
Lewis, Michael (1996). "The Herd of Independent Minds". New Republic. Vol. 214, no. 23. pp. 20–26.
^ "First Monday: New in business TV, movies, books, magazines". USA Today. May 2, 2010. Retrieved May 13, 2010.
Sherman, Tom, "The Real Story of the Youth Vote in the 2004 Election. Archived May 11, 2011, at the Wayback Machine" Underscorebleach.net, November 4, 2004. Retrieved on 2006-04-14.
^ Maher, John. "From the Archives: Qube Comes to Columbus". Columbus Monthly. Retrieved February 4, 2023.
^ Hilburn, Robert (September 5, 1986). "MTV CREATOR TACKLES NEW GOALS". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved February 4, 2023.
Warner, Kara (May 15, 2012). "Usher Brings New Song 'Twisted' To MTV Wednesday". MTV News. Retrieved June 21, 2012.
^ White, Peter (July 1, 2021). "Chris McCarthy, Brian Robbins & George Cheeks Promoted As ViacomCBS Moves International Units Under Purview Of U.S. Execs". Deadline Hollywood. Retrieved November 18, 2021.
^ Sisario, Ben (November 17, 2008). "Totally Over: Last Squeals for 'TRL'". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on December 9, 2008. Retrieved April 2, 2019.
^ Kreps, Daniel (August 11, 2009). "Report: MTV To Vacate Times Square Studio". Rolling Stone. Retrieved March 29, 2019.
Vidani, Peter. "Dale Pon: My Mentor Fred Seibert dot com". Fredseibert.com. Archived from the original on February 24, 2021. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
Shortly after its launch, the Disney Channel aired a program called DTV, a play on the MTV acronym. The program used music cuts, both from past and upcoming artists. Instead of music videos, the program used clips of various vintage Disney cartoons and animated films (from Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs to The Fox and the Hound) to go with the songs. The program aired in multiple formats, sometimes between shows, sometimes as its own program, and other times as one-off specials. The specials tended to air both on the Disney Channel and NBC. The program aired at several times between 1984 and 1999. In 2009, Disney Channel revived the DTV concept with a new series of short-form segments called Re-Micks.
In recent years, other politically diverse programs on MTV have included True Life, which documents people's lives and problems, and MTV News specials, which center on very current events in both the music industry and the world. One special show covered the 2004 US presidential election, airing programs focused on the issues and opinions of young people, including a program where viewers could ask questions of Senator John Kerry.[211] MTV worked with P. Diddy's "Citizen Change" campaign, designed to encourage young people to vote.[212]
1.31981–1991																								1.3.1Launch																											1.3.2Original VJs and format																											1.3.3Video Music Awards																											1.3.4Special, annual events																											1.3.5Live concert broadcasts																											1.3.6Formatted music series																								1.3.6.1Return of the Rock																											1.3.6.2Total Request Live																											1.3.6.3Milestones and specials
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the "Mary + Jane Season 1 Episode 4 Review & After Show w/ Scout Durwood". AfterBuzz TV. September 28, 2016. Archived from the original on February 2, 2017. Retrieved September 29, 2016 – via YouTube.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link): "Mary + Jane Season 1 Episode 4 Review & After Show w/ Scout Durwood". AfterBuzz TV. September 28, 2016. Retrieved September 29, 2016 – via YouTube.
In 1977, Warner Cable, a division of Warner Communications (now as "WBD") and the precursor of Warner-Amex Satellite Entertainment, launched the first two-way interactive cable TV system, QUBE, in Columbus, Ohio. It offered many interactive programs – one of which was "Sight on Sound", a show featuring concert footage and music-oriented programs where viewers could vote for their favorite songs and artists.[14][15][16]
In 2012, MTV launched MTV Act and Power of 12, its current social activism campaigns. MTV Act focuses on a wide array of social issues,[217] while Power of 12 was a replacement for MTV's Choose or Lose and focused on the 2012 US presidential election.[218]
MTV's original format was created by media executive Robert W. Pittman, later president and CEO of MTV Networks.[17] He tested the format by producing and hosting a 15-minute show, Album Tracks, on New York City's WNBC-TV in the late 1970s.[18]
^ Banks, Jack (April 1996). Monopoly Television: MTV's Quest to Control the Music, pp. 48–50. Westview Press. ISBN 978-0-8133-1821-9.[permanent dead link]
Stelter, Brian (March 29, 2009). "MTV to Put a Bit More Music Back, in the A.M.". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 1, 2009. Retrieved March 29, 2009.
"Sirius Satellite Radio: Big '80s". Archived from the original on February 9, 2008. Retrieved June 27, 2020.
"That Time Billy Squier Made An MTV Singalong A Hit Christmas Song | 100.7 WZLX"
^ a b WESTBROOK, BRUCE. "MTV drops Quinn while searching for fresh faces." Houston Chronicle, NO STAR ed., sec. WEEKEND PREVIEW, January 8, 1987, p. 1. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/0ED7ACC863D5A5A4. Accessed February 9, 2020.
^ Web Staff (April 21, 2016). "Remember Prince by watching some of his best performances, music videos". FOX31 Denver. Retrieved April 21, 2016.
MTV responded by issuing a press release which stated in part, "The Italian American cast takes pride in their ethnicity. We understand that this show is not intended for every audience and depicts just one aspect of youth culture."[195] Following the calls for the show's removal, several sponsors requested that their ads not be aired during the show. These sponsors included Dell, Domino's Pizza, and American Family Insurance.[204] Despite the loss of certain advertisers, MTV did not cancel the show. Moreover, the show saw its audience increase from its premiere in 2009, and continued to place as MTV's top-rated programs during Jersey Shore's six-season run, ending in 2012.
^ "MTV lands acts for new music week". The Boston Globe. October 26, 1999. Retrieved June 22, 2012.
"Katy Perry Brings 'Wide Awake' Video To MTV!". MTV. June 13, 2012. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ "The Fall Of 'TRL' And The Rise of Internet Video". NPR. November 12, 2008. Retrieved March 29, 2009.
"Michael Jackson, "Billie Jean". blender.com. Archived from the original on March 12, 2007. Retrieved April 11, 2007.
^ "Italian-Americans slam 'Jersey Shore'". UPI.com. December 4, 2009. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
Rea, Steven. "MTV ANNOUNCERS LOOK TO HOLLYWOOD." Wichita Eagle, The (KS), CITY EDITION ed., sec. LIFESTYLE, June 4, 1987, p. 15D. NewsBank: Access World News, https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&docref=news/0EADB31150AD3A46. Accessed April 6, 2020.
"Why it took MTV so long to play black music videos". Jet. 2006. Archived from the original on August 2, 2013.
Serge Denisoff, R (January 1, 1988). Inside MTV, p. 43. Transaction Publishers. ISBN 978-0-88738-864-4.
^ a b "After 30 Years, MTV Changing its Logo!". Om Malik. February 6, 2010. Archived from the original on February 9, 2010.
"Tom Rounds Quits KFRC". Rolling Stone. No. November 9, 1967. p. 1.
^ Langhorne, Cyrus (March 8, 2012). "MTV Announces New Late Night Rap Show, Recruits Charlamagne Tha God". Sohh.Com. Archived from the original on May 11, 2012. Retrieved May 23, 2012.
"MTV marks 40th anniversary with a new 'Moon Person' design". Associated Press. Retrieved August 2, 2021.
The quote from Walter Yetnikoff reads, "I'm pulling everything we have off the air ... I'm not going to give you any more videos. And I'm going to go public and fucking tell them about the fact you don't want to play music by a black guy."
Zahed, Ramin (December 20, 2000). "MTV's "Direct Effect"". Variety. Retrieved April 2, 2019.
^ Pearson, Jordan (June 26, 2015). "How Tumblr and MTV Killed the Neon Anti-Corporate Aesthetic of Vaporwave". Motherboard. Retrieved September 20, 2016 – via Vice Media.
^ Kaufman, Gil (July 21, 2008). "Court Drops FCC Fine For Janet Jackson's Super Bowl Wardrobe Malfunction". MTV. Archived from the original on July 22, 2012. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
^ Crupi, Anthony (February 27, 2017). "Small Change: Why Niche Cable Nets Are on Their Last Legs | Media – AdAge". Advertising Age. Retrieved February 27, 2017.
Pearson, Jordan (June 26, 2015). "How Tumblr and MTV Killed the Neon Anti-Corporate Aesthetic of Vaporwave". Motherboard. Retrieved September 20, 2016 – via Vice Media.
^ "Florence and the Machine 'Unplugged' To Premiere Sunday on MTV". MTV News. April 2, 2012. Retrieved February 15, 2022.
"Jersey Shore finale breaks ratings for MTV". Los Angeles Times. January 22, 2010. Retrieved May 13, 2010.
"MTV International Turns The Lens On Its Audience With New "I Am My MTV" Rebrand"
In 1984, the channel produced its first MTV Video Music Awards show, or VMAs. The first award show, in 1984, was punctuated by a live performance by Madonna of "Like A Virgin". The statuettes that are handed out at the Video Music Awards are of the MTV moonman, the channel's original image from its first broadcast in 1981. Presently, the Video Music Awards are MTV's most watched annual event.[54]
"MTV's New Year's 'Resolutions for White Guys' Slammed as 'Racist,' 'Disgusting'". Archived from the original on October 11, 2018. Retrieved December 30, 2016.
^ Littleton, Cynthia (November 11, 2020). "Can These Execs Save ViacomCBS' Storied Cable Brands?". Variety. Retrieved November 18, 2021.
"MTV to Put a Bit More Music Back, in the A.M."
"CBS hit with $550K Super Bowl fine". CNN/Money. September 22, 2004. Retrieved May 24, 2008.
McGrath, Tom (1996). MTV: The Making of a Revolution. Running Pr. ISBN 1-56138-703-7.
"MTV's Video Music Award Sponsors Push Cross-Platform Integrations". Archived from the original on August 1, 2013. Retrieved June 22, 2012.
"Florence and the Machine 'Unplugged' To Premiere Sunday on MTV"
Since early 2020, MTV has devoted most of its programming schedule to select programs, primarily Ridiculousness, which in June 2020 aired "for 113 hours out of the network’s entire 168-hour lineup".[3][4][5]
"MTV Smut Peddlers: Targeting Kids with Sex, Drugs, and Alcohol"
^ Serge Denisoff, R (January 1, 1988). Inside MTV, p. 43. Transaction Publishers. ISBN 978-0-88738-864-4.
^ "Carson Daly Looks Back as TRL Counts Down its Final Days". TVGuide.com. November 14, 2008. Retrieved February 24, 2020.
From 1998 to 2003, MTV also aired several other music video programs from its studios. These programs included Say What? Karaoke, a game show hosted by Dave Holmes.[78] In the early 2000s MTV aired VJ for a Day, hosted by Ray Munns.[79] MTV also aired Hot Zone, hosted by Ananda Lewis, which featured pop music videos during the midday time period.[80] Other programs at the time included Sucker Free,[81] and BeatSuite.[82]
Timberlake and Jackson's controversial event gave way to a "wave of self-censorship on American television unrivaled since the McCarthy era".[190] After the sudden event, names surfaced such as nipplegate, Janet moment, and boobgate, and this spread politically, furthering the discussion into the 2004 presidential election surrounding "moral values" and "media decency".[190]
Legally Blonde: The Musical – The Search for Elle Woods
"What the Hell Is MTV's New Rebrand About? | Motherboard". Motherboard.vice.com. June 25, 2015. Retrieved December 8, 2016.
^ Jackson, Vincent (December 4, 2009). "Italian groups target MTV". PressOfAtlanticCity.com. Retrieved August 7, 2010.
Goldberg, Jonah. "Jonah Goldberg – Very Different Visions". Retrieved December 30, 2016.
^ "What to Know About MTV's 'TRL' Revival". The Hollywood Reporter. October 2, 2017. Retrieved March 29, 2019.
Chris McCarthy was named president of MTV in 2016.[129] In 2021, McCarthy was named president and CEO of MTV Entertainment Group (which also oversees Comedy Central, Paramount Network, TV Land, CMT, and Smithsonian Channel).[130][131]
^ Aurthur, Michael Schneider, Kate; Schneider, Michael; Aurthur, Kate (July 21, 2020). "R.I.P. Cable TV: Why Hollywood Is Slowly Killing Its Biggest Moneymaker". Variety. Retrieved July 25, 2022.
^ Lane, Frederick S. (2006). The Decency Wars: The Campaign to Cleanse American Culture. Amherst, New York: Prometheus Books. ISBN 1-59102-427-7.
^ Erlewine, Stephen Thomas (2000). "Eurythmics – Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved February 19, 2008.
"MTV won't say how old it is (but it's 25): A list of Music Television's notable moments". CNN. April 30, 2005. Archived from the original on August 11, 2006. Retrieved August 1, 2006.
In 2005, the Parents Television Council (PTC) released a study titled "MTV Smut Peddlers", which sought to expose excessive sexual, profane, and violent content on the channel, based on MTV's spring break programming from 2004.[191] Jeanette Kedas, an MTV network executive, called the PTC report "unfair and inaccurate" and "underestimating young people's intellect and level of sophistication", while L. Brent Bozell III, then-president of the PTC, stated: "the incessant sleaze on MTV presents the most compelling case yet for consumer cable choice", referring to the practice of pay television companies to allow consumers to pay for channels à la carte.[192]
^ White, Emily (September 8, 2015). "Elle King Is Just Second Woman to Top Alternative Songs Chart in Two Decades". Billboard. Prometheus Global Media. Retrieved September 9, 2015.
"Twenty One Pilots Chart History – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved January 20, 2022.
"Alternative Airplay Chart". Billboard. January 23, 2021. Retrieved February 2, 2021.
Rutherford, Kevin (August 19, 2021). "Modest Mouse Adds Alternative Airplay No. 1 in Third Decade With 'We Are Between'". Billboard. Retrieved August 19, 2021.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"The charts" (fee required). The Sun Herald. August 25, 2005. Retrieved January 18, 2008.
"Twenty One Pilots are the first to achieve this chart feat in two years"
"Alternative Airplay". Billboard. January 18, 2020. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
^ "Alternative Airplay: September 24, 1994". Billboard. Retrieved February 19, 2023.
The first alternative chart, called Modern Rock Tracks, appeared in the September 10, 1988, edition of Billboard magazine.[4] The first number-one song of the chart was Siouxsie and the Banshees' "Peek-a-Boo", which topped the charts for two weeks.[5] In the chart's early years, the chart was closely associated with college rock, new wave, post-punk and electronic genres with a large presence of British, Irish and Australian artists, as only 24 of the chart's first 82 number-one hits were by American acts.[6] Bands including Depeche Mode, Pixies, The Cure, New Order and R.E.M. were amongst the most popular acts on Alternative radio in the late 1980s and early 1990s.[6] Many rock artists do not release commercial singles in the United States. Several popular songs which were not released as commercial singles did not qualify for the Hot 100 before December 1998, but performed very well on the Modern Rock Tracks chart.
^ Billboard. March 18, 2023 https://www.billboard.com/charts/alternative-airplay/2023-03-18/. Retrieved March 14, 2023. {{cite web}}: Missing or empty |title= (help)
Rutherford, Kevin (June 6, 2018). "Muse Returns to No. 1 on Alternative Songs Chart With 'Thought Contagion'". billboard.com. Billboard Music. Retrieved June 6, 2018.
"Lorde First Woman in 17 Years to Top Alternative with 'Royals'"
Rutherford, Kevin (June 28, 2022). "BoyWithUke Notches First No. 1 on a Billboard Songs Chart With 'Toxic'". Billboard. Retrieved September 16, 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Red Hot Chili Peppers – Chart History - Alternative Airplay". Billboard. Retrieved March 28, 2022.
"BoyWithUke Notches First No. 1 on a Billboard Songs Chart With 'Toxic'"
"Muse Returns to No. 1 on Alternative Songs Chart With 'Thought Contagion'"
"Alternative Airplay: April 22, 2006". Billboard. Retrieved February 19, 2023.
^ "Alternative Chart 25th Anniversary: Top 50 Artists, Most Top 10s, Most No. 1s & More". Billboard. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
^ "Red Hot Chili Peppers – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved November 22, 2022.
"Red Hot Chili Peppers – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved November 22, 2022.
^ "Alternative Airplay". Billboard. February 20, 2010. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
"Radio-Friendly Unit Shifters | Pitchfork". pitchfork.com. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
"Alternative Airplay". Billboard. July 21, 2012. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
2.2Acts who have reached number one in at least three decades																								2.2.1Four decades																											2.2.2Three decades
Fall Out Boy hold the record for the longest wait between their first entry and the first number one single on the chart, when "Love from the Other Side" reached the top in March 2023, 17 years and 9 months after they debuted on the chart with "Sugar, We're Goin Down" in June 2005.[72]
"Linkin Park Logs 12th Alternative Airplay Chart No. 1 With 'Lost'"
"Weezer Leads Alternative Airplay Chart in Third Decade With 'Hero'"
"Portugal. The Man's 'Feel It Still' Breaks Record for Most Weeks at No. 1 on Alternative Songs Chart"
"Pearl Jam – Chart history | Billboard". www.billboard.com. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
"Alternative Chart 25th Anniversary: Top 50 Artists, Most Top 10s, Most No. 1s & More"
Billie Eilish holds the records for most number ones on the chart for a soloist and most number ones for a female artist or band with female vocals, having topped the chart four times.[71]
"Nine Inch Nails Extend Alternative Songs Streak With 'Less Than'". Billboard. Retrieved August 8, 2017.
^ "Cage the Elephant Alternative Songs Chart History". Billboard. July 3, 2019. Retrieved July 3, 2019.
"Linkin Park Logs 12th Alternative Airplay Chart No. 1 With 'Lost'". Billboard. Retrieved March 18, 2023.
"Lorde First Woman in 17 Years to Top Alternative with 'Royals'". Billboard. August 16, 2013. Retrieved August 16, 2013.
Hits of the WorldBrazil SongsCroatia SongsHong Kong SongsIndia SongsMalaysia SongsPhilippines SongsRomania SongsSouth Korea SongsMexico Songs
"Green Day Lands 11th No. 1 on Alternative Songs With 'Still Breathing'"
"Alternative Chart 25th Anniversary: Top 100 Songs". Billboard. Retrieved August 8, 2017.
^ "Mary Ramsey replaced Merchant in 1993, though all of the band's Alternative Songs entries were in the Merchant era".[18]
^ "Alternative Airplay". Billboard. January 18, 2020. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
"Foo Fighters – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved February 17, 2022.
"Elle King Is Just Second Woman to Top Alternative Songs Chart in Two Decades"
Fifteen songs released on an independent record label have reached number one on this chart: "Come Out and Play" by The Offspring, "What It's Like" by Everlast, "Panic Switch" by Silversun Pickups, "1901" by Phoenix, "Lay Me Down" by The Dirty Heads featuring Rome Ramirez, "Do I Wanna Know?" by Arctic Monkeys, "Hollow Moon (Bad Wolf)" by Awolnation, "The Sound of Winter" by Bush, "First" by Cold War Kids,"Bored to Death" by Blink-182, "Take It All Back" by Judah & the Lion, "No Roots" by Alice Merton, "Sober Up" by AJR featuring Rivers Cuomo, "Trampoline" by Shaed and "Running up that Hill" by Meg Myers.
"Foo Fighters Top Act, Muse's 'Uprising' No. 1 Song in Alternative Songs Chart's 30th Anniversary Recaps". Billboard. Retrieved November 19, 2018.
^ "Nine Inch Nails Extend Alternative Songs Streak With 'Less Than'". Billboard. Retrieved August 8, 2017.
^ Rutherford, Kevin (August 18, 2020). "Weezer Leads Alternative Airplay Chart in Third Decade With 'Hero'". MSN Entertainment. Retrieved August 19, 2020.
Rutherford, Kevin (November 28, 2017). "Portugal. The Man's 'Feel It Still' Breaks Record for Most Weeks at No. 1 on Alternative Songs Chart". billboard.com. Billboard Music. Retrieved May 7, 2018.
Songs that have taken the longest time to reach number one
In the 2010s, the Alternative charts were led by softer indie pop and folk, and crossed over new acts to pop radio for the first time since the late 1990s, such as Foster the People, Imagine Dragons, Fun, and Gotye.[6] The chart also began to diverge from the Mainstream Rock chart, as only 10 of 40 songs were shared between the two in November 2012, compared to 23 of 40 in November 2002.[13] For the chart's 25th anniversary in 2013, Billboard published a list of the 100 biggest hits in the history of the Alternative chart. "Uprising" by Muse was listed at No. 1, having spent 17 weeks on the top of the chart and 53 weeks in total. "Savior" by Rise Against was listed at No. 2, peaking at #3 but staying on the chart for a record-breaking 65 weeks.[14]
List of K-pop on the Billboard chartsAlbumsSongsJapan Hot 100World Digital Song SalesYear-end
"Linkin Park – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved February 22, 2023.
"Nirvana – Chart history | Billboard". www.billboard.com. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
"Alternative Airplay". Billboard. March 19, 2016. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
"Fall Out Boy Breaks Alternative Airplay Record With First No. 1"
^ Rutherford, Kevin (February 23, 2023). "Depeche Mode Becomes Second Act With Entries in Every Decade of Alternative Airplay Chart". Billboard. Retrieved March 6, 2023.
Zellner, Xander (October 11, 2018). "Dolores O'Riordan, Alanis Morissette, Hayley Williams & More: The Top 30 Female Artists in the Alternative Songs Chart's History". Billboard. Archived from the original on April 5, 2020. Retrieved July 4, 2020.
Rutherford, Kevin (March 13, 2018). "Imagine Dragons' 'Evolve' Is First Album With 3 Alternative Songs No. 1s This Decade". billboard.com. Billboard Music. Retrieved March 15, 2018.
The chart is based solely on radio airplay ranked by a calculation of the total number of spins each song receives per week. As of 2012, approximately 80 alternative radio stations across the United States are electronically monitored 24 hours a day, seven days a week by Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems.[1] The chart had 30 positions when it was introduced in September 1988 and expanded to 40 positions on September 10, 1994.[2]
^ Rutherford, Kevin (May 20, 2019). "Billie Eilish Scores First Airplay Chart No. 1 as 'Bury a Friend' Tops Alternative Songs". Billboard. Retrieved July 31, 2019.
"Alternative Airplay". Billboard. February 20, 2010. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
^ "Alternative Airplay". Billboard. July 21, 2012. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
^ "Column, Chart Expand Coverage of Modern Rock". Billboard. Vol. 106, no. 37. September 10, 1994. p. 6.
Rutherford, Kevin (January 24, 2017). "Green Day Lands 11th No. 1 on Alternative Songs With 'Still Breathing'". Billboard. Retrieved January 28, 2017.
Songs that have taken the longest time to reach number one[edit]
^ Rutherford, Kevin (June 28, 2022). "BoyWithUke Notches First No. 1 on a Billboard Songs Chart With 'Toxic'". Billboard. Retrieved September 16, 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Hyden, Steven (October 1, 2013). "Indie Rock's Tuneful Death Rattle". Grantland. Retrieved August 8, 2017.
^ Macdonald, Patrick (December 23, 1994). "Music Notes". The Seattle Times. Retrieved June 13, 2013.
Hyden, Steven (October 1, 2013). "Indie Rock's Tuneful Death Rattle". Grantland. Retrieved August 8, 2017.
Trust, Gary (October 2, 2010). "Extended Stays". Billboard. 122 (39): 42. Retrieved March 11, 2016.
"The Top 30 Female Alternative Songs Artists ranking is based on weekly performance on the Alternative Songs chart from its September 10, 1988, inception through September 8, 2018".[18]
In the mid-2000s, the Alternative charts were ruled at the top by its most dominant members. From 2003 to 2008, the No. 1 song was by either Foo Fighters, Green Day, Incubus, Linkin Park or Red Hot Chili Peppers 49% of the time – 152 out of 313 weeks.[6] During this time, 1990s alternative groups such as Nine Inch Nails and Weezer enjoyed their biggest success, while emo (Jimmy Eat World), indie rock (Modest Mouse) and pop punk (Fall Out Boy) also were popular.[6] In 2007, "The Kill" by Thirty Seconds to Mars set a record for the longest-running hit in the history of the US alternative chart when it remained on the national chart for 52 weeks.[11] Rise Against's "Savior" later broke the record by spending 65 weeks, followed around the same time by "1901" from Phoenix at 57.[12] In 2009, Billboard renamed the chart to "Alternative Songs".[3]
^ Rutherford, Kevin (August 19, 2021). "Modest Mouse Adds Alternative Airplay No. 1 in Third Decade With 'We Are Between'". Billboard. Retrieved August 19, 2021.
2.2Acts who have reached number one in at least three decades
"Beck Scores Record-Breaking No. 1 on Alternative Songs with 'Up All Night'"
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"The charts" (fee required). The Sun Herald. August 25, 2005. Retrieved January 18, 2008.
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 17:11 (UTC).
^ Rutherford, Kevin (March 13, 2018). "Imagine Dragons' 'Evolve' Is First Album With 3 Alternative Songs No. 1s This Decade". billboard.com. Billboard Music. Retrieved March 15, 2018.
Billboard. March 18, 2023 https://www.billboard.com/charts/alternative-airplay/2023-03-18/. Retrieved March 14, 2023. {{cite web}}: Missing or empty |title= (help)
^ a b c d e f g Rutherford, Kevin (November 28, 2017). "Portugal. The Man's 'Feel It Still' Breaks Record for Most Weeks at No. 1 on Alternative Songs Chart". billboard.com. Billboard Music. Retrieved May 7, 2018.
^ "Alternative Airplay". Billboard. March 19, 2016. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
"Alternative Airplay". Billboard. May 2, 2009. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
^ "Foo Fighters – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved February 17, 2022.
Macdonald, Patrick (December 23, 1994). "Music Notes". The Seattle Times. Retrieved June 13, 2013.
Rutherford, Kevin (April 20, 2020). "The Killers Break Record for Longest Time Between Alternative Songs No. 1s". Billboard. Retrieved April 21, 2020.
^ "Nirvana – Chart history | Billboard". www.billboard.com. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
^ Rutherford, Kevin (February 17, 2023). "Weezer Scores Eighth Alternative Airplay No. 1 With 'Records'". Billboard. Retrieved February 24, 2023.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Billie Eilish Breaks Record for Most Alternative Airplay No. 1s Ever Among Soloists"
The chart was renamed to Alternative Songs beginning with the June 20, 2009, issue after Billboard fully absorbed Radio & Records, whose similar chart was called "Alternative" and to reflect the music industry's more common use of the term.[3] In June 2020, Billboard introduced the separate Hot Alternative Songs chart, which uses similar methodology as the Billboard Hot 100 by measuring the popularity of songs classified as alternative across all radio formats, streaming services, and sales within the United States. To avoid confusion, Alternative Songs was renamed Alternative Airplay.
^ a b c d e f g h "lovelytheband's 'Broken' Breaks Alternative Songs Longevity Record". Billboard. March 1, 2019. Retrieved March 1, 2019.
"Modest Mouse Adds Alternative Airplay No. 1 in Third Decade With 'We Are Between'"
"Cage the Elephant Alternative Songs Chart History". Billboard. July 3, 2019. Retrieved July 3, 2019.
^ a b Gary Trust (June 10, 2009). "Chart Beat: Pink, Black Eyed Peas, Shinedown". Billboard. Retrieved January 16, 2020.
"Mary Ramsey replaced Merchant in 1993, though all of the band's Alternative Songs entries were in the Merchant era".[18]
In the mid-1990s, alternative rock songs began to crossover to Pop radio, with acts such as Green Day, The Offspring and Alanis Morissette being played on Pop stations after establishing hits on the Alternative chart.[6] Dominant genres included pop punk and softer alternative rock, as grunge acts such as Soundgarden and Stone Temple Pilots did not reach No. 1, while Britpop, a form of alternative rock from the UK, was represented only by Oasis.[6] By the late 1990s, the Alternative Songs chart was ruled by relatively lighter alternative rock bands such as Third Eye Blind, Matchbox Twenty and Sugar Ray and a plethora of one-hit wonders.[6][10]
^ "Alternative Airplay: April 21, 2007". Billboard. Retrieved February 19, 2023.
^ Trust, Gary (October 2, 2010). "Extended Stays". Billboard. 122 (39): 42. Retrieved March 11, 2016.
"Chart History All Time Low". Billboard. Billboard. Retrieved October 4, 2021.
2.8Songs that have taken the longest time to reach number one
^ "Chart History All Time Low". Billboard. Billboard. Retrieved October 4, 2021.
^ "Alternative Airplay". Billboard. May 2, 2009. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
Acts who have reached number one in at least three decades
On October 11, 2018, Billboard released its Greatest of All Time Alternative Songs 30th-anniversary recap. The Foo Fighters continued its reign as the chart's No. 1 act over the list's first 30 years, after leading the 25th-anniversary recap. Muse's "Uprising" retained its standing as the all-time No. 1 song. Rise Against's " Savior" again ranked at No. 2, while Portugal. The Man's "Feel It Still" entered at No. 3, the highest debut on the 30th anniversary songs list, following its record 20-week reign in 2017.[15] Six bands charted at least once in the first four decades of the chart's existence – Nine Inch Nails, Depeche Mode, Jane's Addiction, Red Hot Chili Peppers, U2 and Beastie Boys.[16] As of 2023, only Depeche Mode and Red Hot Chili Peppers have extended that streak to five decades.[17] Although the Alternative Songs chart "tends to be heavily male-dominated", Billboard released a list of the top-performing women in the chart's archives as part of the 30th anniversary of the Alternative Songs chart, with Dolores O'Riordan of the Cranberries taking the lead spot.[18]The current number one song is "Love from the Other Side" by Fall Out Boy.[19]
^ "Green Day Breaks Alternative Songs No 1s Record". Billboard. April 14, 2020. Retrieved April 18, 2020.
"Imagine Dragons Chart History (Alternative Airplay)". Billboard. Retrieved November 15, 2022.
^ a b "Green Day - Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved April 14, 2020.
The songs with 16 or more weeks at number one.
Rutherford, Kevin (August 18, 2020). "Weezer Leads Alternative Airplay Chart in Third Decade With 'Hero'". MSN Entertainment. Retrieved August 19, 2020.
Rutherford, Kevin (February 24, 2023). "Fall Out Boy Breaks Alternative Airplay Record With First No. 1". Billboard. Retrieved February 25, 2023.
"Alternative Songs Chart the Week of May 11, 2019". Billboard. Retrieved May 7, 2019.
^ a b "Imagine Dragons Chart History (Alternative Airplay)". Billboard. Retrieved November 15, 2022.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k
^ a b c d Rutherford, Kevin (June 6, 2018). "Muse Returns to No. 1 on Alternative Songs Chart With 'Thought Contagion'". billboard.com. Billboard Music. Retrieved June 6, 2018.
^ "The Top 30 Female Alternative Songs Artists ranking is based on weekly performance on the Alternative Songs chart from its September 10, 1988, inception through September 8, 2018".[18]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k "Radio-Friendly Unit Shifters | Pitchfork". pitchfork.com. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
"Alternative Airplay: September 24, 1994". Billboard. Retrieved February 19, 2023.
"Red Hot Chili Peppers – Chart History - Alternative Airplay"
^ "Weezer – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
^ "Linkin Park Logs 12th Alternative Airplay Chart No. 1 With 'Lost'". Billboard. Retrieved March 18, 2023.
Roth, Kaj (February 2, 2007). "30 Seconds to Mars Breaks Modern Rock Record". Melodic. Retrieved April 23, 2013.
^ "Alternative Airplay". Billboard. February 1, 2020. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
^ Rutherford, Kevin (February 24, 2023). "Fall Out Boy Breaks Alternative Airplay Record With First No. 1". Billboard. Retrieved February 25, 2023.
The following songs have charted for more than 52 weeks.
Rutherford, Kevin (February 17, 2023). "Weezer Scores Eighth Alternative Airplay No. 1 With 'Records'". Billboard. Retrieved February 24, 2023.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ "Pearl Jam – Chart history | Billboard". www.billboard.com. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
^ "Lorde Links Longest Alternative Songs Reign By A Woman With 'Royals'". Billboard. September 16, 2013. Retrieved September 17, 2013.
^ Rutherford, Kevin (January 24, 2017). "Green Day Lands 11th No. 1 on Alternative Songs With 'Still Breathing'". Billboard. Retrieved January 28, 2017.
2Chart achievements											Toggle Chart achievements subsection																					2.1Artists with the most number-one songs																											2.2Acts who have reached number one in at least three decades																								2.2.1Four decades																											2.2.2Three decades																														2.3Artists with the most cumulative weeks at number one																											2.4Number-one debuts																											2.5Artists with most chart entries																											2.6Songs with most weeks on the chart																											2.7Songs with most weeks at number one																											2.8Songs that have taken the longest time to reach number one																											2.9Albums with at least three number ones																											2.10Top female performers (1988–2018)
"Depeche Mode Becomes Second Act With Entries in Every Decade of Alternative Airplay Chart"
"High Hopes Alternative Songs Chart History". billboard.com. Retrieved April 16, 2019.
Rutherford, Kevin (February 1, 2021). "Billie Eilish Breaks Record for Most Alternative Airplay No. 1s Ever Among Soloists". Billboard. Retrieved February 2, 2021.
^ Rutherford, Kevin (December 7, 2017). "Beck Scores Record-Breaking No. 1 on Alternative Songs with 'Up All Night'". Billboard. Retrieved December 8, 2017.
"Lorde Links Longest Alternative Songs Reign By A Woman With 'Royals'". Billboard. September 16, 2013. Retrieved September 17, 2013.
"Jangle All The Way: New Acts Soften Alternative Airwaves". Billboard. Retrieved August 8, 2017.
"Green Day - Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved April 14, 2020.
Lorde is the youngest solo artist to reach number one, achieving this feat at the age of 16 with "Royals".[70]
"Nine Inch Nails Extend Alternative Songs Streak With 'Less Than'"
"Twenty One Pilots are the first to achieve this chart feat in two years". Altpress. 2020.
"Column, Chart Expand Coverage of Modern Rock". Billboard. Vol. 106, no. 37. September 10, 1994. p. 6.
"Pearl Jam – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved February 13, 2020.
^ Rutherford, Kevin (February 1, 2021). "Billie Eilish Breaks Record for Most Alternative Airplay No. 1s Ever Among Soloists". Billboard. Retrieved February 2, 2021.
Acts who have reached number one in at least three decades[edit]
^ Roth, Kaj (February 2, 2007). "30 Seconds to Mars Breaks Modern Rock Record". Melodic. Retrieved April 23, 2013.
^ "Foo Fighters Top Act, Muse's 'Uprising' No. 1 Song in Alternative Songs Chart's 30th Anniversary Recaps". Billboard. Retrieved November 19, 2018.
"Imagine Dragons' 'Evolve' Is First Album With 3 Alternative Songs No. 1s This Decade"
Rutherford, Kevin (February 23, 2023). "Depeche Mode Becomes Second Act With Entries in Every Decade of Alternative Airplay Chart". Billboard. Retrieved March 6, 2023.
^ "Alternative Chart 25th Anniversary: Top 100 Songs". Billboard. Retrieved August 8, 2017.
White, Emily (September 8, 2015). "Elle King Is Just Second Woman to Top Alternative Songs Chart in Two Decades". Billboard. Prometheus Global Media. Retrieved September 9, 2015.
List of Billboard Hot 100 number-ones by origin of artistsAustralianBritishCanadianEuropean
^ "Lorde First Woman in 17 Years to Top Alternative with 'Royals'". Billboard. August 16, 2013. Retrieved August 16, 2013.
^ a b c Zellner, Xander (October 11, 2018). "Dolores O'Riordan, Alanis Morissette, Hayley Williams & More: The Top 30 Female Artists in the Alternative Songs Chart's History". Billboard. Archived from the original on April 5, 2020. Retrieved July 4, 2020.
^ "High Hopes Alternative Songs Chart History". billboard.com. Retrieved April 16, 2019.
The Killers have had the longest time between number-ones (13 years and 6 months), with "When You Were Young" (2006) and "Caution" (2020).[64]
"Dolores O'Riordan, Alanis Morissette, Hayley Williams & More: The Top 30 Female Artists in the Alternative Songs Chart's History"
"The Killers Break Record for Longest Time Between Alternative Songs No. 1s"
"Modern Rock Tracks". Billboard. Nielsen Business Media. 106 (27): 102. July 2, 1994. Retrieved June 13, 2013.
"Foo Fighters Top Act, Muse's 'Uprising' No. 1 Song in Alternative Songs Chart's 30th Anniversary Recaps"
^ "Alternative Airplay". Billboard. October 12, 2013. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
^ "Siouxsie & The Banshees". www.popradiotop20.com. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
^ "Twenty One Pilots Chart History – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved January 20, 2022.
^ "Pearl Jam – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved February 13, 2020.
"Alternative Airplay". Billboard. March 6, 2010. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
^ "Twenty One Pilots are the first to achieve this chart feat in two years". Altpress. 2020.
At the turn of the century, alternative radio embraced nu-metal/rap rock with bands including Korn, Limp Bizkit and most famously, Linkin Park. Chris Molanphy of Pitchfork stated that "possibly the most loathed period for music of the last half-century, the rap-rock years—when looked through the prism of the Modern Rock chart's evolution—are a logical endpoint to a decade when alt-culture steadily de-wussified itself."[6] Garage rock from the likes of The White Stripes and The Strokes also became hits in the early 2000s as a counter to the over-aggression of rap rock.[6]
"Alternative Airplay". Billboard. October 2, 2010. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
^ "Alternative Songs Chart the Week of May 11, 2019". Billboard. Retrieved May 7, 2019.
Rutherford, Kevin (December 7, 2017). "Beck Scores Record-Breaking No. 1 on Alternative Songs with 'Up All Night'". Billboard. Retrieved December 8, 2017.
^ "Alternative Airplay". Billboard. March 14, 2020. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
^ "Alternative Airplay Chart". Billboard. January 23, 2021. Retrieved February 2, 2021.
^ "Coldplay – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
In August 2013, Lorde became the first woman to top the chart since Tracy Bonham in 1996 when her song "Royals" reached number one in August 2013;[67] the next woman to top the chart was Elle King with her song "Ex's & Oh's" which hit the top spot in September 2015.[68] In September 2013, Lorde surpassed Alanis Morissette to become the woman with the longest-running single at number one when "Royals" spent its sixth week at number one.[69] Since then, four other women have also topped the chart, Alice Merton (2018), Lana Del Rey (2019), Billie Eilish (2019), and Meg Myers (2020), as has female-led band Shaed (2019).
"'Monster' Hits: Justin Bieber & Shawn Mendes, All Time Low and More Monstrous Hot 100 History"
"lovelytheband's 'Broken' Breaks Alternative Songs Longevity Record". Billboard. March 1, 2019. Retrieved March 1, 2019.
^ "Alternative Airplay". Billboard. October 2, 2010. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
^ "Alternative Songs Chart the Week of February 15, 2020". Billboard. Retrieved February 12, 2020.
Gary Trust (June 10, 2009). "Chart Beat: Pink, Black Eyed Peas, Shinedown". Billboard. Retrieved January 16, 2020.
^ "Jangle All The Way: New Acts Soften Alternative Airwaves". Billboard. Retrieved August 8, 2017.
^ "Alternative Airplay". Billboard. March 6, 2010. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
Rutherford, Kevin (May 20, 2019). "Billie Eilish Scores First Airplay Chart No. 1 as 'Bury a Friend' Tops Alternative Songs". Billboard. Retrieved July 31, 2019.
^ "Linkin Park – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved February 22, 2023.
"Alternative Airplay". Billboard. October 12, 2013. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
"Alternative Chart 25th Anniversary: Top 50 Artists, Most Top 10s, Most No. 1s & More". Billboard. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
^ "Modern Rock Tracks". Billboard. Nielsen Business Media. 106 (27): 102. July 2, 1994. Retrieved June 13, 2013.
^ "Alternative Airplay: April 22, 2006". Billboard. Retrieved February 19, 2023.
"Alternative Airplay". Billboard. March 14, 2020. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
"Green Day Breaks Alternative Songs No 1s Record". Billboard. April 14, 2020. Retrieved April 18, 2020.
Although Soundgarden's "Black Hole Sun" did not hit number one on the chart where it only peaked at number two on July 2, 1994,[65] it actually became the Modern Rock Tracks year-end number one single of 1994,[66] the only song to do so without ever being number one on the weekly chart.
^ "U2 – Chart History". Billboard. Retrieved April 14, 2020.
^ Unterberger, Andrew (January 8, 2021). "'Monster' Hits: Justin Bieber & Shawn Mendes, All Time Low and More Monstrous Hot 100 History". Billboard. Retrieved February 2, 2021.
^ Rutherford, Kevin (April 20, 2020). "The Killers Break Record for Longest Time Between Alternative Songs No. 1s". Billboard. Retrieved April 21, 2020.
"Alternative Airplay". Billboard. February 1, 2020. Retrieved March 3, 2023.
Unterberger, Andrew (January 8, 2021). "'Monster' Hits: Justin Bieber & Shawn Mendes, All Time Low and More Monstrous Hot 100 History". Billboard. Retrieved February 2, 2021.
^ "Red Hot Chili Peppers – Chart History - Alternative Airplay". Billboard. Retrieved March 28, 2022.
"Alternative Airplay: April 21, 2007". Billboard. Retrieved February 19, 2023.
Alternative Airplay (formerly known as Modern Rock Tracks (1988–2009) and Alternative Songs (2009–2020)) is a music chart in the United States that has appeared in Billboard magazine since September 10, 1988. It ranks the 40 most-played songs on alternative and modern rock radio stations. Introduced as Modern Rock Tracks, the chart served as a companion to the Mainstream Rock chart (then called Album Rock Tracks), and its creation was prompted by the explosion of alternative music on American radio in the late 1980s. During the first several years of the chart, it regularly featured music that did not receive commercial radio airplay anywhere but on a few modern rock and college rock radio stations. This included many electronic and post-punk artists. Gradually, as alternative rock became more mainstream (spearheaded by the grunge explosion in the early 1990s), alternative and mainstream rock radio stations began playing many of the same songs. By the late 2000s, the genres became more fully differentiated with only limited crossover. The Alternative Airplay chart features more alternative rock, indie pop, and pop punk artists while the Mainstream Rock chart leans towards more guitar-tinged blues rock, hard rock, and heavy metal.
In 1991, with the release of "Smells Like Teen Spirit" by Nirvana (which reached No. 1 on November 23, 1991),[7] grunge became a new form of alternative rock to chart. However, grunge did not have a dominating presence on the chart in its heyday; over time, grunge would grow into popularity as a representation of alternative rock in the mainstream. Iconic grunge songs fared decently on the Alternative Songs chart but better on the Mainstream Rock Songs.[6] For example, "Black" by Pearl Jam peaked only at No. 20 on the former but No. 3 on the latter.[8][9] This was because the college rock and new wave of the 1980s remained the dominant styles of the format, while grunge became an alternative rock style that was popular on the Mainstream Rock format.
"Alternative Songs Chart the Week of February 15, 2020". Billboard. Retrieved February 12, 2020.
"Billie Eilish Scores First Airplay Chart No. 1 as 'Bury a Friend' Tops Alternative Songs"
"Lorde Links Longest Alternative Songs Reign By A Woman With 'Royals'"
