Unit trust: A trust where the beneficiaries (called unitholders) each possess a certain share (called units) and can direct the trustee to pay money to them out of the trust property according to the number of units they possess. A unit trust is a vehicle for collective investment, rather than disposition, as the person who gives the property to the trustee is also the beneficiary.[37]
to give binding directions to the trustee in connection with the purchase, retention, sale, management, lending, pledging or charging of the trust property or the exercise of any powers or rights arising from such property;
Edward Jones Trust Company. Fundamental Duties of a Trustee: A Guide for Trustees in a post-Uniform Trust Code World.
Mitchell, Charles; Hayton, DJ; Matthews, P (2006). Underhill and Hayton's Law Relating to Trusts and Trustees (17th ed.). Butterworths.
Relevant to consider is what income is subject to taxation in Cyprus and the none domicile regime applicable in Cyprus.
Unit trusts: The trust has proved to be such a flexible concept that it has proved capable of working as an investment vehicle: the unit trust.
^ Goode, Roy M. (2 January 1996). Commercial Law (2nd ed.). London, U.K.: Penguin UK. ISBN 0140125345.
In the UK, a protective trust is a life interest that terminates upon the happening of a specified event; such as the bankruptcy of the beneficiary, or any attempt by an individual to dispose of their interest. They have become comparatively rare.
Society of Trust and Estate Practitioners, the international professional association for the trust industry
In some ways, the modern English trust is, when compared to other jurisdictions, more conservative in its requirements. For example, it retains the requirement that there be a beneficiary.[42] There are two main exceptions to this rule: charitable purpose trusts and Re Denley trusts.[43] This contrasts with other jurisdictions like Cyprus, the BVI, the Cayman Islands, the Isle of Man, Jersey and Gibraltar[44] which allow for non-charitable purpose trusts to be valid. This will normally be done by appointing a somebody to act as the trust's Protector. These purpose trusts allow for a trust to be created with a purpose (eg. 'to provide for N's education', where N is a family member) instead of a named beneficiary. The role of the Protector (also sometimes called an enforcer) is to hold the trustees to account, which the beneficiaries would usually have the right to do.
In addition to above the common law principles of certainty must be present.[38]
Co-ownership: Ownership of property by more than one person is facilitated by a trust. In particular, ownership of a matrimonial home is commonly effected by a trust with both partners as beneficiaries and one, or both, owning the legal title as trustee.
For the avoidance of any doubt, the regulator does not require particulars of the Settlor, the Beneficiaries and details of the trusts. Neither does the regulator store in any way the trust deed. On the contrary, they rely on the regulated entity to collect, store and update this information
^ "Section 2". Restatement of Trusts (Third ed.). St. Paul, Minn.: American Law Institute. 1992. p. 17. ISBN 9780314842466. OCLC 25422858.
^ a b c Glister, James; Lee, James (2015). "Certainty and Capacity". Hanbury and Martin: Modern Equity (20 ed.). Sweet & Maxwell. ISBN 9780414032408.
to appoint or remove any investment manager or investment adviser;
A trust is a legal relationship in which the holder of a right gives it to another person or entity who must keep and use it solely for another's benefit. In the Anglo-American common law, the party who entrusts the right is known as the "settlor", the party to whom the right is entrusted is known as the "trustee", the party for whose benefit the property is entrusted is known as the "beneficiary", and the entrusted property itself is known as the "corpus" or "trust property".[1][2] A testamentary trust is created by a will and arises after the death of the settlor.An inter vivos trust is created during the settlor's lifetime by a trust instrument. A trust may be revocable or irrevocable; an irrevocable trust can be "broken" (revoked) only by a judicial proceeding.
Subject Matter. The property subject to the trust must be clearly identified (Palmer v Simmonds). One may not, for example state, settle "the majority of my estate", as the precise extent cannot be ascertained. Trust property may be any form of specific property, be it real or personal, tangible or intangible. It is often, for example, real estate, shares or cash.
Constructive trust: Unlike an express trust, a constructive trust is not created by an agreement between a settlor and the trustee. A constructive trust is imposed by the law as an "equitable remedy". This generally occurs due to some wrongdoing, where the wrongdoer has acquired legal title to some property and cannot in good conscience be allowed to benefit from it. A constructive trust is, essentially, a legal fiction. For example, a court of equity recognizing a plaintiff's request for the equitable remedy of a constructive trust may decide that a constructive trust has been created and simply order the person holding the assets to deliver them to the person who rightfully should have them. The constructive trustee is not necessarily the person who is guilty of the wrongdoing, and in practice it is often a bank or similar organization. The distinction may be finer than the preceding exposition in that there are also said to be two forms of constructive trust, the institutional constructive trust and the remedial constructive trust. The latter is an "equitable remedy" imposed by law being truly remedial; the former arising due to some defect in the transfer of property.
NecrosisAvascular necrosisCoagulative necrosisLiquefactive necrosisGangrenous necrosisCaseous necrosisFat necrosisFibrinoid necrosisTemporal lobe necrosis
a 'life interest' ("to pay the income to x for her lifetime"); and
Intention. A mere expression of hope that a trust be created does not constitute the intent to create a trust. Conversely, the use of terms of art such as the word "trust" does not of itself establish whether an instrument is an express trust.[16] Disputes in this area mainly concerns differentiating gifts from trusts.
^ "Bare trusts". HM Revenue & Customs. Retrieved 1 November 2012.
^ American Bar Association. Ch.5 Living Trusts. Appears to be online copy of: The American Bar Association guide to wills and estates (1995). See also Ch. 4, Trusts.
to appoint or remove any trustee, enforcer, protector or beneficiary;
a written trust instrument created by the settlor and signed by both the settlor and the trustees (often referred to as an inter vivos or living trust);
In the United States the tax law allows trusts to be taxed as corporations, partnerships, or not at all depending on the circumstances, although trusts may be used for tax avoidance in certain situations.[11]: 478  For example, the trust-preferred security is a hybrid (debt and equity) security with favorable tax treatment which is treated as regulatory capital on banks' balance sheets. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act changed this somewhat by not allowing these assets to be a part of (large) banks' regulatory capital.[54]: 23
Trust law in civil law jurisdictions, generally including Continental Europe only exists in a limited number of jurisdictions (e.g. Curaçao, Liechtenstein and Sint Maarten). The trust may however be recognized as an instrument of foreign law in conflict of laws cases, for example within the Brussels regime (Europe) and the parties to the Hague Trust Convention. Tax avoidance concerns have historically been one of the reasons that European countries with a civil law system have been reluctant to adopt trusts.[11]
Scott, Austin. "Importance of the Trust". University of Colorado Law Review. U. Colo. L. Rev. 39: 177. doi:10.2307/1598930. JSTOR 1598930. Retrieved 6 April 2014. The greatest and most distinctive achievement performed by Englishmen in the field of jurisprudence is the development from century to century of the trust idea.
As noted above, the English trust arose from the court of the Lord Chancellor, known as the Court of Chancery.
Appointment: In trust law, "appointment" often has its everyday meaning. It is common to talk of "the appointment of a trustee", for example. However, "appointment" also has a technical trust law meaning, either:the act of "appointing" (i.e. giving) an asset from the trust to a beneficiary (usually where there is some choice in the matter—such as in a discretionary trust); orthe name of the document which gives effect to the appointment.
the name of the document which gives effect to the appointment.
Personal injury trust: A personal injury trust is any form of trust where funds are held by trustees for the benefit of a person who has suffered an injury and funded exclusively by funds derived from payments made in consequence of that injury.
A trust may have multiple trustees, and these trustees are the legal owners of the trust's property, but have a fiduciary duty to beneficiaries and various duties, such as a duty of care and a duty to inform.[20] If trustees do not adhere to these duties, they may be removed through a legal action. The trustee may be either a person or a legal entity such as a company, but typically the trust itself is not a legal entity and any litigation involving the trust must include the trustee as a party.[21]A trustee has many rights and responsibilities which vary based on the jurisdiction and trust instrument. If a trust lacks a trustee, a court may appoint a trustee.
Trust deed: A trust deed is a legal document that defines the trust such as the trustee, beneficiaries, settlor and appointer, and the terms and conditions of the agreement.
The regulation of the industry providing company and trust management functions (ASP) has also brought about the requirement to disclose to the regulator the existence of a Cyprus International Trust. Such obligation burdens the trust company and the information disclosed is the following:
^ a b c d e f HSharpe (18 August 2019). "Public disclosure of Cyprus International Trust". The Cyprus Lawyer. Retrieved 20 August 2019.
In some jurisdictions, certain types of assets may not be the subject of a trust without a written document.[15]
The income and profits derived within and outside of Cyprus are liable to every possible taxation imposed in Cyprus if the beneficiary is a resident of Cyprus in accordance with the Income Tax Laws of Cyprus.
For a trust to be validly constituted it must be presented to the commissioner of stamp duty and a one-time payment of Euro 430 is made. The commissioner does not keep a copy of the document.
A major use of trusts is to allow for the existence of unincorporated associations. These often are associations or groups of people that come together for a particular (usually non-commercial purpose). Common examples might be local social and sports clubs, some gentlemen's clubs, and some professional associations.
In the United States, the Uniform Trust Code provides for reasonable compensation and reimbursement for trustees subject to review by courts,[24] although trustees may be unpaid. Commercial banks acting as trustees typically charge about 1% of assets under management.[25]
Secret trust: A post mortem trust constituted externally from a will but imposing obligations as a trustee on one, or more, legatees of a will.
In the US jurisdiction this has two distinct meanings:In a simple trust the trustee has no active duty beyond conveying the property to the beneficiary at some future time determined by the trust. This is also called a 'bare trust'. All other trusts are special trusts where the trustee has active duties beyond this.A simple trust in Federal income tax law is one in which, under the terms of the trust document, all net income must be distributed on an annual basis.
"Bare trusts". HM Revenue & Customs. Retrieved 1 November 2012.
6Country specific variations											Toggle Country specific variations subsection																					6.1Cyprus																								6.1.1Settlor Powers provided by law																											6.1.2Duration of Cyprus International Trust																											6.1.3Charitable Trust and Purpose Trust																											6.1.4Confidentiality of Cyprus International Trust																								6.1.4.1Stamp Duty Commissioner for validating the creation of the Cyprus International Trust[39]																											6.1.4.2Regulatory Disclosure of ASPs managing a Cyprus International Trust[39]																											6.1.4.3Cyprus Beneficial Owner Register and Cyprus International Trust[39]																											6.1.4.4FATCA[39]																											6.1.4.5CRS[39]																														6.1.5Taxation of Cyprus International Trust[38]																														6.2England and Wales																								6.2.1History																											6.2.2Purpose trusts and the requirement for a beneficiary																											6.2.3Unincorporated Associations																														6.3South Africa																								6.3.1Asset protection																											6.3.2Tax considerations																														6.4United States																								6.4.1Estate planning																											6.4.2Estate tax effect
Hague Convention on the Law Applicable to Trusts and on their Recognition
The trust is widely considered to be the most innovative contribution of the English legal system.[7][verification needed] Today, trusts play a significant role in most common law systems, and their success has led some civil law jurisdictions to incorporate trusts into their civil codes. In Curaçao, for example, the trust was enacted into law on 1 January 2012; however, the Curaçao Civil Code only allows express trusts constituted by notarial instrument.[8] France has recently added a similar, Roman-law-based device to its own law with the fiducie,[9] amended in 2009;[10] the fiducie, unlike a trust, is a contractual relationship. Trusts are widely used internationally, especially in countries within the English law sphere of influence, and whilst most civil law jurisdictions do not generally contain the concept of a trust within their legal systems, they do recognise the concept under the Hague Convention on the Law Applicable to Trusts and on their Recognition (partly only the extent that they are parties thereto). The Hague Convention also regulates conflict of trusts.
^ Julius B. Levine & Randall L. Holton, Enforcement of Secret and Semi-Secret Trusts, 5 Prob. L.J. 7, 16 (1983)
Trust Law of the People's Republic of China (Order of the President No. 50) (PDF), Studio legale Tedioli, 28 April 2001
"Código de Asociaciones" [Code for Associations]. BOE (in Spanish). Retrieved 25 September 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
a 'remainder' ("to pay the capital to y after the death of x")
The formula clause may be: "I leave to my child the maximum allowable amount that is not subject to federal estate tax, with the remainder going to my wife." As of 2013, transfers to spouses are exempt from estate tax. See: After The Fiscal Cliff Deal: Estate And Gift Tax Explained. Forbes.
"Déclaration initiale d'une association" [Initial declaration of an association]. Service-Public.fr (in French). 25 May 2021. Retrieved 25 September 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Loi n°2007-211 du 19 février 2007 instituant la fiducie". Legifrance.gouv.fr, le service public de la diffusion du droit. 1 February 2009.
Statutory Business Trust: A trust created pursuant to a state's business trust statute used primarily for commercial purposes. Two prominent variants of Statutory Business Trusts are Delaware statutory trusts and Massachusetts business trusts. The Uniform Law Commission promulgated a final amended draft of the Uniform Statutory Entity Act (2009) in 2013. As of 24 January 2017, no states have adopted the Uniform Statutory Entity Act of 2009.[36]
Pension plans: typically set up as a trust, with the employer as settlor, and the employees and their dependents as beneficiaries.
Irrevocable trust: In contrast to a revocable trust, an irrevocable trust is one in which the terms of the trust cannot be amended or revised until the terms or purposes of the trust have been completed. Although in rare cases, a court may change the terms of the trust due to unexpected changes in circumstances that make the trust uneconomical or unwieldy to administer, under normal circumstances an irrevocable trust may not be changed by the trustee or the beneficiaries of the trust.
Employee trust: A trust for the benefit of employees. A United States example is a trust established to operate an Employee Stock Ownership Plan.
Stamp Duty Commissioner for validating the creation of the Cyprus International Trust[39][edit]
^ "Código de Asociaciones" [Code for Associations]. BOE (in Spanish). Retrieved 25 September 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Virgo, Graham (2020). The Principles of Equity & Trusts (4th ed.). Oxford: OUP. pp. 211–15. ISBN 978-0-19-885415-9.
Virgo, Graham (2020). The Principles of Equity & Trusts (4th ed.). Oxford: OUP. pp. 211–15. ISBN 978-0-19-885415-9.
Inter vivos trust (or 'living trust'): A settlor who is living at the time the trust is established creates an inter vivos trust.
Terms of the Trust means the settlor's wishes expressed in the Trust Instrument.
After The Fiscal Cliff Deal: Estate And Gift Tax Explained
Moffat, Graham (2005). Trusts Law: Text and Materials (4th ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p. 18. ISBN 9781139445283.
^ "Statutory Trust Entity Act (2009) (Last Amended 2013)". www.uniformlaws.org. Retrieved 24 January 2017.
"Ordonnance n°2009-79 du 22 janvier 2009 (consolidated version)". Legifrance.gouv.fr, le service public de la diffusion du droit. 1 February 2009.
Kirsh, Harvey J; Roth, Lori A (1 September 1997). "Construction law: Breach of trust in the construction industry". International Finance Law Review (IFLR). {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ a b c d HSharpe (18 August 2019). "Overview of Cyprus International Trust". The Cyprus Lawyer. Retrieved 20 August 2019.
Caraway, David (April 2015). "Testamentary Trusts". New York City Bar. Retrieved 14 December 2017.
Directed trust: In these types, a directed trustee is directed by a number of other trust participants in implementing the trust's execution; these participants may include a distribution committee, trust protector, or investment advisor. The directed trustee's role is administrative which involves following investment instructions, holding legal title to the trust assets, providing fiduciary and tax accounting, coordinating trust participants and offering dispute resolution among the participants
^ The formula clause may be: "I leave to my child the maximum allowable amount that is not subject to federal estate tax, with the remainder going to my wife." As of 2013, transfers to spouses are exempt from estate tax. See: After The Fiscal Cliff Deal: Estate And Gift Tax Explained. Forbes.
Generally, a private express trust requires three elements to be certain, which together are known as the "three certainties". These elements were determined in Knight v Knight to be intention, subject matter and objects.[16] The certainty of intention allows the court to ascertain a settlor's true reason for creating the trust. The certainties of subject matter and objects allow the court to administer trust when the trustees fail to do so.[17] The court determines whether there is sufficient certainty by construing the words used in the trust instrument. These words are construed objectively in their "reasonable meaning",[18] within the context of the entire instrument.[16] Despite intention being integral to express trusts, the court will try not to let trusts fail for the lack of certainty.[19]
Under South African law living trusts are considered tax payers. Two types of tax apply to living trusts, namely income tax and capital gains tax (CGT). A trust pays income tax at a flat rate of 40% (individuals pay according to income scales, usually less than 20%). The trust's income can, however, be taxed in the hands of either the trust or the beneficiary. A trust pays CGT at the rate of 20% (individuals pay 10%). Trusts do not pay deceased estate tax (although trusts may be required to pay back outstanding loans to a deceased estate, in which the loan amounts are taxable with deceased estate tax).[52]
^ "The Dodd–Frank Act: Commentary and Insights" (PDF). Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP & Affiliates. Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 April 2012.
Hudson, A (2003). Equity and Trusts (3rd ed.). Cavendish Publishing. ISBN 1-85941-729-9.
Living trusts generally do not shelter assets from the U.S. federal estate tax. Married couples may, however, effectively double the estate tax exemption amount by setting up the trust with a formula clause.[57]
Hybrid trust: Combines elements of both fixed and discretionary trusts. In a hybrid trust, the trustee must pay a certain amount of the trust property to each beneficiary fixed by the settlor. But the trustee has discretion as to how any remaining trust property, once these fixed amounts have been paid out, is to be paid to the beneficiaries.
"Client's Guide to Understanding a Lawyer's Trust Account - Lawyers Mutual Insurance Company". www.lawyersmutualnc.com. Retrieved 1 July 2019.
In South Africa, minor children cannot inherit assets and in the absence of a trust and assets held in a state institution, the Guardian's Fund, and released to the children in adulthood. Therefore, testamentary (will) trusts often leave assets in a trust for the benefit of these minor children.
Resulting trust: A resulting trust is a form of implied trust which occurs where (1) a trust fails, wholly or in part, as a result of which the settlor becomes entitled to the assets; or (2) a voluntary payment is made by A to B in circumstances which do not suggest gifting. B becomes the resulting trustee of A's payment.
Dynasty trust (also known as a 'generation-skipping trust'): A type of trust in which assets are passed down to the grantor's grandchildren, not the grantor's children. The children of the grantor never take title to the assets. This allows the grantor to avoid the estate taxes that would apply if the assets were transferred to their children first. Generation-skipping trusts can still be used to provide financial benefits to a grantor's children, however, because any income generated by the trust's assets can be made accessible to the grantor's children while still leaving the assets in trust for the grandchildren.
Fundamental Duties of a Trustee: A Guide for Trustees in a post-Uniform Trust Code World
^ "Déclaration initiale d'une association" [Initial declaration of an association]. Service-Public.fr (in French). 25 May 2021. Retrieved 25 September 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
At the time, land ownership in England was based on the feudal system. When a landowner left England to fight in the Crusades, he conveyed ownership of his lands in his absence to manage the estate and pay and receive feudal dues, on the understanding that the ownership would be conveyed back on his return. However, Crusaders often encountered refusal to hand over the property upon their return. Unfortunately for the Crusader, English common law did not recognize his claim. As far as the King's courts were concerned, the land belonged to the trustee, who was under no obligation to return it. The Crusader had no legal claim. The disgruntled Crusader would then petition the king, who would refer the matter to his Lord Chancellor. The Lord Chancellor could decide a case according to his conscience. At this time, the principle of equity was born in English law.However, the original notion of equity goes all the way back to Aristotle and is found in book V, chapter 10 of his Ethics.Indeed, the universities of the 13th century often wrote commentaries on Aristotle's works, and it was these universities that gave rise to the lawyers of the time.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Trust". BusinessDictionary. WebFinance, Inc. Retrieved 10 August 2017.
^ Last Beneficiary Standing: Identifying the Proper Parties in Breach of Fiduciary Cases. American Bar Association, Section of Real Property, Trust, & Estate Law. 20th Annual Real Property & Estate Planning Symposia.
"The Dodd–Frank Act: Commentary and Insights" (PDF). Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP & Affiliates. Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 April 2012.
Simple trust:In the US jurisdiction this has two distinct meanings:In a simple trust the trustee has no active duty beyond conveying the property to the beneficiary at some future time determined by the trust. This is also called a 'bare trust'. All other trusts are special trusts where the trustee has active duties beyond this.A simple trust in Federal income tax law is one in which, under the terms of the trust document, all net income must be distributed on an annual basis.In the UK a bare or simple trust is one where the beneficiary has an immediate and absolute right to both the capital and income held in the trust. Bare trusts are commonly used to transfer assets to minors. Trustees hold the assets on trust until the beneficiary is 18 in England and Wales, or 16 in Scotland.[35]
"Section 2". Restatement of Trusts (Third ed.). St. Paul, Minn.: American Law Institute. 1992. p. 17. ISBN 9780314842466. OCLC 25422858.
Trusts may be created by the expressed intentions of the settlor also known as the founder (express trusts)[12] or they may be created by operation of law known as implied trusts. An implied trust is one created by a court of equity because of acts or situations of the parties. Implied trusts are divided into two categories: resulting and constructive. A resulting trust is implied by the law to work out the presumed intentions of the parties, but it does not take into consideration their expressed intent. A constructive trust[13] is a trust implied by law to work out justice between the parties, regardless of their intentions.
^ Restatement (Third) of the Law of Trusts § 1.
Negative aspects of using a living trust as opposed to a will and probate include upfront legal expenses, the expense of trust administration, and a lack of certain safeguards. The cost of the trust may be 1% of the estate per year versus the one-time probate cost of 1 to 4% for probate, which applies whether or not there is a drafted will. Unlike trusts, wills must be signed by two to three witnesses, the number depending on the law of the jurisdiction in which the will is executed. Legal protections that apply to probate but do not automatically apply to trusts include provisions that protect the decedent's assets from mismanagement or embezzlement, such as requirements of bonding, insurance, and itemized accountings of probate assets.
Spendthrift clauses: Trusts may be used to protect beneficiaries (for example, one's children) against their own inability to handle money. These are especially attractive for spendthrifts. Courts may generally recognize spendthrift clauses against trust beneficiaries and their creditors, but not against creditors of a settlor.[citation needed]
"The Prevention and Suppression of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Law of 2007-2018". CySEC. 20 August 2019.
The trustee is the legal owner of the property in trust, as fiduciary for the beneficiary or beneficiaries who is/are the equitable owner(s) of the trust property. Trustees thus have a fiduciary duty to manage the trust to the benefit of the equitable owners. They must provide a regular accounting of trust income and expenditures. Trustees may be compensated and be reimbursed for their expenses. A court of competent jurisdiction can remove a trustee who breaches their fiduciary duty. Some breaches of fiduciary duty can be charged and tried as criminal offenses in a court of law. A trustee can be a natural person, a business entity or a public body. A trust in the United States may be subject to federal and state taxation.
^ Virgo, Graham (2020). The Principles of Equity & Trusts (4th ed.). Oxford: OUP. p. 208. ISBN 978-0-19-885415-9.
"The Prevention and Suppression of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Law of 2007-2018"
Semi-secret trust: A trust in which a will demonstrates the intention to create a trust, names a trustee, but does not identify the intended beneficiary.[34]
There are several features which distinguish the modern English trust both from other common law trusts and from civil law approaches.
to change the applicable law governing the trust or the forum for the administration of the trust;
M. Bergervoet and D.S. Mansur (14 April 2012). "De Curaçaose trust in de partijk" (PDF). Weekblad voor Privaatrecht, Notariaat en Registratie (in Dutch).
Virgo, Graham (2020). The Principles of Equity & Trusts (4th ed.). Oxford: OUP. p. 208. ISBN 978-0-19-885415-9.
Purpose trust: Or, more accurately, non-charitable purpose trust (all charitable trusts are purpose trusts). Generally, the law does not permit non-charitable purpose trusts outside of certain anomalous exceptions which arose under the eighteenth-century common law (and, arguable, Quistclose trusts). Certain jurisdictions (principally, offshore jurisdictions) have enacted legislation validating non-charitable purpose trusts generally.
Roman law had a well-developed concept of the trust (fideicommissum) in terms of "testamentary trusts" created by wills but never developed the concept of the inter vivos (living) trusts which apply while the creator lives. This was created by later common law jurisdictions. Personal trust law developed in England at the time of the Crusades, during the 12th and 13th centuries. In medieval English trust law, the settlor was known as the feoffor to uses, while the trustee was known as the feoffee to uses, and the beneficiary was known as the cestui que use, or cestui que trust .
"The Functions of Trust Law: A Comparative Legal and Economic Analysis"
Indian Public Administration: Institutions and Issues. New Age International. 1995. pp. 271–272. ISBN 978-81-7328-068-9. Retrieved 2 January 2017.
^ "Types of Trust | South African Revenue Service". 12 February 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2022.
'As Trustee For' (ATF): This is the legal term used to imply that an entity is acting as a trustee.
6.2England and Wales																								6.2.1History																											6.2.2Purpose trusts and the requirement for a beneficiary																											6.2.3Unincorporated Associations
The Cyprus International Trust Law of 2012 also introduces certain settlor powers which if exercised will not invalidate the trust and or do not need to be inserted in the trust deed for the settlor to exercise them.[38] The powers introduced are:
Asset protection: Trusts may allow beneficiaries to protect assets from creditors as the trust may be bankruptcy remote. For example, a discretionary trust, of which the settlor may be the protector and a beneficiary, but not the trustee and not the sole beneficiary. In such an arrangement the settlor may be in a position to benefit from the trust assets, without owning them, and therefore in theory protected from creditors. In addition, the trust may attempt to preserve anonymity with a completely unconnected name (e.g., "The Teddy Bear Trust"). These strategies are ethically and legally controversial.
in the United States, a trust is presumed to be irrevocable unless the instrument or will creating it states it is revocable, except in Pennsylvania, California, Oklahoma and Texas (and any other state that has adopted section 602 of the Uniform Trust Code), in which trusts are presumed to be revocable unless the instrument or will creating them states they are irrevocable.
For example, in England, trusts over land must be evidenced in writing under s.56 of the Law of Property Act 1925
Objects. The beneficiaries of the trust must be clearly identified,[17] or at least be ascertainable (Re Hain's Settlement). In the case of discretionary trusts, where the trustees have power to decide who the beneficiaries will be, the settlor must have described a clear class of beneficiaries (McPhail v Doulton). Beneficiaries may include people not born at the date of the trust (for example, "my future grandchildren"). Alternatively, the object of a trust could be a charitable purpose rather than specific beneficiaries.
Spendthrift trust: It is a trust put into place for the benefit of a person who is unable to control their spending. It gives the trustee the power to decide how the trust funds may be spent for the benefit of the beneficiary.
3Basic principles											Toggle Basic principles subsection																					3.1Terminology																											3.2Creation																											3.3Formalities																											3.4Trustees																											3.5Beneficiaries
a trust for a minor ("to x if she attains 21");
The settlor must be of sound mind and of the right age.
Ausness, Richard C. (2019). "A Mere Expectancy: What Rights Do Beneficiaries of a Revocable Trust Have Prior to the Death of the Settlor". Quinnipiac Probate Law Journal. 32 (4): 376.
any other purpose beneficial to the public in general or which may reasonably be considered to be relevant to any of above
In the United States, state law, variable from state to state, governs trusts. Many states have adopted the Uniform Trust Code, and there are also broad similarities among states' common law of trust. These similarities are summarized in the Restatements of the Law, such as the Restatement of Trusts, Third (2003−08). Additionally, as a practical matter, federal law considerations such as federal taxes administered by the Internal Revenue Service may affect the structure and creation of trusts.
^ "Bahr v Nicolay (No 2) [1988] HCA 16; (1988) 164 CLR 604 (15 June 1988)".
^ For example, in England, trusts over land must be evidenced in writing under s.56 of the Law of Property Act 1925
Implied trust: as distinct from an express trust, is created where some of the legal requirements for an express trust are not met, but an intention on behalf of the parties to create a trust can be presumed to exist. A resulting trust may be deemed to be present where a trust instrument is not properly drafted and a portion of the equitable title has not been provided for. In such a case, the law may raise a resulting trust for the benefit of the grantor (the creator of the trust). In other words, the grantor may be deemed to be a beneficiary of the portion of the equitable title that was not properly provided for in the trust document.
While trusts originated in England, and therefore English trusts law has had a significant influence, particularly among common law legal systems such as those of the Commonwealth or the United States, the impact of trust law has been wide and varied. Even under common law systems, the basic notion of a trust has been implemented in strikingly different ways.
Fixed trust: The entitlement of the beneficiaries is fixed by the settlor. The trustee has little or no discretion. Common examples are:a trust for a minor ("to x if she attains 21");a 'life interest' ("to pay the income to x for her lifetime"); anda 'remainder' ("to pay the capital to y after the death of x")
Express trust: An express trust arises where a settlor deliberately and consciously decides to create a trust, over their assets, either now, or upon their later death. In these cases, this will be achieved by signing a trust instrument, which will either be a will or a trust deed. Almost all trusts dealt with in the trust industry are of this type. They contrast with resulting and constructive trusts. The intention of the parties to create the trust must be shown clearly by their language or conduct. For an express trust to exist, there must be certainty to the objects of the trust and the trust property. In the USA Statute of Frauds provisions require express trusts to be evidenced in writing if the trust property is above a certain value, or is real estate.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Trust". BusinessDictionary. WebFinance, Inc. Retrieved 10 August 2017.
"Bahr v Nicolay (No 2) [1988] HCA 16; (1988) 164 CLR 604 (15 June 1988)"
Last Beneficiary Standing: Identifying the Proper Parties in Breach of Fiduciary Cases
Autumn Statement 2012 (PDF). HM Treasury. 2012. p. 43. ISBN 978-0-10-184802-2.
Cyprus legislators enacted the Cyprus International Trusts Law of 2012 with an aim to facilitate the establishment of trusts by non-Cypriot residents. The Cyprus International Trust is based on common law principles however the Cyprus International Trusts Law of 2012 introduces certain conditions and requirements to for the trust to qualify under the same law. These conditions are:
the will of a decedent, usually called a testamentary trust; or
Grantor retained annuity trust ('GRAT'): an irrevocable trust whereby a grantor transfers asset(s), as a gift, into a trust and receives an annual payment from the trust for a period of time specified in the trust instrument. At the end of the term, the financial property is transferred (tax-free) to the named beneficiaries. This trust is commonly used in the U.S. to facilitate large financial gifts that are not subject to a 'gift tax'.
The beneficiaries must not be residents of Cyprus for at least 1 year prior to the establishment of the Cyprus International Trust.
There are two types of living trusts in South Africa, namely vested trusts and discretionary trusts. In vested trusts, the benefits of the beneficiaries are set out in the trust deed, whereas in discretionary trusts the trustees have full discretion at all times as to how much and when each beneficiary is to benefit.
Standby Trust (or 'Pourover Trust)': The trust is empty at creation during life and the will transfers the property into the trust at death. This is a statutory trust.
^ HSharpe (18 July 2019). "Cyprus Beneficial Ownership Register". The Cyprus Lawyer. Retrieved 20 August 2019.
Oakley JA. (1996). Trends in Contemporary Trust Law, p. 108.
Revocable trust: A trust of this kind may be amended, altered or revoked by its settlor at any time, provided the settlor is not mentally incapacitated. Revocable trusts are becoming increasingly common in the US as a substitute for a will to minimize administrative costs associated with probate and to provide centralized administration of a person's final affairs after death.
E-book: Trusts for Business Owners, by Peter Carruthers and Robert Velosa.
Mitchell, Charles; Hayton, DJ (2005). Hayton and Marshall's Commentary and Cases on the Law of Trusts and Equitable Remedies (12th ed.). Sweet & Maxwell.
Glister, James; Lee, James (2015). "Certainty and Capacity". Hanbury and Martin: Modern Equity (20 ed.). Sweet & Maxwell. ISBN 9780414032408.
HSharpe (18 July 2019). "Cyprus Beneficial Ownership Register". The Cyprus Lawyer. Retrieved 20 August 2019.
An owner placing property into trust turns over part of their bundle of rights to the trustee, separating the property's legal ownership and control from its equitable ownership and benefits. This may be done for tax reasons or to control the property and its benefits if the settlor is absent, incapacitated, or deceased. Testamentary trusts may be created in wills, defining how money and property will be handled for children or other beneficiaries.
Martinez, Michael J. (2007). Vault Career Guide to Private Wealth Management. New York, New York: Vault, Inc. p. 18. ISBN 9781581314489. OCLC 86069641.
^ Kirsh, Harvey J; Roth, Lori A (1 September 1997). "Construction law: Breach of trust in the construction industry". International Finance Law Review (IFLR). {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
The beneficiaries are beneficial (or 'equitable') owners of the trust property. Either immediately or eventually, the beneficiaries will receive income from the trust property, or they will receive the property itself. The extent of a beneficiary's interest depends on the wording of the trust document. One beneficiary may be entitled to income (for example, interest from a bank account), whereas another may be entitled to the entirety of the trust property when they attains the age of twenty-five years. The settlor has much discretion when creating the trust, subject to some limitations imposed by law.
In many ways trusts in South Africa operate similarly to other common law countries, although the law of South Africa is actually a hybrid of the British common law system and Roman-Dutch law.
In South Africa, in addition to the traditional living trusts and will trusts there is a "bewind trust" (inherited from the Roman-Dutch bewind administered by a bewindhebber)[49] in which the beneficiaries own the trust assets while the trustee administers the trust, although this is regarded by modern Dutch law as not actually a trust.[50] Bewind trusts are created as trading vehicles providing trustees with limited liability and certain tax advantages.[51][citation needed]
In accordance with Section 7, a Cyprus International Trust may be formed for one or more of the following purposes:
At least one trustee must be residing in Cyprus during the whole duration of the trust.
^ Scott, Austin. "Importance of the Trust". University of Colorado Law Review. U. Colo. L. Rev. 39: 177. doi:10.2307/1598930. JSTOR 1598930. Retrieved 6 April 2014. The greatest and most distinctive achievement performed by Englishmen in the field of jurisprudence is the development from century to century of the trust idea.
The Prevention and Suppression of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Law of 2007-2018[40] introduced mandatory disclosure requirements in respects to trusts. Generally known as the Cyprus Beneficial Ownership Register.[41] Subject to this the following information will be required to be mandatory disclosed:
the act of "appointing" (i.e. giving) an asset from the trust to a beneficiary (usually where there is some choice in the matter—such as in a discretionary trust); or
Although trusts are often associated with intrafamily wealth transfers, they have become very important in American capital markets, particularly through pension funds (in certain countries essentially always trusts) and mutual funds (often trusts).[11]
6.1.4Confidentiality of Cyprus International Trust																								6.1.4.1Stamp Duty Commissioner for validating the creation of the Cyprus International Trust[39]																											6.1.4.2Regulatory Disclosure of ASPs managing a Cyprus International Trust[39]																											6.1.4.3Cyprus Beneficial Owner Register and Cyprus International Trust[39]																											6.1.4.4FATCA[39]																											6.1.4.5CRS[39]
The trustees administer the affairs attendant to the trust. The trust's affairs may include prudently investing the assets of the trust, accounting for and reporting periodically to the beneficiaries, filing required tax returns and other duties. In some cases dependent upon the trust instrument, the trustees must make discretionary decisions as to whether beneficiaries should receive trust assets for their benefit. A trustee may be held personally liable for problems, although fiduciary liability insurance similar to directors and officers liability insurance can be purchased. For example, a trustee could be liable if assets are not properly invested. In addition, a trustee may be liable to its beneficiaries even where the trust has made a profit but consent has not been given.[22] However, in the United States, similar to directors and officers, an exculpatory clause may minimize liability; although this was previously held to be against public policy, this position has changed.[23]
The taxpayer whose residence has been 'locked' into a trust has now been given another opportunity to take advantage of these CGT exemptions. The Taxation Law Amendment Act of 30 September 2009 commenced on 1 January 2010 and granted a 2-year window period from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2011, affording a natural person the opportunity to take transfer of the residence with advantage of no transfer duty being payable or CGT consequences. Whilst taxpayers can take advantage of this opening of a window of opportunity, it is not likely that it will ever become available thereafter.[53]
Incentive trust: A trust that uses distributions from income or principal as an incentive to encourage or discourage certain behaviors on the part of the beneficiary. The term "incentive trust" is sometimes used to distinguish trusts that provide fixed conditions for access to trust funds from discretionary trusts that leave such decisions up to the trustee.
to exercise the powers of a director or officer or issue binding directions as to the appointment or removal of a director or officer of any company, wholly or partly owned by the trust;
Under the Common Reporting Standard decree, a trust would in most cases classify as either a Reporting Financial Institution (FI) or a Passive Non-Financial Entity (Passive NFE). If the trust is an FI the trust or the trustee will have an obligation to report to its local tax authority in Cyprus in respects to the reportable accounts.
^ "Chapter 15". Restatment of Trusts (Third ed.). St. Paul, Minn.: American Law Institute. 1992. p. 67. ISBN 9780314842466. OCLC 25422858.
6.1Cyprus																								6.1.1Settlor Powers provided by law																											6.1.2Duration of Cyprus International Trust																											6.1.3Charitable Trust and Purpose Trust																											6.1.4Confidentiality of Cyprus International Trust																								6.1.4.1Stamp Duty Commissioner for validating the creation of the Cyprus International Trust[39]																											6.1.4.2Regulatory Disclosure of ASPs managing a Cyprus International Trust[39]																											6.1.4.3Cyprus Beneficial Owner Register and Cyprus International Trust[39]																											6.1.4.4FATCA[39]																											6.1.4.5CRS[39]																														6.1.5Taxation of Cyprus International Trust[38]
^ Autumn Statement 2012 (PDF). HM Treasury. 2012. p. 43. ISBN 978-0-10-184802-2.
^ Indian Public Administration: Institutions and Issues. New Age International. 1995. pp. 271–272. ISBN 978-81-7328-068-9. Retrieved 2 January 2017.
Settlor(s): This is the person (or persons) who creates the trust. Grantor(s) is a common synonym.
Schanzenbach MM, Sitkoff RF. (2007). Did Reform of Prudent Trust Investment Laws Change Trust Portfolio Allocation?. Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center for Law, Economics and Business Discussion Paper Series. Paper 580.
Remuneration trusts: for the benefit of directors and employees or companies or their families or dependents. This form of trust was developed by Paul Baxendale-Walker and has since gained widespread use.[29]
Corporate structures: Complex business arrangements, most often in the finance and insurance sectors, sometimes use trusts among various other entities (e.g., corporations) in their structure.
American Bar Association. Ch.5 Living Trusts. Appears to be online copy of: The American Bar Association guide to wills and estates (1995). See also Ch. 4, Trusts.
^ a b c d e Hansmann, Henry; Mattei, Ugo (May 1998). "The Functions of Trust Law: A Comparative Legal and Economic Analysis" (PDF). New York University Law Review. Retrieved 17 August 2018.
Asset-protection trust: The concept of an asset-protection trust encompasses any form of trust that provides for funds to be held on a discretionary basis. Such trusts are set up in an attempt to avoid or mitigate the effects of taxation, divorce and bankruptcy on the beneficiary. Such trusts may be proscribed or limited in their effect by governments and the courts.
Stamp Duty Commissioner for validating the creation of the Cyprus International Trust[39]
A simple trust in Federal income tax law is one in which, under the terms of the trust document, all net income must be distributed on an annual basis.
Trust distributions: A trust distribution is any income or asset that is given out to the beneficiaries of the trust.
The settlor must not be a resident of Cyprus for at least 1 year prior to the establishment of the Cyprus International Trust.
Appointer: This is the person who can appoint a new trustee or remove an existing one. This person is usually mentioned in the trust deed.
Under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) a Trustee and or a Trust may be classified as a Foreign Financial Institution (FFI) requiring registration with the IRS and disclosure of results on a yearly basis.
There are strong restrictions regarding a trustee with a conflict of interest. Courts can reverse a trustee's actions, order profits returned, and impose other sanctions if they find a trustee has failed in any of their duties. Such a failure is a civil breach of trust and can leave a neglectful or dishonest trustee with severe liabilities for the breach. It is highly advisable for settlors and in many cases trustees to seek legal advice before entering into or creating a trust agreement and trustees must take great care in acting or omitting to act to avoid unlawful mistakes.
QTIP Trust: Short for "qualified terminal interest property".A trust recognized under the tax laws of the United States which qualifies for the marital gift exclusion from the estate tax.
^ See for example T Choithram International SA and others v Pagarani and others [2001] 2 All ER 492
^ Re Hay's Settlement Trusts, [1981] 3 All ER 786.
Legal retainer – Lawyers in certain countries often require that a legal retainer be paid upfront and held in trust until such time as the legal work is performed and billed to the client, this serves as a minimum guarantee of remuneration should the client become insolvent.[31] However, strict legal ethical codes apply to the use of legal retainer trusts.[32]
^ Schanzenbach MM, Sitkoff RF. (2007). Did Reform of Prudent Trust Investment Laws Change Trust Portfolio Allocation?. Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center for Law, Economics and Business Discussion Paper Series. Paper 580.
to advance, distribute, pay or otherwise apply income or capital of the trust property or to give directions for the making of such advancement, distribution, payment or application
Beneficiary: A beneficiary is anyone who receives benefits from any assets the trust owns.
to restrict the exercise of any power or discretion of a trustee by requiring that they are only exercisable with the consent of the settlor or any other person expressly specified in the terms governing the trust.
Julius B. Levine & Randall L. Holton, Enforcement of Secret and Semi-Secret Trusts, 5 Prob. L.J. 7, 16 (1983)
^ Miller, Winston E. (18 December 2009). "Dump That Trust Through The Window: Family Trust Tax Window". Winston Miller Attorneys.
Property of any sort may be held in a trust. The uses of trusts are many and varied, for both personal and commercial reasons, and trusts may provide benefits in estate planning, asset protection, and taxes. Living trusts may be created during a person's life (through the drafting of a trust instrument) or after death in a will.
"Chapter 15". Restatment of Trusts (Third ed.). St. Paul, Minn.: American Law Institute. 1992. p. 67. ISBN 9780314842466. OCLC 25422858.
Last Beneficiary Standing: Identifying the Proper Parties in Breach of Fiduciary Cases. American Bar Association, Section of Real Property, Trust, & Estate Law. 20th Annual Real Property & Estate Planning Symposia.
Trust Law of the People's Republic of China (Order of the President No. 50)
^ "Loi n°2007-211 du 19 février 2007 instituant la fiducie". Legifrance.gouv.fr, le service public de la diffusion du droit. 1 February 2009.
^ Oakley JA. (1996). Trends in Contemporary Trust Law, p. 108.
The Lord Chancellor would consider it "unconscionable" that the legal owner could go back on his word and deny the claims of the Crusader (the "true" owner). Therefore, he would find in favour of the returning Crusader. Over time, it became known that the Lord Chancellor's court (the Court of Chancery) would continually recognize the claim of a returning Crusader. The legal owner would hold the land for the benefit of the original owner and would be compelled to convey it back to him when requested. The Crusader was the "beneficiary" and the acquaintance the "trustee". The term "use of land" was coined, and in time developed into what we now know as a trust.
The use of trusts as a means to inherit substantial wealth may be associated with some negative connotations; some beneficiaries who are able to live comfortably from trust proceeds without having to work a job may be jokingly referred to as "trust fund babies" (regardless of age) or "trustafarians".[26]
^ "Ordonnance n°2009-79 du 22 janvier 2009 (consolidated version)". Legifrance.gouv.fr, le service public de la diffusion du droit. 1 February 2009.
Trusts go by many different names, depending on the characteristics or the purpose of the trust. Because trusts often have multiple characteristics or purposes, a single trust might accurately be described in several ways. For example, a living trust is often an express trust, which is also a revocable trust, and might include an incentive trust, and so forth.
Charities: In some common law jurisdictions all charities must take the form of trusts. In others, corporations may be charities also. In most jurisdictions, charities are tightly regulated for the public benefit (in England, for example, by the Charity Commission).
Wills and estate planning: Trusts frequently appear in wills (indeed, technically, the administration of every deceased's estate is a form of trust). Conventional wills typically leave assets to the deceased's spouse (if any), and then to the children equally. If the children are under 18, or under some other age mentioned in the will (21 and 25 are common), a trust must come into existence until the 'contingency age' is reached. The executor of the will is (usually) the trustee, and the children are the beneficiaries. The trustee will have powers to assist the beneficiaries during their minority.[28]
Hansmann, Henry; Mattei, Ugo (May 1998). "The Functions of Trust Law: A Comparative Legal and Economic Analysis" (PDF). New York University Law Review. Retrieved 17 August 2018.
The beneficiary or the class of beneficiaries if they have not been identified yet
See for example T Choithram International SA and others v Pagarani and others [2001] 2 All ER 492
Until recently, there were tax advantages to living trusts in South Africa, although most of these advantages have been removed. Protection of assets from creditors is a modern advantage. With notable exceptions, assets held by the trust are not owned by the trustees or the beneficiaries, the creditors of trustees or beneficiaries can have no claim against the trust. Under the Insolvency Act (Act 24 of 1936), assets transferred into a living trust remain at risk from external creditors for 6 months if the previous owner of the assets is solvent at the time of transfer, or 24 months if he/she is insolvent at the time of transfer. After 24 months, creditors have no claim against assets in the trust, although they can attempt to attach the loan account, thereby forcing the trust to sell its assets. Assets can be transferred into the living trust by selling it to the trust (through a loan granted to the trust) or donating cash to it (any natural person can donate R100 000 per year without attracting donations tax; 20% donations tax applies to further donations within the same tax year).
T Choithram International SA and others v Pagarani and others
Special Power of Appointment trust (SPA Trust): A trust implementing a special power of appointment to provide asset protection features.
This page was last edited on 16 March 2023, at 11:23 (UTC).
^ "Client's Guide to Understanding a Lawyer's Trust Account - Lawyers Mutual Insurance Company". www.lawyersmutualnc.com. Retrieved 1 July 2019.
^ Edward Jones Trust Company. Fundamental Duties of a Trustee: A Guide for Trustees in a post-Uniform Trust Code World.
In a simple trust the trustee has no active duty beyond conveying the property to the beneficiary at some future time determined by the trust. This is also called a 'bare trust'. All other trusts are special trusts where the trustee has active duties beyond this.
In a relevant sense, a trust can be viewed as a generic form of a corporation where the settlors (investors) are also the beneficiaries. This is particularly evident in the Delaware business trust, which could theoretically, with the language in the "governing instrument", be organized as a cooperative corporation or a limited liability corporation,[11]: 475–6  although traditionally the Massachusetts business trust has been commonly used in the US. One of the most significant aspects of trusts is the ability to partition and shield assets from the trustee, multiple beneficiaries, and their respective creditors (particularly the trustee's creditors), making it "bankruptcy remote", and leading to its use in pensions, mutual funds, and asset securitization[11] as well protection of individual spendthrifts through the spendthrift trust.
Goode, Roy M. (2 January 1996). Commercial Law (2nd ed.). London, U.K.: Penguin UK. ISBN 0140125345.
Construction law: In Canada[30] and Minnesota monies owed by employers to contractors or by contractors to subcontractors on construction projects must by law be held in trust. In the event of contractor insolvency, this makes it much more likely that subcontractors will be paid for work completed.
Protective trust: Here the terminology is different between the UK and the USA:In the UK, a protective trust is a life interest that terminates upon the happening of a specified event; such as the bankruptcy of the beneficiary, or any attempt by an individual to dispose of their interest. They have become comparatively rare.In the US, a 'protective trust' is a type of trust that was devised for use in estate planning. (In another jurisdiction this might be thought of as one type of asset protection trust.) Often a person, A, wishes to leave property to another person B. A, however, fears that the property might be claimed by creditors before A dies, and that therefore B would receive none of it. A could establish a trust with B as the beneficiary, but then A would not be entitled to use of the property before they died. Protective trusts were developed as a solution to this situation. A would establish a trust with both A and B as beneficiaries, with the trustee instructed to allow A use of the property until they died, and thereafter to allow its use to B. The property is then safe from being claimed by A's creditors, at least so long as the debt was entered into after the trust's establishment. This use of trusts is similar to life estates and remainders, and is frequently used as an alternative to them.
"Bahr v Nicolay (No 2) [1988] HCA 16; (1988) 164 CLR 604 (15 June 1988)".
^ Kam Fan Sin, The Legal Nature of the Unit Trust, Clarendon Press, 1998.
Trustee: A person (either an individual, a corporation or more than one of either) who administers a trust. A trustee is considered a fiduciary and owes the highest duty under the law to protect trust assets from unreasonable loss for the trust's beneficiaries.
the relief of those in need by reason of youth, age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantages
For a living trust, the grantor may retain some level of control to the trust, such by appointment as protector under the trust instrument. Living trusts also, in practical terms, tend to be driven to large extent by tax considerations. If a living trust fails, the property will usually be held for the grantor/settlor on resulting trusts, which in some notable cases, has had high tax consequences.[citation needed]
Miller, Winston E. (18 December 2009). "Dump That Trust Through The Window: Family Trust Tax Window". Winston Miller Attorneys.
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Privacy: Trusts may be created purely for privacy. The terms of a will are public in certain jurisdictions, while the terms of a trust are not.
Tax planning: The tax consequences of doing anything using a trust are usually different from the tax consequences of achieving the same effect by another route (if, indeed, it would be possible to do so). In many cases, the tax consequences of using the trust are better than the alternative, and trusts are therefore frequently used for legal tax avoidance. For an example see the "nil-band discretionary trust", explained at Inheritance Tax (United Kingdom).
Special trust: In the US, a special trust, also called complex trust, contrasts with a simple trust (see above). It does not require the income be paid out within the subject tax year. The funds from a complex trust can also be used to donate to a charity or for charitable purposes.
Kam Fan Sin, The Legal Nature of the Unit Trust, Clarendon Press, 1998.
HSharpe (18 August 2019). "Public disclosure of Cyprus International Trust". The Cyprus Lawyer. Retrieved 20 August 2019.
^ "The Prevention and Suppression of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Law of 2007-2018". CySEC. 20 August 2019.
While the trustee is given legal title to the trust property, in accepting title the trustee owes a number of fiduciary duties to the beneficiaries. The primary duties owed are those of loyalty, prudence and impartiality.[6] Trustees may be held to a very high standard of care in their dealings to enforce their behavior. To ensure beneficiaries receive their due, trustees are subject to a number of ancillary duties in support of the primary duties, including duties of openness and transparency, and duties of recordkeeping, accounting, and disclosure. In addition, a trustee has a duty to know, understand, and abide by the terms of the trust and relevant law. The trustee may be compensated and have expenses reimbursed, but otherwise must turn over all profits from the trust properties and neither endebt nor riskily speculate on the trust assets without the written, clear permission of all of the adult beneficiaries.
The main way that English law supports the existence of these is by understanding them as a form of trust. The association has no legal personality (ie the capacity to enter into legal relations in their own name). This contrasts with the approach taken in many civil law jurisdictions, like Spain[45] or France,[46] where civil or social associations are often accorded legal personhood. Thus, in England, the officers of an association (eg. its Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer) will be recognised as trustees and will hold the assets of the association on trust for the members of the association with the constitution of the association forming the basis of the rules governing the trust.[47][48]
The actual implementation of this law still remains to be seen however the requirements above are expressly extracted from The Prevention and Suppression of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Law of 2007–2018.
Living trusts, as opposed to testamentary (will) trusts, may help a trustor avoid probate.[55] Avoiding probate may save costs and maintain privacy and living trusts have become very popular.[56] Probate is potentially costly, and probate records are available to the public while distribution through a trust is private. Both living trusts and wills can also be used to plan for unforeseen circumstances such as incapacity or disability, by giving discretionary powers to the trustee or executor of the will.
"Dump That Trust Through The Window: Family Trust Tax Window"
Private and public trusts: A private trust has one or more particular individuals as its beneficiary. By contrast, a public trust (also called a charitable trust) has some charitable end as its beneficiary. To qualify as a charitable trust, the trust must have as its object certain purposes such as alleviating poverty, providing education, carrying out some religious purpose, etc. The permissible objects are generally set out in legislation, but objects not explicitly set out may also be an object of a charitable trust, by analogy. Charitable trusts are entitled to special treatment under the law of trusts and also the law of taxation.
Employee ownership: Shares in a company may be held by the trustee of an employee trust, often indefinitely, as part of the employee ownership of that company.[27]
Trusts have existed since Roman times and have become one of the most important innovations in property law.[5] Trust law has evolved through court rulings differently in different jurisdictions, so statements in this article are generalizations; understanding the jurisdiction-specific case law involved is tricky. Some U.S. states are adapting the Uniform Trust Code to codify and harmonize their trust laws, but state-specific variations still remain.
^ Ausness, Richard C. (2019). "A Mere Expectancy: What Rights Do Beneficiaries of a Revocable Trust Have Prior to the Death of the Settlor". Quinnipiac Probate Law Journal. 32 (4): 376.
^ Martinez, Michael J. (2007). Vault Career Guide to Private Wealth Management. New York, New York: Vault, Inc. p. 18. ISBN 9781581314489. OCLC 86069641.
^ Caraway, David (April 2015). "Testamentary Trusts". New York City Bar. Retrieved 14 December 2017.
to revoke or amend the terms of a trust or any trusts or powers arising wholly or partly under it
Discretionary trust: In a discretionary trust, certainty of object is satisfied if it can be said that there is a criterion which a person must satisfy to be a beneficiary (i.e., whether there is a 'class' of beneficiaries, which a person can be said to belong to). In that way, persons who satisfy that criterion (who are members of that class) can enforce the trust. Re Baden’s Deed Trusts; McPhail v Doulton
the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation or the promotion of religious or racial harmony or equality and diversity
HSharpe (18 August 2019). "Overview of Cyprus International Trust". The Cyprus Lawyer. Retrieved 20 August 2019.
Cyprus does not limit the duration of an international trust and it may be formed for an unspecified duration.[38]
Land trust: A private, nonprofit organization that, as all or part of its mission, actively works to conserve land by undertaking or assisting in land or conservation easement acquisition, or by its stewardship of such land or easements; or an agreement whereby one party (the trustee) agrees to hold ownership of a piece of real property for the benefit of another party (the beneficiary).
"Client's Guide to Understanding a Lawyer's Trust Account - Lawyers Mutual Insurance Company"
Offshore trust: Strictly speaking, an offshore trust is a trust which is resident in any jurisdiction other than that in which the settlor is resident. However, the term is more commonly used to describe a trust in one of the jurisdictions known as offshore financial centers or, colloquially, as tax havens. Offshore trusts are usually conceptually similar to onshore trusts in common law countries, but usually with legislative modifications to make them more commercially attractive by abolishing or modifying certain common law restrictions. By extension, "onshore trust" has come to mean any trust resident in a high-tax jurisdiction.
^ M. Bergervoet and D.S. Mansur (14 April 2012). "De Curaçaose trust in de partijk" (PDF). Weekblad voor Privaatrecht, Notariaat en Registratie (in Dutch).
The formalities required of a trust depend on the type of trust in question.
6.1.4.1Stamp Duty Commissioner for validating the creation of the Cyprus International Trust[39]
Testamentary trust (or 'Will Trust'): A trust created in an individual's will is called a testamentary trust. Because a will can become effective only upon death, a testamentary trust is generally created at or following the date of the settlor's death.
^ Moffat, Graham (2005). Trusts Law: Text and Materials (4th ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p. 18. ISBN 9781139445283.
Did Reform of Prudent Trust Investment Laws Change Trust Portfolio Allocation?
In the UK a bare or simple trust is one where the beneficiary has an immediate and absolute right to both the capital and income held in the trust. Bare trusts are commonly used to transfer assets to minors. Trustees hold the assets on trust until the beneficiary is 18 in England and Wales, or 16 in Scotland.[35]
'In Its Own Capacity' (IIOC): This term refers to the fact that the trustee is acting on its own behalf.
A trust is created by a settlor, who transfers title to some or all of their property to a trustee, who then holds title to that property in trust for the benefit of the beneficiaries.[3] The trust is governed by the terms under which it was created. In most jurisdictions, this requires a contractual trust agreement or deed. It is possible for a single individual to assume the role of more than one of these parties, and for multiple individuals to share a single role.[citation needed] For example, in a living trust it is common for the grantor to be both a trustee and a lifetime beneficiary while naming other contingent beneficiaries.[4]
In the US, a 'protective trust' is a type of trust that was devised for use in estate planning. (In another jurisdiction this might be thought of as one type of asset protection trust.) Often a person, A, wishes to leave property to another person B. A, however, fears that the property might be claimed by creditors before A dies, and that therefore B would receive none of it. A could establish a trust with B as the beneficiary, but then A would not be entitled to use of the property before they died. Protective trusts were developed as a solution to this situation. A would establish a trust with both A and B as beneficiaries, with the trustee instructed to allow A use of the property until they died, and thereafter to allow its use to B. The property is then safe from being claimed by A's creditors, at least so long as the debt was entered into after the trust's establishment. This use of trusts is similar to life estates and remainders, and is frequently used as an alternative to them.
Employee share ownership: Shares in a company may be held by the trustee of an employee trust as part of an employee share or share option plan.
If the beneficiaries are not Cyprus residents then any income and profit derived from Cypriot sources will be subject to tax.
"Types of Trust | South African Revenue Service". 12 February 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2022.
Improvement trust: can be set up by urban or local government to hold funds for the development or improvement of an area. The trust is often run by a committee, and can act similarly to a development agency, depending on the provisions of its charter.[33]
^ E-book: Trusts for Business Owners, by Peter Carruthers and Robert Velosa.
"Statutory Trust Entity Act (2009) (Last Amended 2013)". www.uniformlaws.org. Retrieved 24 January 2017.
Protector: A protector may be appointed in an express, inter vivos trust, as a person who has some control over the trustee—usually including a power to dismiss the trustee and appoint another. The legal status of a protector is the subject of some debate. No-one doubts that a trustee has fiduciary responsibilities. If a protector also has fiduciary responsibilities, then the courts—if asked by beneficiaries—could order him or her to act in the way the court decrees. However, a protector is unnecessary to the nature of a trust—many trusts can and do operate without one. Also, protectors are comparatively new, while the nature of trusts has been established over hundreds of years. It is therefore thought by some that protectors have fiduciary duties, and by others that they do not. The case law has not yet established this point.
The law includes specific confidentiality obligations over the trustee, the protector, enforcer or any other person to keep information and details of the trust confidential. This right is waived in the instances that law requires the disclosure of such information or if a judge before which a case is tried in issues a judgment to such effect. Nevertheless, with the changing times, public disclosure of trusts is required in Cyprus.[39] Such public disclosures are required:
Barber, B. (1983) The Logic and Limits of Trust. Rutgerts University Press.
^ Barbara Misztal, Trust in Modern Societies: The Search for the Bases of Social Order, Polity Press, ISBN 0-7456-1634-8
Barbara Misztal, Trust in Modern Societies: The Search for the Bases of Social Order, Polity Press, ISBN 0-7456-1634-8
"A social identity approach to trust: Interpersonal perception, group membership and trusting behaviour"
^ Pollitt, Michael (2002). "The economics of trust, norms and networks". Business Ethics: A European Review. 11 (2): 119–128. doi:10.1111/1467-8608.00266. ISSN 1467-8608. S2CID 153788522.
Sundar, S Shyam (January 2020). "Rise of Machine Agency: A Framework for Studying the Psychology of Human–AI Interaction (HAII)". Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication. 25 (1): 74–88. doi:10.1093/jcmc/zmz026.
Trust is important to economists for many reasons. Taking the "Market for Lemons" transaction popularized by George Akerlof as an example,[80] if a buyer of a car doesn't trust the seller to not sell a lemon, the transaction won't be entered into. The buyer won't enter into the transaction in the absence of trust, even if the product is of great value to the buyer. Trust can act as an economic lubricant, reducing the cost of transactions between parties, enabling new forms of cooperation and generally furthering business activities;[81][82] employment and prosperity. This observation [83] created a significant interest in considering trust as a form of social capital and has led research into closer understanding of the process of creation and distribution of such capital. It has been claimed that a higher level of social trust is positively correlated with economic development. Even though the original concept of 'high trust' and 'low trust' societies may not necessarily hold, it has been widely accepted and demonstrated that social trust benefits the economy [84] and that a low level of trust inhibits economic growth. The absence of trust restricts growth in employment, wages and profits, thus reducing the overall welfare of society.[85]
Bamberger, Walter (2010). "Interpersonal Trust – Attempt of a Definition". Scientific report, Technische Universität München. Retrieved 2011-08-16.
McAllister, Daniel (1995). "Affect-and cognition-based trust as foundations for interpersonal cooperation in organizations". Academy of Management Journal. 38 (1): 24–59. doi:10.5465/256727.
This page was last edited on 12 March 2023, at 19:26 (UTC).
^ Bolton, G. E., Katok, E., and Ockenfels, A. (2003) "How Effective are Electronic Reputation Mechanisms? An Experimental Investigation".
There are three different forms of trust commonly studied in psychology. Trust is being vulnerable to someone even when they are trustworthy. Trustworthiness are the characteristics or behaviors of one person that inspire positive expectations in another person. Trust propensity is the tendency to make oneself vulnerable to others in general.[31] Research suggests that this general tendency can change over time in response to key life events.[32] Once trust is lost, by obvious violation of one of these three determinants, it is very hard to regain. Thus there is clear asymmetry in the building versus destruction of trust.
Theoretical economical modelling[86] demonstrates that the optimum level of trust that a rational economic agent should exhibit in transactions is equal to the trustworthiness of the other party. Such a level of trust leads to an efficient market. Trusting less leads to the loss of economic opportunities, while trusting more leads to unnecessary vulnerabilities and potential exploitation. Economics is also interested in quantifying trust, usually in monetary terms. The level of correlation between an increase in profit margin[87] or a decrease in transactional costs can be used as indicators of the economic value of trust.
^ Lynn, Theo (2021). Data privacy and trust in cloud computing : building trust in the cloud through assurance and accountability. Palgrave Studies in Digital Business & Enabling Technologies. Open. Cham: Springer. p. 20. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-54660-1. ISBN 978-3-030-54659-5. OCLC 1202743216. S2CID 242965934. Trust is generally defined as a willingness to accept vulnerability based on positive expectation of another party.
^ a b McLeod, Carolyn (2017).Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Retrieved 29 October 2017 – via Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
^ a b c .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Schilke, Oliver; Reimann, Martin; Cook, Karen S. (2021). "Trust in Social Relations". Annual Review of Sociology. 47 (1): 239–259. doi:10.1146/annurev-soc-082120-082850. ISSN 0360-0572. S2CID 231685149.
Rempel, John K.; Ross, Michael; Holmes, John G. (2001). "Trust and communicated attributions in close relationships". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 81 (1): 57–64. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.81.1.57. ISSN 1939-1315. PMID 11474726.
Nooteboom, B. (2017). Trust: Forms, Foundations, Functions, Failures and Figures. Edward Elgar Publishing. ISBN 9781781950883. Retrieved 29 October 2017 – via Google Books.
Brewer, M.B. (1999). "The psychology of prejudice: Ingroup love or outgroup hate?". Journal of Social Issues. 55 (3): 429–444. doi:10.1111/0022-4537.00126.
Simon, Herbert Alexander (1997). Models of Bounded Rationality: Empirically grounded economic reason. MIT Press. ISBN 978-0-262-19372-6.
McEvoy, Rachel; Ballini, Luciana; Maltoni, Susanna; O’Donnell, Catherine A.; Mair, Frances S.; MacFarlane, Anne (2014-01-02). "A qualitative systematic review of studies using the normalization process theory to research implementation processes". Implementation Science. 9 (1): 2. doi:10.1186/1748-5908-9-2. ISSN 1748-5908. PMC 3905960. PMID 24383661.
Egger, F. N. "From Interactions to Transactions: Designing the Trust Experience for Business-to-Consumer Electronic Commerce". PhD Thesis, Eindhoven University of Technology (The Netherlands).
In the context of sexual trust, Riki Robbins[34] describes four stages. These consist of perfect trust, damaged trust, devastated trust and restored trust.[35]
Lisa M. DeBruine (7 July 2002). "Facial resemblance enhances trust". Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. Series B: Biological Sciences. 269 (1498): 1307–1312. doi:10.1098/rspb.2002.2034. PMC 1691034. PMID 12079651.
Banks, Jaime (2021-01-28). "Of like mind: The (mostly) similar mentalizing of robots and humans". Technology, Mind, and Behavior. 1 (2). doi:10.1037/tmb0000025.
^ Brinig, Margaret F. (2011). "Belonging and Trust: Divorce and Social Capital". SSRN Electronic Journal. doi:10.2139/ssrn.1767431. ISSN 1556-5068.
"Forms and Frames: Mind, Morality, and Trust in Robots across Prototypical Interactions"
Keser, C. (2003) "Experimental games for the design of reputation management systems". IBM Systems J., vol. 42, no. 3.
Trust in neighbors considers the relationships between individuals who share a common residential environment.
Bachmann, Reinhard and Zaheer, Akbar (eds) (2006). Handbook of Trust Research. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.[ISBN missing]
^ Child Development Institute Parenting Today. "Stages of Social-Emotional Development In Children and Teenagers". Childdevelopmentinfo.com. Archived from the original on October 2, 2011. Retrieved 2013-01-04.
Castelfranchi, C., Falcone, R. (2000). "Trust Is Much More than Subjective Probability: Mental Components and Sources of Trust". Proc. of the 33rd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. Volume 6.
^ Ed Gerck, Trust Points, Digital Certificates: Applied Internet Security by J. Feghhi, J. Feghhi and P. Williams, Addison-Wesley, ISBN 0-201-30980-7, 1998.
Stony Brook University weekly seminars on the issue of trust in the personal, religious, social, and scientific realms
"Causal attributions of married couples: When do they search for causes? What do they conclude when they do?"
Chang, E., Dillion, T., Hussain, F. K. (2006) Trust and Reputation for Service-Oriented Environments: Technologies for Building Business Intelligence and Consumer Confidence. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Collins, Nancy L. (1996). "Working models of attachment: Implications for explanation, emotion, and behavior". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 71 (4): 810–832. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.71.4.810. ISSN 1939-1315. PMID 8888604.
Airiau, Stéphane; Sen, Sandip (2006-05-08). "Learning to commit in repeated games". Proceedings of the fifth international joint conference on Autonomous agents and multiagent systems. AAMAS '06. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery: 1263–1265. doi:10.1145/1160633.1160861. ISBN 978-1-59593-303-4.
Sviatoslav contended that society needs trust because it increasingly finds itself operating at the edge between confidence in what is known from everyday experience and contingency of new possibilities. Without trust, one should always consider all contingent possibilities, leading to paralysis by analysis.[16] In this sense, trust acts as a decisional heuristic, allowing the decision maker to overcome bounded rationality[17] and process what would otherwise be an excessively complex situation. Trust can be seen as a bet on one of many contingent futures, specifically, the one that appears to deliver the greatest benefits. Once the bet is decided (i.e. trust is granted), the trustor suspends his or her disbelief, and the possibility of a negative course of action is not considered at all. Hence trust acts as a reducing agent of social complexity, allowing for cooperation.[18]
Berg, Joyce; Dickhaut, John; McCabe, Kevin (1995-07-01). "Trust, Reciprocity, and Social History". Games and Economic Behavior. 10 (1): 122–142. doi:10.1006/game.1995.1027. ISSN 0899-8256.
Riki Robbins, Betrayed!: How You Can Restore Sexual Trust and Rebuild Your Life, Adams Media Corporation, ISBN 1-55850-848-1
McLeod, Carolyn (2017).Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Retrieved 29 October 2017 – via Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
^ Gambetta, Diego (2000). "Can We Trust Trust?". Trust: Making and Breaking Cooperative Relations. Department of Sociology, University of Oxford: 213–237.
^ Baier, Annette (1986). "Trust and Antitrust". Ethics. 96 (2): 231–260. doi:10.1086/292745. JSTOR 2381376. S2CID 159454549.
^ a b c Dinesen, Peter Thisted; Schaeffer, Merlin; Sønderskov, Kim Mannemar (2020). "Ethnic Diversity and Social Trust: A Narrative and Meta-Analytical Review". Annual Review of Political Science. 23: 441–465. doi:10.1146/annurev-polisci-052918-020708.
In psychology, trust is believing that the person who is trusted will do what is expected. According to the psychoanalyst Erik Erikson, development of basic trust is the first state of psychosocial development occurring, or failing, during the first two years of life. Success results in feelings of security and optimism, while failure leads towards an orientation of insecurity and mistrust[26] possibly resulting in attachment disorders.[27] A person's dispositional tendency to trust others can be considered a personality trait and as such is one of the strongest predictors of subjective well-being.[28] Trust increases subjective well-being because it enhances the quality of one's interpersonal relationships; happy people are skilled at fostering good relationships.[29]
^ DeNeve, Kristina M. (1999). "Happy as an Extraverted Clam? The Role of Personality for Subjective Well-Being". Current Directions in Psychological Science. 8 (5): 141–144. doi:10.1111/1467-8721.00033. S2CID 142992658.
Baier, Annette (1986). "Trust and Antitrust". Ethics. 96 (2): 231–260. doi:10.1086/292745. JSTOR 2381376. S2CID 159454549.
Interpersonal trust literature[41] suggests that trust-diagnostic situations provide a means by which individuals can gauge or alter the level of trust in relationships. Trust-diagnostic situations refer to in trust or "strain-test"[44] situations which test partners' ability to act in the best interests of the other individual or the relationship, simultaneously rejecting that option which is in one's personal self-interest. Trust-diagnostic situations occur throughout the course of everyday life, though can be created by individuals wanting to test the current level of trust in a relationship.[41]
Banks, Jaime; Koban, Kevin; Chauveau, Philippe (2021-04-15). "Forms and Frames: Mind, Morality, and Trust in Robots across Prototypical Interactions". Human-Machine Communication. 2 (1): 81–103. doi:10.30658/hmc.2.4.
Trust in economics is treated as an explanation for a difference between actual human behavior and the one that can be explained by the individual desire to maximize one's utility. In economic terms, trust can provide an explanation of a difference between Nash equilibrium and the observed equilibrium. Such an approach can be applied to individuals as well as societies.
^ Ed Gerck (1998-01-23). "Definition of trust". Mcwg.org. Retrieved 2013-01-04.
^ Searle, J.R. (1995). The Construction of Social Reality. The Free Press
^ a b Faulkner, Paul (2011). Knowledge on Trust. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199589784.001.0001. ISBN 978-0-19-958978-4.
^ Fukuyama, F. (1996) Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity, Touchstone Books.
Bolton, G. E., Katok, E., and Ockenfels, A. (2003) "How Effective are Electronic Reputation Mechanisms? An Experimental Investigation".
^ Mollering, G.. "The Trust/Control Duality: An Integrative Perspective on Positive Expectations of Others". In: Int. Sociology, September 2005, Vol. 20(3): 283–305.
^ Airiau, Stéphane; Sen, Sandip (2006-05-08). "Learning to commit in repeated games". Proceedings of the fifth international joint conference on Autonomous agents and multiagent systems. AAMAS '06. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery: 1263–1265. doi:10.1145/1160633.1160861. ISBN 978-1-59593-303-4.
Intravia, J.; Stewart, E.; Warren, P.; Wolff, K. (2016). "Neighborhood disorder and generalized trust: A multilevel mediation examination of social mechanisms". Journal of Criminal Justice. 46 (1): 148–158. doi:10.1016/j.jcrimjus.2016.05.003.
^ Jonathan Turner (2000). On the Origins of Human Emotions: A Sociological Inquiry Into the Evolution of Human Affect. Stanford University Press. p. 76. ISBN 978-0-8047-6436-0.
^ Fulmer, C. Ashley; Gelfand, Michele J. (2012-07-01). "At What Level (and in Whom) We Trust: Trust Across Multiple Organizational Levels". Journal of Management. 38 (4): 1167–1230. doi:10.1177/0149206312439327. ISSN 0149-2063. S2CID 5506486.
^ a b c d Platow, M. J.; Foddy, M.; Yamagishi, T.; Lim, L.; Chow, A. (2012). "Two experimental tests of trust in in-group strangers: The moderating role of common knowledge of group membership". European Journal of Social Psychology. 42: 30–35. doi:10.1002/ejsp.852.
^ Morgan, Robert; Hunt, S. (July 1994). "The Commitment-Trust Theory of Relationship Marketing". The Journal of Marketing. 58 (3): 20–38. doi:10.2307/1252308. JSTOR 1252308.
Trust: Making and Breaking Cooperative Relations, edited by Diego Gambetta
Increasingly in recent times, research has been conducted regarding the notion of trust and its social implications:
^ Fonagy, Peter (2010). Attachment Theory and Psychoanalysis. Other Press Professional, ISBN 1590514602
^ Banks, Jaime (2020-09-10). "Good Robots, Bad Robots: Morally Valenced Behavior Effects on Perceived Mind, Morality, and Trust". International Journal of Social Robotics. 13 (8): 2021–2038. doi:10.1007/s12369-020-00692-3.
Poppo, Laura; Zenger, Todd (2002). "Do formal contracts and relational governance function as substitutes or complements?". Strategic Management Journal. 23 (8): 707–725. doi:10.1002/smj.249. ISSN 0143-2095.
As the trustor is uncertain about the outcome of the trustee's actions, the trustor can only develop and evaluate expectations. Such expectations are formed with a view to the motivations of the trustee, dependent on their characteristics, the situation, and their interaction.[5] The uncertainty stems from the risk of failure or harm to the trustor if the trustee does not behave as desired.
Lankton, Nancy; McKnight, Harrison; Tripp, John (2015). "Technology, Humanness, and Trust: Rethinking Trust in Technology". Journal of the Association for Information Systems. 16 (10): 880–918. doi:10.17705/1jais.00411. ISSN 1536-9323. S2CID 45062514.
Human-Animal Trust as an Analog for Human-Robot Trust: A Review of Current Evidence
There is considerable empirical activity related to the social identity approach. Allocator studies have frequently been employed to understand group-based trust in strangers.[38][39][65][66] They may be operationalized as unilateral or bilateral relationships of exchange. General social categories such as university affiliation, course majors, and even ad-hoc groups have been used to distinguish between in-group and out-group members. In unilateral studies of trust, the participant is asked to choose between envelopes containing money that was previously allocated by an in-group or out-group member.[65] They have no prior or future opportunities for interaction, simulating Brewer's notion that group membership was sufficient in bringing about group-based trust and hence cooperation.[67] Participants could expect an amount ranging from nothing to the maximum value an allocator could give out. Bilateral studies of trust have employed an investment game devised by Berg and colleagues where individuals choose to give a portion or none of their money to another.[68] Any amount given would be tripled and the receiver would then decide whether they would return the favor by giving money back to the sender. Trusting behavior on the part of the sender and the eventual trustworthiness of the receiver was exemplified through the giving of money.[40][65]
"Media, Biotechnology, and Trust: What Drives Citizens to Support Biotechnology"
^ Oma, Kristin Armstrong (2010-06-01). "Between trust and domination: social contracts between humans and animals". World Archaeology. 42 (2): 175–187. doi:10.1080/00438241003672724. S2CID 219608475.
Pollitt, Michael (2002). "The economics of trust, norms and networks". Business Ethics: A European Review. 11 (2): 119–128. doi:10.1111/1467-8608.00266. ISSN 1467-8608. S2CID 153788522.
"Robert Plutchik's Psychoevolutionary Theory of Basic Emotions" (PDF). Adliterate.com. Retrieved 2017-06-05.
^ Guo, Shiau-Ling; Lumineau, Fabrice; Lewicki, Roy J. (2017-02-15). "Revisiting the Foundations of Organizational Distrust". Foundations and Trends in Management. 1 (1): 1–88. doi:10.1561/3400000001. ISSN 2475-6946.
Brinig, Margaret F. (2011). "Belonging and Trust: Divorce and Social Capital". SSRN Electronic Journal. doi:10.2139/ssrn.1767431. ISSN 1556-5068.
"trust." Online Etymology Dictionary. Douglas Harper, Historian. 25 May. 2013.
Fonagy, Peter (2010). Attachment Theory and Psychoanalysis. Other Press Professional, ISBN 1590514602
^ DeBruine, Lisa (3 November 2005). "Trustworthy but not lust-worthy: context-specific effects of facial resemblance". Proceedings of the Royal Society B. 272 (1566): 919–22. doi:10.1098/rspb.2004.3003. JSTOR 30047623. PMC 1564091. PMID 16024346.
^ a b Mayer, R.C.; Davis, J.H.; Schoorman, F.D. (1995). "An integrative model of organizational trust". Academy of Management Review. 20 (3): 709–734. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.457.8429. doi:10.5465/amr.1995.9508080335.
Giddens, A. (1984). The Constitution of Society: Outline of the Theory of Structuration; Polity Press, Cambridge
Trust is the willingness of one party (the trustor) to become vulnerable to another party (the trustee) on the presumption that the trustee will act in ways that benefit the trustor.[1][2][3][4] In addition, the trustor does not have control over the actions of the trustee.[1] Scholars distinguish between generalized trust (also known as social trust), which is the extension of trust to a relatively large circle of unfamiliar others, and particularized trust, which is contingent on a specific situation or a specific relationship.[1]
Since the mid-1990s, a substantial body of organizational research has fallen into one of two distinct but nonexclusive paradigms of trust research.[106] The first paradigm distinguishes between two major dimensions of trust. Trust in another can be characterized as cognition-based trust (i.e., based on rational calculation) and affect-based trust (i.e., based on emotional attachment).[107] For example, trust in an auto repair shop could come in the form of an assessment of the capabilities of the shop to do a good job repairing one's car (cognition-based trust) or having a longstanding relationship with the shop's owner (affect-based trust). The second paradigm distinguishes between the trustworthiness factors that give rise to trust (i.e., one's perceived ability, benevolence, and integrity) and trust itself.[3] Together, these paradigms are useful for predicting how different dimensions of trust form in organizations via the demonstration of various trustworthiness attributes.[106]
^ Barber, B. (1983) The Logic and Limits of Trust. Rutgerts University Press.
^ Kosfeld, M.; Heinrichs, M.; Zak, P. J.; Fischbacher, U.; Fehr, E. (2005). "Oxytocin increases trust in humans". Nature. 435 (7042): 673–676. Bibcode:2005Natur.435..673K. doi:10.1038/nature03701. PMID 15931222. S2CID 1234727.
^ Brewer, M.B. (1999). "The psychology of prejudice: Ingroup love or outgroup hate?". Journal of Social Issues. 55 (3): 429–444. doi:10.1111/0022-4537.00126.
On the Origins of Human Emotions: A Sociological Inquiry Into the Evolution of Human Affect
McKnight, D.H.; Chervany, N.L. (2001-01-06). "Conceptualizing trust: a typology and e-commerce customer relationships model". Proceedings of the 34th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences: 10 pp.–. doi:10.1109/HICSS.2001.927053.
Dalkir, Kimiz (2017). Knowledge Management in Theory and Practice. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262036870.
"Impersonal trust: The development of the construct and the scale"
^ "Robert Plutchik's Psychoevolutionary Theory of Basic Emotions" (PDF). Adliterate.com. Retrieved 2017-06-05.
King, Valarie (August 2002). "Parental Divorce and Interpersonal Trust in Adult Offspring". Journal of Marriage and Family. 64 (3): 642–656. doi:10.1111/j.1741-3737.2002.00642.x. JSTOR 3599931.
^ Zheng, J.; Roehrich, J.K.; Lewis, M.A. (2008). "The dynamics of contractual and relational governance: Evidence from long-term public-private procurement arrangements". Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management. 14 (1): 43–54. doi:10.1016/j.pursup.2008.01.004. S2CID 207472262.
^ Van Der Werff, L.; Freeney, Y.; Lance, C. E.; Buckley, F. (2019). "Frontiersin". Frontiers in Psychology. 10: 2490. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2019.02490. PMC 6848461. PMID 31749749.
In-group trust is that which is placed in members of one's own group.
^ Coleman, J. (1990). Foundations of Social Theory. The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press.
^ Riki Robbins, Betrayed!: How You Can Restore Sexual Trust and Rebuild Your Life, Adams Media Corporation, ISBN 1-55850-848-1
World Database of Trust Harvey S. James, Jr., Ph.D. (Updated August 2007) A variety of definitions of trust are collected and listed.
Foddy, M.; Platow, M.J.; Yamagishi, T. (2009). "Group-based trust in strangers: The role of stereotypes and expectations". Psychological Science. 20 (4): 419–422. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9280.2009.02312.x. PMID 19399956. S2CID 29922902.
^ Zak, Paul; Knack, Stephen (2001). "Trust and Growth". Economic Journal. 111 (470): 295–321. doi:10.1111/1468-0297.00609.
The review's meta-analysis of 87 studies showed a consistent, though modest, negative relationship between ethnic diversity and social trust. Ethnic diversity has the strongest negative impact on neighbor trust, in-group trust, and generalized trust. It did not appear to have a significant impact on out-group trust. The limited size of the impact means apocalyptic claims about it are exaggerated.[24]
Zheng, J.; Roehrich, J.K.; Lewis, M.A. (2008). "The dynamics of contractual and relational governance: Evidence from long-term public-private procurement arrangements". Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management. 14 (1): 43–54. doi:10.1016/j.pursup.2008.01.004. S2CID 207472262.
Can contact reduce the negative association between ethnic diversity and social trust?
Shallcross, Sandra L.; Simpson, Jeffry A. (2012). "Trust and responsiveness in strain-test situations: A dyadic perspective". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 102 (5): 1031–1044. doi:10.1037/a0026829. ISSN 1939-1315. PMID 22250662.
Zak, P. J., and Knack, S. (2001) "Trust and growth". Economic Journal, 111: 295–321.
^ Keser, C. (2003) "Experimental games for the design of reputation management systems". IBM Systems J., vol. 42, no. 3.
Ed Gerck, Trust Points, Digital Certificates: Applied Internet Security by J. Feghhi, J. Feghhi and P. Williams, Addison-Wesley, ISBN 0-201-30980-7, 1998.
^ Egger, F. N. "From Interactions to Transactions: Designing the Trust Experience for Business-to-Consumer Electronic Commerce". PhD Thesis, Eindhoven University of Technology (The Netherlands).
The definition of trust as a belief in something or a confident expectation about something[78] eliminates the notion of risk, because it does not include whether the expectation or belief is favorable or unfavorable. For example, to have an expectation of a friend arriving to dinner late because she has habitually arrived late for the last fifteen years, is a confident expectation (whether or not we agree with her annoying late arrivals). The trust is not about what we wish for, but rather it is in the consistency of the data of our habits. As a result, there is no risk or sense of betrayal because the data now exists as collective knowledge. Faulkner[75] contrasts such predictive trust with aforementioned affective trust, proposing predictive trust may only warrant disappointment as a consequence of an inaccurate prediction, not betrayal.
^ a b Dalkir, Kimiz (2017). Knowledge Management in Theory and Practice. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262036870.
Timmons-Mitchell, Jane; Gardner, Sondra (1991). "Treating sexual victimization: Developing trust-based relating in the mother-daughter dyad". Psychotherapy: Theory, Research, Practice, Training. American Psychological Association. 28 (2): 333–338. doi:10.1037/0033-3204.28.2.333. ISSN 1939-1536.
^ Braynov, S.; Sandholm, T. (2002). "Contracting With Uncertain Level Of Trust". Computational Intelligence. 18 (4): 501–514. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.70.8413. doi:10.1111/1467-8640.00200. S2CID 33473191.
Guth, W.; Levati, M.V.; Ploner, M. (2006). "Social identity and trust – An experimental investigation". The Journal of Socio-Economics. 37 (4): 1293–1308. doi:10.1016/j.socec.2006.12.080. S2CID 142810413.
^ Resnick, P."The value of reputation on eBay: a controlled experiment". Experimental Economics, volume 9, Issue 2, Jun 2006, pp. 79–101.
Kosfeld, M.; Heinrichs, M.; Zak, P. J.; Fischbacher, U.; Fehr, E. (2005). "Oxytocin increases trust in humans". Nature. 435 (7042): 673–676. Bibcode:2005Natur.435..673K. doi:10.1038/nature03701. PMID 15931222. S2CID 1234727.
DeNeve, Kristina M. (1999). "Happy as an Extraverted Clam? The Role of Personality for Subjective Well-Being". Current Directions in Psychological Science. 8 (5): 141–144. doi:10.1111/1467-8721.00033. S2CID 142992658.
Berg, J., Dickhaut, J., & McCabe, K. (1995). "Trust, reciprocity, and social history". Games and Economic Behaviour, 10, 122–142
Bicchieri, Cristina, Duffy, John and Tolle, Gil (2004). "Trust among strangers", Philosophy of Science 71: 1–34.
Gambetta, Diego (2000). "Can We Trust Trust?". Trust: Making and Breaking Cooperative Relations. Department of Sociology, University of Oxford: 213–237.
"Working models of attachment: Implications for explanation, emotion, and behavior"
Marková, I., Linell, P & Gillespie, A. (2007). "Trust and distrust in society". In Marková, I. and Gillespie, A. (Eds.) Trust and distrust: Socio-cultural perspectives. Greenwich, CT: Information Age Publishing, Inc.
^ Giddens, A. (1984). The Constitution of Society: Outline of the Theory of Structuration; Polity Press, Cambridge
Karen Jones proposed that there is an emotional aspect to trust, an element of optimism[74] that the trustee will do the right thing by the trustor, also described as affective trust.[75] Though, in some circumstances, we trust others even without the optimistic expectation, instead hoping the mere recognition that the person is being trusted in itself will prompt the favorable action. This is known as therapeutic trust[76][77] and gives both the trustee a reason to be trustworthy, and the trustor a reason to believe they are trustworthy. In these situations, the sense of betrayal upon violation of trust is commonly warranted.
Gillespie, A. (2007). "The intersubjective dynamics of trust, distrust and manipulation". In Markova and Gillespie (Eds), Trust & Distrust: Socio-cultural Perspectives. Charlotte, NC: Info Age.
Jonathan Turner (2000). On the Origins of Human Emotions: A Sociological Inquiry Into the Evolution of Human Affect. Stanford University Press. p. 76. ISBN 978-0-8047-6436-0.
Zak, Paul; Knack, Stephen (2001). "Trust and Growth". Economic Journal. 111 (470): 295–321. doi:10.1111/1468-0297.00609.
Lewicki, Roy; Brinsfield, Chad (2011). "Trust as a heuristic". Framing Matters: Perspectives on Negotiation Research and Practice in Communication. Peter Lang Publishing.
Fehr, E., Kirchsteiger, G., and Riedl, A.. "Does Fairness Prevent Market Clearing? An Experimental Investigation". Quarterly Journal of Economics 108 (May 1993), pp. 437–460.
Horsburgh, H. J. N. (1960-10-01). "The Ethics of Trust". The Philosophical Quarterly. 10 (41): 343–354. doi:10.2307/2216409. ISSN 0031-8094. JSTOR 2216409.
Schilke, Oliver; Reimann, Martin; Cook, Karen S. (2021). "Trust in Social Relations". Annual Review of Sociology. 47(1).
^ Lewicki, Roy J.; McAllister, Daniel J.; Bies, Robert J. (1998). "Trust and Distrust: New Relationships and Realities". Academy of Management Review. 23 (3): 438–458. doi:10.2307/259288. ISSN 0363-7425. JSTOR 259288.
Mayer, R.C.; Davis, J.H.; Schoorman, F.D. (1995). "An integrative model of organizational trust". Academy of Management Review. 20 (3): 709–734. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.457.8429. doi:10.5465/amr.1995.9508080335.
Kelton, Kari; Fleischmann, Kenneth R. & Wallace, William A. (2008). "Trust in Digital Information". Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, 59(3):363–374.
^ McAllister, Daniel (1995). "Affect-and cognition-based trust as foundations for interpersonal cooperation in organizations". Academy of Management Journal. 38 (1): 24–59. doi:10.5465/256727.
^ a b c d e f g Tanis, M.; Postmes, T. (2005). "A social identity approach to trust: Interpersonal perception, group membership and trusting behaviour" (PDF). European Journal of Social Psychology. 35 (3): 413–424. doi:10.1002/ejsp.256. S2CID 15706516.
^ Nooteboom, B. (2017). Trust: Forms, Foundations, Functions, Failures and Figures. Edward Elgar Publishing. ISBN 9781781950883. Retrieved 29 October 2017 – via Google Books.
Biel, Anders; Eek, Daniel; Gärling, Tommy; Gustafsson, Mathias, eds. (2008). New issues and paradigms in research on social dilemmas. New York, N.Y.: Springer. ISBN 978-0-387-72596-3. OCLC 233971331.
Fukuyama, F. (1996) Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity, Touchstone Books.
Pettit, Philip (1995). "The Cunning of Trust". Philosophy & Public Affairs. 24 (3): 202–225. doi:10.1111/j.1088-4963.1995.tb00029.x. ISSN 0048-3915. JSTOR 2961900.
^ a b c Guth, W.; Levati, M.V.; Ploner, M. (2006). "Social identity and trust – An experimental investigation". The Journal of Socio-Economics. 37 (4): 1293–1308. doi:10.1016/j.socec.2006.12.080. S2CID 142810413.
Tomlinson, Edward; Schnackenberg, Andrew; Dawley, David; Ash, Steven (2020). "Revisiting the trustworthiness-trust relationship: Exploring the differential predictors of cognition- and affect-based trust". Journal of Organizational Behavior. 41 (6): 535–550. doi:10.1002/job.2448. S2CID 218955149.
Faulkner, Paul (2011). Knowledge on Trust. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199589784.001.0001. ISBN 978-0-19-958978-4.
^ Castelfranchi, C., Falcone, R. (2000). "Trust Is Much More than Subjective Probability: Mental Components and Sources of Trust". Proc. of the 33rd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. Volume 6.
Atifa Athar; M. Saleem Khan; Khalil Ahmed; Aiesha Ahmed; Nida Anwar (June 2011). "A Fuzzy Inference System for Synergy Estimation of Simultaneous Emotion Dynamics in Agents". International Journal of Scientific & Engineering Research. 2 (6).
^ Shallcross, Sandra L.; Simpson, Jeffry A. (2012). "Trust and responsiveness in strain-test situations: A dyadic perspective". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 102 (5): 1031–1044. doi:10.1037/a0026829. ISSN 1939-1315. PMID 22250662.
^ Chang, E., Dillion, T., Hussain, F. K. (2006) Trust and Reputation for Service-Oriented Environments: Technologies for Building Business Intelligence and Consumer Confidence. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
^ Poppo, Laura; Zenger, Todd (2002). "Do formal contracts and relational governance function as substitutes or complements?". Strategic Management Journal. 23 (8): 707–725. doi:10.1002/smj.249. ISSN 0143-2095.
^ Billings, Deborah R.; Schaefer, Kristin E.; Chen, Jessie Y.; Kocsis, Vivien; Barrera, Maria; Cook, Jacquelyn; Ferrer, Michelle; Hancock, Peter A. (2012-03-01), Human-Animal Trust as an Analog for Human-Robot Trust: A Review of Current Evidence, University of Central Florida Orlando – via Defense Technical Information Center
Braynov, S.; Sandholm, T. (2002). "Contracting With Uncertain Level Of Trust". Computational Intelligence. 18 (4): 501–514. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.70.8413. doi:10.1111/1467-8640.00200. S2CID 33473191.
Paulo Verissimo, Miguel Correia, Nuno F. Neves, Paulo Sousa. "Intrusion-Resilient Middleware Design and Validation". In Annals of Emerging Research in Information Assurance, Security and Privacy Services, H. Raghav Rao and Shambhu Upadhyaya (eds.), Elsevier, to appear. 2008.
^ Bachmann, R. (2001). "Trust, Power and Control in Transorganizational Relations". Organization Studies. 22 (2): 337–365. doi:10.1177/0170840601222007. S2CID 5657206.
In the social sciences, the subtleties of trust are a subject of ongoing research. In sociology and psychology, the degree to which one party trusts another is a measure of belief in the honesty, fairness, or benevolence of another party. The term "confidence" is more appropriate for a belief in the competence of the other party. A failure in trust may be forgiven more easily if it is interpreted as a failure of competence rather than a lack of benevolence or honesty.[6] In economics, trust is often conceptualized as reliability in transactions. In all cases, trust is a heuristic decision rule, allowing the human to deal with complexities that would require unrealistic effort in rational reasoning.[7]
Banks, Jaime (2020-09-10). "Good Robots, Bad Robots: Morally Valenced Behavior Effects on Perceived Mind, Morality, and Trust". International Journal of Social Robotics. 13 (8): 2021–2038. doi:10.1007/s12369-020-00692-3.
^ a b Banks, Jaime; Koban, Kevin; Chauveau, Philippe (2021-04-15). "Forms and Frames: Mind, Morality, and Trust in Robots across Prototypical Interactions". Human-Machine Communication. 2 (1): 81–103. doi:10.30658/hmc.2.4.
^ Zak, P. J., and Knack, S. (2001) "Trust and growth". Economic Journal, 111: 295–321.
^ Bamberger, Walter (2010). "Interpersonal Trust – Attempt of a Definition". Scientific report, Technische Universität München. Retrieved 2011-08-16.
Sociology claims trust is one of several social constructs; an element of the social reality.[11] Other constructs frequently discussed together with trust include control, confidence, risk, meaning and power. Trust is naturally attributable to relationships between social actors, both individuals and groups (social systems). Sociology is concerned with the position and role of trust in social systems. Interest in trust has grown significantly since the early eighties, from the early works of Luhmann,[12] Barber[13] and Giddens[14] (see[15] for a more detailed overview). This growth of interest in trust has been stimulated by ongoing changes in society, specifically known as late modernity and post-modernity.
Importantly, trust may be placed in non-human agents in addition to human targets. For instance, people may trust in animals,[51] in the scientific process,[52] and in social machines. Trust helps create a social contract that allows humans and domestic animals to live together.[53]Trust in the scientific process is associated with increased trust in innovations such as biotechnology.[52] When it comes to trust in social machines, people are more willing to trust intelligent machines with humanoid morphologies[54] and female cues[55] and when they are focused on tasks (versus socialization)[56] and when they behave in morally good ways.[57][56] More generally, they may be trusted as a function of the machine heuristic—the mental shortcut assuming that machines are less biased, more accurate, and more reliable than are humans[58] such that people may sometimes trust a robot more than a human.[59]
In her book,[33] Barbara Misztal attempts to combine all notions of trust together. She describes three basic things that trust does in the lives of people: it makes social life predictable, it creates a sense of community, and it makes it easier for people to work together.
Searle, J.R. (1995). The Construction of Social Reality. The Free Press
Management and organization science scholars have also paid attention to how trust is influenced by contracts and how trust interacts with formal mechanisms.[103] Parallel to the very large interest in trust, scholars in management and related disciplines have made the case for the importance of distrust as a related but distinct construct.[104][105]
Garcia-Retamero, Rocio; Müller, Stephanie M.; Rousseau, David L. (2012-03-13). "The Impact of Value Similarity and Power on the Perception of Threat". Political Psychology. 33 (2): 179–193. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9221.2012.00869.x. ISSN 0162-895X.
"A qualitative systematic review of studies using the normalization process theory to research implementation processes"
^ a b c Simpson, Jeffry A. (2016-06-23). "Psychological Foundations of Trust". Current Directions in Psychological Science. 16 (5): 264–268. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8721.2007.00517.x. ISSN 1467-8721. S2CID 45119866.
^ Horsburgh, H. J. N. (1960-10-01). "The Ethics of Trust". The Philosophical Quarterly. 10 (41): 343–354. doi:10.2307/2216409. ISSN 0031-8094. JSTOR 2216409.
"The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism"
^ Holtzworth-Munroe, Amy; Jacobson, Neil S. (1985). "Causal attributions of married couples: When do they search for causes? What do they conclude when they do?". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 48 (6): 1398–1412. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.48.6.1398. ISSN 1939-1315. PMID 4020604.
^ McEvoy, Rachel; Ballini, Luciana; Maltoni, Susanna; O’Donnell, Catherine A.; Mair, Frances S.; MacFarlane, Anne (2014-01-02). "A qualitative systematic review of studies using the normalization process theory to research implementation processes". Implementation Science. 9 (1): 2. doi:10.1186/1748-5908-9-2. ISSN 1748-5908. PMC 3905960. PMID 24383661.
^ "trust." Online Etymology Dictionary. Douglas Harper, Historian. 25 May. 2013.
Herreros, Francisco (2023). "The State and Trust". Annual Review of Political Science 26 (1)
"Using Normalization Process Theory in feasibility studies and process evaluations of complex healthcare interventions: a systematic review"
^ McKnight, D.H.; Chervany, N.L. (2001-01-06). "Conceptualizing trust: a typology and e-commerce customer relationships model". Proceedings of the 34th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences: 10 pp.–. doi:10.1109/HICSS.2001.927053.
Jones, Karen (2005), "Trust as an Affective Attitude", Personal Virtues, London: Palgrave Macmillan UK, pp. 253–279, doi:10.1007/978-0-230-20409-6_11, ISBN 978-1-4039-9455-4, retrieved 2020-11-01
Lewicki, Roy J.; McAllister, Daniel J.; Bies, Robert J. (1998). "Trust and Distrust: New Relationships and Realities". Academy of Management Review. 23 (3): 438–458. doi:10.2307/259288. ISSN 0363-7425. JSTOR 259288.
Distrusting individuals may not always engage in opportunities for trusting relationships. Someone who was subject to an abusive childhood may have been deprived of any evidence that trust is warranted in future interpersonal relationships.[5] An important key to treating sexual victimization of a child is the rebuilding of trust between parent and child. Failure for the adults to validate the sexual abuse contributes to the child's difficulty towards trusting self and others.[48] Moreover, trust can often be affected by the erosion of a marriage.[49] Children of divorce do not exhibit less trust in mothers, partners, spouses, friends, and associates than their peers of intact families. The impact of parental divorce is limited to trust in the father.[50]
Vanhala, Mika; Puumalainen, Kaisu; Blomqvist, Kirsimarja (2011). "Impersonal trust: The development of the construct and the scale". Personnel Review. 40: 485–513. doi:10.1108/00483481111133354.
^ a b Rempel, John K.; Ross, Michael; Holmes, John G. (2001). "Trust and communicated attributions in close relationships". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 81 (1): 57–64. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.81.1.57. ISSN 1939-1315. PMID 11474726.
^ Sztompka, P. (1999). Trust: A Sociological Theory. Cambridge University Press.
Colquitt, Jason A.; Scott, Brent A.; LePine, Jeffery A. (2007). "Trust, trustworthiness, and trust propensity: A meta-analytic test of their unique relationships with risk taking and job performance". Journal of Applied Psychology. American Psychological Association. 92 (4): 909–927. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.92.4.909. ISSN 1939-1854. PMID 17638454.
^ Collins, Nancy L. (1996). "Working models of attachment: Implications for explanation, emotion, and behavior". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 71 (4): 810–832. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.71.4.810. ISSN 1939-1315. PMID 8888604.
^ Fehr, E., Kirchsteiger, G., and Riedl, A.. "Does Fairness Prevent Market Clearing? An Experimental Investigation". Quarterly Journal of Economics 108 (May 1993), pp. 437–460.
Van Der Werff, L.; Freeney, Y.; Lance, C. E.; Buckley, F. (2019). "Frontiersin". Frontiers in Psychology. 10: 2490. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2019.02490. PMC 6848461. PMID 31749749.
^ Timmons-Mitchell, Jane; Gardner, Sondra (1991). "Treating sexual victimization: Developing trust-based relating in the mother-daughter dyad". Psychotherapy: Theory, Research, Practice, Training. American Psychological Association. 28 (2): 333–338. doi:10.1037/0033-3204.28.2.333. ISSN 1939-1536.
Wang, Zuoming (2017-11-30). "Media, Biotechnology, and Trust: What Drives Citizens to Support Biotechnology". Studies in Media and Communication. 5 (2): 157–165. doi:10.11114/smc.v5i2.2803.
Despite the centrality of trust to the positive functioning of humans and relationships, very little is known about how and why trust evolves, is maintained, and is destroyed.[41]
^ Baier, A. (1986). "Trust and antitrust". Ethics, vol. 96, pp. 231–260. Reprinted in: Moral Prejudices. Cambridge University Press.
^ King, Valarie (August 2002). "Parental Divorce and Interpersonal Trust in Adult Offspring". Journal of Marriage and Family. 64 (3): 642–656. doi:10.1111/j.1741-3737.2002.00642.x. JSTOR 3599931.
^ a b c d e f g Foddy, M.; Platow, M.J.; Yamagishi, T. (2009). "Group-based trust in strangers: The role of stereotypes and expectations". Psychological Science. 20 (4): 419–422. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9280.2009.02312.x. PMID 19399956. S2CID 29922902.
"Ethnic Diversity and Social Trust: A Narrative and Meta-Analytical Review"
Low trust relationships occur where individuals have little confidence their partner is truly concerned about them or the relationship.[45] Those in low trust relationships tend to make distress-maintaining attributions[46][47] whereby the consequences of partner's negative behavior become of greatest focus, and any impacts of positive actions are minimized. This feeds into the overarching notion that the individual's partner is disinterested in the relationship, and any positive acts are met with skepticism, leading to further negative outcomes.[45]
^ Colquitt, Jason A.; Scott, Brent A.; LePine, Jeffery A. (2007). "Trust, trustworthiness, and trust propensity: A meta-analytic test of their unique relationships with risk taking and job performance". Journal of Applied Psychology. American Psychological Association. 92 (4): 909–927. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.92.4.909. ISSN 1939-1854. PMID 17638454.
Hawley, Katherine (2012-10-25). "Trust, Distrust and Commitment". Noûs. 48 (1): 1–20. doi:10.1111/nous.12000. hdl:10023/3430. ISSN 0029-4624.
"The dynamics of contractual and relational governance: Evidence from long-term public-private procurement arrangements"
Maister, David H., Green, Charles H. & Galford, Robert M. (2000). The Trusted Advisor. Free Press, New York[ISBN missing]
^ Lisa M. DeBruine (7 July 2002). "Facial resemblance enhances trust". Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. Series B: Biological Sciences. 269 (1498): 1307–1312. doi:10.1098/rspb.2002.2034. PMC 1691034. PMID 12079651.
Bernotat, Jasmin; Eyssel, Friederike; Sachse, Janik (2019-05-25). "The (Fe)male Robot: How Robot Body Shape Impacts First Impressions and Trust Towards Robots". International Journal of Social Robotics. 13 (3): 477–489. doi:10.1007/s12369-019-00562-7. S2CID 182570618.
^ Bernotat, Jasmin; Eyssel, Friederike; Sachse, Janik (2019-05-25). "The (Fe)male Robot: How Robot Body Shape Impacts First Impressions and Trust Towards Robots". International Journal of Social Robotics. 13 (3): 477–489. doi:10.1007/s12369-019-00562-7. S2CID 182570618.
Data privacy and trust in cloud computing : building trust in the cloud through assurance and accountability
Simpson, Jeffry A. (2016-06-23). "Psychological Foundations of Trust". Current Directions in Psychological Science. 16 (5): 264–268. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8721.2007.00517.x. ISSN 1467-8721. S2CID 45119866.
"The Happy Personality: A Meta-Analysis of 137 Personality Traits and Subjective Well-Being"
DeBruine, Lisa (3 November 2005). "Trustworthy but not lust-worthy: context-specific effects of facial resemblance". Proceedings of the Royal Society B. 272 (1566): 919–22. doi:10.1098/rspb.2004.3003. JSTOR 30047623. PMC 1564091. PMID 16024346.
^ Banks, Jaime (2021-01-28). "Of like mind: The (mostly) similar mentalizing of robots and humans". Technology, Mind, and Behavior. 1 (2). doi:10.1037/tmb0000025.
^ Pettit, Philip (1995). "The Cunning of Trust". Philosophy & Public Affairs. 24 (3): 202–225. doi:10.1111/j.1088-4963.1995.tb00029.x. ISSN 0048-3915. JSTOR 2961900.
"Rise of Machine Agency: A Framework for Studying the Psychology of Human–AI Interaction (HAII)"
From a social identity perspective, the propensity to trust strangers (see in-group favoritism) arises from the mutual knowledge of a shared group membership,[38][39] stereotypes,[39] or the need to maintain the group's positive distinctiveness.[40]
Sociology acknowledges that the contingency of the future creates dependency between social actors, and specifically that the trustor becomes dependent on the trustee. Trust is seen as one of the possible methods to resolve such a dependency, being an attractive alternative to control.[21] Trust is specifically valuable if the trustee is much more powerful than the trustor, yet the trustor is under social obligation to support the trustee.[22]
Whilst many philosophers have written about different forms of trust, most would agree interpersonal trust is the foundation on which these forms can be modeled.[69] For an act to be classed as an expression of trust, it must not betray the expectations of the trustee. In this sense, some philosophers such as Lagerspetz argue that trust is a kind of reliance, though not merely reliance.[70] Gambetta argued it is the inherent belief that others generally have good intentions which is the foundation for our reliance on them.[71] Philosophers such as Annette Baier have contended this view, establishing a difference between trust and reliance by saying that trust can be betrayed, whilst reliance can only be disappointed (Baier 1986, 235).[72] Carolyn McLeod explains Baier's argument by giving the following examples: we can rely on our clock to give the time, but we do not feel betrayed when it breaks, thus, we cannot say that we trusted it; we are not trusting when we are suspicious of the other person, because this is in fact an expression of distrust (McLeod 2006).[69] The violation of trust warrants this sense of betrayal.[73] Thus, trust is different from reliance in the sense that a trustor accepts the risk of being betrayed.
Other interesting games are e.g. binary-choice trust games,[92] the gift-exchange game[93] and various other forms of social games. Specifically games based on the Prisoner's Dilemma[94] are popularly used to link trust with economic utility and demonstrate the rationality behind reciprocity.
^ Luhmann, N. (1979). Trust and Power. John Wiley & Sons.
Generalized trust, or trust in strangers, is an important form of trust in modern society, involving a large amount of social interactions among strangers.[25]
Out-group trust is the trust an individual has in members of a different group. This could be members of a different ethnic group, or citizens of a different country, for example.
^ Braynov, Sviatoslav (2002). "Contracting with uncertain level of Trust". Computational Intelligence. 18 (4): 501–514. doi:10.1111/1467-8640.00200. S2CID 33473191.
^ Natarajan, Manisha; Gombolay, Matthew (2020-03-09). "Effects of Anthropomorphism and Accountability on Trust in Human Robot Interaction". Proceedings of the 2020 ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction: 33–42. doi:10.1145/3319502.3374839. ISBN 9781450367462. S2CID 212549044.
Humans have a natural disposition to trust and to judge trustworthiness of other individuals or groups of humans and things - in developing relationships with potential mentors worthy of trust for example, perhaps as part of interprofessional work in the referral pathway from an emergency department to a hospital ward,[60] or as part of the process and work of building knowledge on whether the new practices, people, and things introduced into our lives are indeed accountable or worthy of investing confidence and trust in (as captured by the empirically grounded construct of 'Relational Integration' within Normalization Process Theory[61][62]). This can be traced in neuroscience terms to the neurobiological structure and activity of a human brain. Some studies indicate that trust can be altered e.g. by the application of oxytocin.[63][64]
Lagerspetz, Olli (1998). "Trust: The Tacit Demand". Library of Ethics and Applied Philosophy. 1. doi:10.1007/978-94-015-8986-4. ISBN 978-90-481-4963-6. ISSN 1387-6678.
^ The Spirit Level: Why More Equal Societies Almost Always Do Better. London, Allen Lane (2009). ISBN 978-1-84614-039-6 UK Paperback edition ISBN 978-0-14-103236-8 (2010)
^ Vanhala, Mika; Puumalainen, Kaisu; Blomqvist, Kirsimarja (2011). "Impersonal trust: The development of the construct and the scale". Personnel Review. 40: 485–513. doi:10.1108/00483481111133354.
^ a b Tomlinson, Edward; Schnackenberg, Andrew; Dawley, David; Ash, Steven (2020). "Revisiting the trustworthiness-trust relationship: Exploring the differential predictors of cognition- and affect-based trust". Journal of Organizational Behavior. 41 (6): 535–550. doi:10.1002/job.2448. S2CID 218955149.
In systems, a trusted component has a set of properties which another component can rely on. If A trusts B, a violation in those properties of B might compromise the correct operation of A. Observe that those properties of B trusted by A might not correspond quantitatively or qualitatively to B's actual properties. This occurs when the designer of the overall system does not take the relation into account. In consequence, trust should be placed to the extent of the component's trustworthiness. The trustworthiness of a component is thus, not surprisingly, defined by how well it secures a set of functional and non-functional properties, deriving from its architecture, construction, and environment, and evaluated as appropriate.[108]
Resnick, P."The value of reputation on eBay: a controlled experiment". Experimental Economics, volume 9, Issue 2, Jun 2006, pp. 79–101.
Economic 'trust games' are popularly used to empirically quantify trust in relationships under laboratory conditions. There are several games and game-like scenarios related to trust that have been tried, with certain preferences to those that allow the estimation of confidence in monetary terms.[88] Games of trust are designed in a way such that the Nash equilibrium differs from Pareto optimum so that no player alone can maximize his own utility by altering his selfish strategy without cooperation. Cooperating partners can also benefit. The classical version of the game of trust has been described[89] as an abstracted investment game, using the scenario of an investor and a broker. The investor can invest a fraction of his money, and broker can return only part of his gains. If both players follow their economical best interest, the investor should never invest and the broker will never be able to repay anything. Thus the flow of money flow, its volume and character is attributable entirely to the existence of trust. The game can be played as a once-off, or repeatedly, with the same or different sets of players to distinguish between a general propensity to trust and trust within particular relationships. Several other variants of this game exist. Reversing rules lead to the game of distrust, pre-declarations can be used to establish intentions of players,[90] while alterations to the distribution of gains can be used to manipulate perception of both players. The game can be also played by several players on the closed market,[91] with or without information about reputation.
Lynn, Theo (2021). Data privacy and trust in cloud computing : building trust in the cloud through assurance and accountability. Palgrave Studies in Digital Business & Enabling Technologies. Open. Cham: Springer. p. 20. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-54660-1. ISBN 978-3-030-54659-5. OCLC 1202743216. S2CID 242965934. Trust is generally defined as a willingness to accept vulnerability based on positive expectation of another party.
^ Lankton, Nancy; McKnight, Harrison; Tripp, John (2015). "Technology, Humanness, and Trust: Rethinking Trust in Technology". Journal of the Association for Information Systems. 16 (10): 880–918. doi:10.17705/1jais.00411. ISSN 1536-9323. S2CID 45062514.
Sociology tends to focus on two distinct views: the macro view of social systems, and a micro view of individual social actors (where it borders with social psychology). Similarly, views on trust follow this dichotomy. On one side, the systemic role of trust can be discussed with a certain disregard to the psychological complexity underpinning individual trust. The behavioral approach to trust is usually assumed[19] while actions of social actors are measurable, leading to statistical modelling of trust. This systemic approach can be contrasted[20] with studies on social actors and their decision-making process, in anticipation that understanding of such a process will explain (and allow to model) the emergence of trust.
"Neighborhood disorder and generalized trust: A multilevel mediation examination of social mechanisms"
DeNeve, Kristina M.; Cooper, Harris (1998). "The Happy Personality: A Meta-Analysis of 137 Personality Traits and Subjective Well-Being" (PDF). Psychological Bulletin. 124 (2): 197–229. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.124.2.197. PMID 9747186.
^ a b Hardin, Russell (2002-03-21). Trust and Trustworthiness. Russell Sage Foundation. ISBN 978-1-61044-271-8.
^ May, Carl R.; Cummings, Amanda; Girling, Melissa; Bracher, Mike; Mair, Frances S.; May, Christine M.; Murray, Elizabeth; Myall, Michelle; Rapley, Tim; Finch, Tracy (2018-06-07). "Using Normalization Process Theory in feasibility studies and process evaluations of complex healthcare interventions: a systematic review". Implementation Science. 13 (1): 80. doi:10.1186/s13012-018-0758-1. ISSN 1748-5908. PMC 5992634. PMID 29879986.
Giddens, A. (1991) Modernity and Self-identity: Self and Society in the Late Modern Age. Polity Press.
Hardin, Russell (2002-03-21). Trust and Trustworthiness. Russell Sage Foundation. ISBN 978-1-61044-271-8.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Schilke, Oliver; Reimann, Martin; Cook, Karen S. (2021). "Trust in Social Relations". Annual Review of Sociology. 47 (1): 239–259. doi:10.1146/annurev-soc-082120-082850. ISSN 0360-0572. S2CID 231685149.
Mollering, G.. "The Trust/Control Duality: An Integrative Perspective on Positive Expectations of Others". In: Int. Sociology, September 2005, Vol. 20(3): 283–305.
Billings, Deborah R.; Schaefer, Kristin E.; Chen, Jessie Y.; Kocsis, Vivien; Barrera, Maria; Cook, Jacquelyn; Ferrer, Michelle; Hancock, Peter A. (2012-03-01), Human-Animal Trust as an Analog for Human-Robot Trust: A Review of Current Evidence, University of Central Florida Orlando – via Defense Technical Information Center
^ a b Wang, Zuoming (2017-11-30). "Media, Biotechnology, and Trust: What Drives Citizens to Support Biotechnology". Studies in Media and Communication. 5 (2): 157–165. doi:10.11114/smc.v5i2.2803.
Several dozen studies have examined the impact of ethnic diversity on social trust. Research published in the Annual Review of Political Science[24] concluded that there were three key debates on the subject:
Tanis, M.; Postmes, T. (2005). "A social identity approach to trust: Interpersonal perception, group membership and trusting behaviour" (PDF). European Journal of Social Psychology. 35 (3): 413–424. doi:10.1002/ejsp.256. S2CID 15706516.
Holtzworth-Munroe, Amy; Jacobson, Neil S. (1985). "Causal attributions of married couples: When do they search for causes? What do they conclude when they do?". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 48 (6): 1398–1412. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.48.6.1398. ISSN 1939-1315. PMID 4020604.
^ a b c d e f Biel, Anders; Eek, Daniel; Gärling, Tommy; Gustafsson, Mathias, eds. (2008). New issues and paradigms in research on social dilemmas. New York, N.Y.: Springer. ISBN 978-0-387-72596-3. OCLC 233971331.
^ Garcia-Retamero, Rocio; Müller, Stephanie M.; Rousseau, David L. (2012-03-13). "The Impact of Value Similarity and Power on the Perception of Threat". Political Psychology. 33 (2): 179–193. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9221.2012.00869.x. ISSN 0162-895X.
^ Lewicki, Roy; Brinsfield, Chad (2011). "Trust as a heuristic". Framing Matters: Perspectives on Negotiation Research and Practice in Communication. Peter Lang Publishing.
^ Akerlof, George A. (1970). "The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism". The Quarterly Journal of Economics. 84 (3): 488–500. doi:10.2307/1879431. JSTOR 1879431.
^ Camerer, C.; Weigelt, K. (1988). "Experimental Tests of a Sequential Equilibrium Reputation Model". Econometrica. 56 (1): 1–36. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.458.4383. doi:10.2307/1911840. JSTOR 1911840.
^ Paulo Verissimo, Miguel Correia, Nuno F. Neves, Paulo Sousa. "Intrusion-Resilient Middleware Design and Validation". In Annals of Emerging Research in Information Assurance, Security and Privacy Services, H. Raghav Rao and Shambhu Upadhyaya (eds.), Elsevier, to appear. 2008.
^ Berg, J., Dickhaut, J., & McCabe, K. (1995). "Trust, reciprocity, and social history". Games and Economic Behaviour, 10, 122–142
^ Hawley, Katherine (2012-10-25). "Trust, Distrust and Commitment". Noûs. 48 (1): 1–20. doi:10.1111/nous.12000. hdl:10023/3430. ISSN 0029-4624.
Baier, A. (1986). "Trust and antitrust". Ethics, vol. 96, pp. 231–260. Reprinted in: Moral Prejudices. Cambridge University Press.
The social identity approach explains trust in strangers as a function of group-based stereotypes or in-group favoring behaviors based on salient group memberships. With regard to ingroup favoritism, people generally think well of strangers but expect better treatment from in-group members in comparison to out-group members. This greater expectation then translates into a higher propensity to trust an in-group rather than out-group member.[38][40][65] It has been pointed out that it is only advantageous to form such expectations of an in-group stranger if they too know the group membership of the recipient.[65]
"A Fuzzy Inference System for Synergy Estimation of Simultaneous Emotion Dynamics in Agents"
"Of like mind: The (mostly) similar mentalizing of robots and humans"
Sztompka, P. (1999). Trust: A Sociological Theory. Cambridge University Press.
Akerlof, George A. (1970). "The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism". The Quarterly Journal of Economics. 84 (3): 488–500. doi:10.2307/1879431. JSTOR 1879431.
Guo, Shiau-Ling; Lumineau, Fabrice; Lewicki, Roy J. (2017-02-15). "Revisiting the Foundations of Organizational Distrust". Foundations and Trends in Management. 1 (1): 1–88. doi:10.1561/3400000001. ISSN 2475-6946.
^ Sundar, S Shyam (January 2020). "Rise of Machine Agency: A Framework for Studying the Psychology of Human–AI Interaction (HAII)". Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication. 25 (1): 74–88. doi:10.1093/jcmc/zmz026.
Platow, M. J.; Foddy, M.; Yamagishi, T.; Lim, L.; Chow, A. (2012). "Two experimental tests of trust in in-group strangers: The moderating role of common knowledge of group membership". European Journal of Social Psychology. 42: 30–35. doi:10.1002/ejsp.852.
One factor that enhances trust among humans is facial resemblance. Through digital manipulation of facial resemblance in a two-person sequential trust game, supporting evidence was found that having similar facial features (facial resemblance) enhanced trust in a subject's respective partner.[42] Though facial resemblance was shown to increase trust, it also had the effect of decreased sexual desire in a particular partner. In a series of tests, digitally manipulated faces were presented to subjects to be evaluated for attractiveness within the context of a long-term or short-term relationship. The results showed that within the context of a short-term relationship, which is dependent on sexual desire, similar facial features caused a decrease in desire. Within the context of a long-term relationship, which is dependent on trust, similar facial features increased the attractiveness of an individual, leading one to believe that facial resemblance and trust have great effects on relationships.[43]
Sujan, M. A., Huang, H., & Biggerstaff, D. (2019). Trust and psychological safety as facilitators of resilient health care. In Working Across Boundaries (pp. 125-136). CRC Press.
Morgan, Robert; Hunt, S. (July 1994). "The Commitment-Trust Theory of Relationship Marketing". The Journal of Marketing. 58 (3): 20–38. doi:10.2307/1252308. JSTOR 1252308.
^ Sujan, M. A., Huang, H., & Biggerstaff, D. (2019). Trust and psychological safety as facilitators of resilient health care. In Working Across Boundaries (pp. 125-136). CRC Press.
Camerer, C.; Weigelt, K. (1988). "Experimental Tests of a Sequential Equilibrium Reputation Model". Econometrica. 56 (1): 1–36. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.458.4383. doi:10.2307/1911840. JSTOR 1911840.
In the context of information theory, Ed Gerck defines and contrasts trust with social functions such as power, surveillance, and accountability.[36][37]
Modern information technologies have not only facilitated the transition towards a post-modern society, but have also challenged traditional views on trust. Information systems research has identified that individuals have evolved to trust in technology, demonstrated by two primary constructs. The first consists of human-like constructs including benevolence, honesty and competence, whilst the second employs system-like constructs such as usefulness, reliability and functionality.[23] The discussion surrounding the relationship between information technologies and trust is still in progress as research remains in its infant stages.
Empirical research has demonstrated that when group membership is made salient and known to both parties, trust is granted more readily to in-group members than out-group members.[39][65][66] This occurred even when the in-group stereotype was comparatively less positive than an out-group's (e.g. psychology versus nursing majors),[39] in the absence of personal identity cues,[40] and when participants had the option of a sure sum of money (i.e. in essence opting out of the need to trust a stranger).[38] In contrast, when only the recipient was made aware of group membership, trust becomes reliant upon group stereotypes.[39][40] The group with the more positive stereotype was trusted (e.g. one's university affiliation over another)[40] even over that of the in-group (e.g. nursing over psychology majors).[39] Another reason for in-groups favoring behaviors in trust could be attributed to the need to maintain in-group positive distinctiveness, particularly in the presence of social identity threat.[66] Trust in out-group strangers increased when personal cues to identity were revealed.[40]
^ Simon, Herbert Alexander (1997). Models of Bounded Rationality: Empirically grounded economic reason. MIT Press. ISBN 978-0-262-19372-6.
In management and organization science, trust is studied as a factor that can be managed and influenced by organizational actors. Scholars have paid particular attention to how trust develops across individual and organizational levels of analysis.[100] They suggest a reciprocal process where organizational structures influence individuals’ trust and, at the same time, individuals’ trust manifests in organizational structures. Trust is also one of the conditions of an organizational culture that supports knowledge sharing.[101] An organizational culture that supports knowledge sharing allows employees to feel secure and comfortable to share their knowledge, their work and their expertise.[101][102] Structure often creates trust in a person that encourages them to feel comfortable and excel in the workplace; it makes an otherwise stressful environment manageable. By having a conveniently organized area to work on, concentration will increase as well as effort.
"The Impact of Value Similarity and Power on the Perception of Threat"
^ Jones, Karen (2005), "Trust as an Affective Attitude", Personal Virtues, London: Palgrave Macmillan UK, pp. 253–279, doi:10.1007/978-0-230-20409-6_11, ISBN 978-1-4039-9455-4, retrieved 2020-11-01
"Good Robots, Bad Robots: Morally Valenced Behavior Effects on Perceived Mind, Morality, and Trust"
Kini, A., & Choobineh, J. (January 1998). "Trust in electronic commerce: Definition and theoretical considerations". Paper presented at the Thirty-First Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Kohala Coast, HI.
Luhmann, N. (1979). Trust and Power. John Wiley & Sons.
^Intravia, J.; Stewart, E.; Warren, P.; Wolff, K. (2016). "Neighborhood disorder and generalized trust: A multilevel mediation examination of social mechanisms". Journal of Criminal Justice. 46 (1): 148–158. doi:10.1016/j.jcrimjus.2016.05.003.
^ DeNeve, Kristina M.; Cooper, Harris (1998). "The Happy Personality: A Meta-Analysis of 137 Personality Traits and Subjective Well-Being" (PDF). Psychological Bulletin. 124 (2): 197–229. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.124.2.197. PMID 9747186.
Trust is integral to the idea of social influence: it is easier to influence or persuade someone who is trusting. The notion of trust is increasingly adopted to predict acceptance of behaviors by others, institutions (e.g. government agencies) and objects such as machines. Yet once again, perceptions of honesty, competence and value similarity[30] (slightly similar to benevolence) are essential.
Dinesen, Peter Thisted; Schaeffer, Merlin; Sønderskov, Kim Mannemar (2020). "Ethnic Diversity and Social Trust: A Narrative and Meta-Analytical Review". Annual Review of Political Science. 23: 441–465. doi:10.1146/annurev-polisci-052918-020708.
The Spirit Level: Why More Equal Societies Almost Always Do Better. London, Allen Lane (2009). ISBN 978-1-84614-039-6 UK Paperback edition ISBN 978-0-14-103236-8 (2010)
Oma, Kristin Armstrong (2010-06-01). "Between trust and domination: social contracts between humans and animals". World Archaeology. 42 (2): 175–187. doi:10.1080/00438241003672724. S2CID 219608475.
Child Development Institute Parenting Today. "Stages of Social-Emotional Development In Children and Teenagers". Childdevelopmentinfo.com. Archived from the original on October 2, 2011. Retrieved 2013-01-04.
^ Lagerspetz, Olli (1998). "Trust: The Tacit Demand". Library of Ethics and Applied Philosophy. 1. doi:10.1007/978-94-015-8986-4. ISBN 978-90-481-4963-6. ISSN 1387-6678.
^ Atifa Athar; M. Saleem Khan; Khalil Ahmed; Aiesha Ahmed; Nida Anwar (June 2011). "A Fuzzy Inference System for Synergy Estimation of Simultaneous Emotion Dynamics in Agents". International Journal of Scientific & Engineering Research. 2 (6).
^ Berg, Joyce; Dickhaut, John; McCabe, Kevin (1995-07-01). "Trust, Reciprocity, and Social History". Games and Economic Behavior. 10 (1): 122–142. doi:10.1006/game.1995.1027. ISSN 0899-8256.
^ Giddens, A. (1991) Modernity and Self-identity: Self and Society in the Late Modern Age. Polity Press.
Fulmer, C. Ashley; Gelfand, Michele J. (2012-07-01). "At What Level (and in Whom) We Trust: Trust Across Multiple Organizational Levels". Journal of Management. 38 (4): 1167–1230. doi:10.1177/0149206312439327. ISSN 0149-2063. S2CID 5506486.
Braynov, Sviatoslav (2002). "Contracting with uncertain level of Trust". Computational Intelligence. 18 (4): 501–514. doi:10.1111/1467-8640.00200. S2CID 33473191.
Coleman, J. (1990). Foundations of Social Theory. The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press.
Natarajan, Manisha; Gombolay, Matthew (2020-03-09). "Effects of Anthropomorphism and Accountability on Trust in Human Robot Interaction". Proceedings of the 2020 ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction: 33–42. doi:10.1145/3319502.3374839. ISBN 9781450367462. S2CID 212549044.
Bachmann, R. (2001). "Trust, Power and Control in Transorganizational Relations". Organization Studies. 22 (2): 337–365. doi:10.1177/0170840601222007. S2CID 5657206.
May, Carl R.; Cummings, Amanda; Girling, Melissa; Bracher, Mike; Mair, Frances S.; May, Christine M.; Murray, Elizabeth; Myall, Michelle; Rapley, Tim; Finch, Tracy (2018-06-07). "Using Normalization Process Theory in feasibility studies and process evaluations of complex healthcare interventions: a systematic review". Implementation Science. 13 (1): 80. doi:10.1186/s13012-018-0758-1. ISSN 1748-5908. PMC 5992634. PMID 29879986.
Trust (parliamentary group), a Ukrainian parliamentary group and political party
Trust (business), the combination of several businesses under the same management to prevent competition
Trust (Belgian band), a pop music group formed in 2007
Trust (electronics company), a European producer and designer of computer peripherals and accessories, mainly in the low-budget market
Trieste United States Troops, a 1947–1953 US Army occupation unit
This page was last edited on 15 March 2023, at 16:35 (UTC).
2Arts, entertainment, and media											Toggle Arts, entertainment, and media subsection																					2.1Films																											2.2Music																								2.2.1Artists																											2.2.2Albums																											2.2.3Songs																														2.3Television
Trusted system, a computerized system relied on to enforce a security policy
Trust (2021 film), a drama film directed by Brian DeCubellis
Trust (2010 film), a drama film directed by David Schwimmer
Trust (social science), confidence in or dependence on a person or quality
Trust, a 2009 film starring Jamie Luner and Nels Lennarson
Computational trust, generation of trusted authorities or user trust through cryptography
"Trust", a 2005 episode of the ABC Family drama television series Wildfire
Trust (British political party), formed by Stuart Wheeler in 2010
Trust (Greek political party), a Muslim party in the Rhodope region
The Trust (2016 film), a film starring Nicolas Cage and Elijah Wood
Web of trust, a system used in cryptography to establish authenticity
"Trust" (Revenge), a 2011 episode of the American television series
Trust metric, a measurement of the degree to which group members trust each other, as in online networking
Trust (French band), a rock music group formed in 1977
The Trust (1993 film), an American drama about a murder in 1900
The Trust (music production duo), a U.S. music production duo
Trust law, a body of law one person holds property for the benefit of another
Trust (Canadian band), a synthpop music group formed in 2010
^ Doyle, Matt (17 April 2015). "The Benefits of a Delaware Statutory Trust". Excel Builders. Retrieved 24 July 2015.
^ a b "Delaware Statutory Trusts". Scott E. Waxman. Archived from the original on 2011-07-15. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
asset protection for the beneficial owner (or vice versa: a creditor of a DST beneficial owner cannot take legal action against the DST's property)
Features of a Delaware statutory trust are very attractive to many business entities. These features include:[7][13][14]
The trustee cannot enter into new leases, or renegotiate the current leases unless there is a need due to a tenant bankruptcy or insolvency.
"Treasury and IRS Address Exchanges on Interest in Delaware Statutory Trust Rev. Rul. 2004-86"
Doyle, Matt (17 April 2015). "The Benefits of a Delaware Statutory Trust". Excel Builders. Retrieved 24 July 2015.
"Internal Revenue Bulletin: 2004-33". United States of America Internal Revenue Service. 2004-08-16. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Delaware Business Trusts". Larry D. Sullivan, Esq. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
^ Pappas, Leslie (6 January 2016). Cashing In Tax Free. ISBN 978-0692582145.
"Delaware Statutory Trusts". Scott E. Waxman. Archived from the original on 2011-07-15. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
"Delaware Statutory Trusts: The Best Features of This New Form of Entity". Charles J. Durante. 2010-07-26. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
"Treasury and IRS Address Exchanges on Interest in Delaware Statutory Trust Rev. Rul. 2004-86" (PDF). United States of America Department of the Treasury. 2004-07-20. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
"[M]ay a taxpayer exchange real property for an interest in a Delaware statutory trust without recognition of gain or loss under § 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code?"[8][9]"A taxpayer may exchange real property for an interest in the Delaware statutory trust described above without recognition of gain or loss under § 1031, if the other requirements of § 1031 are satisfied."[8][9][10]
^ a b c d e f g h "Internal Revenue Bulletin: 2004-33". United States of America Internal Revenue Service. 2004-08-16. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
^ Kay, Dwight (April 28, 2015). Delaware Statutory Trust Properties, an Introduction to DST Properties for 1031 Investors. Los Angeles, CA: CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform. ISBN 9781514627648.
Delaware Statutory Trust Properties, an Introduction to DST Properties for 1031 Investors
On August 16, 2004, Internal Revenue Bulletin 2004-33 was published in reference to Rev. Rul. 2004-86. This involved a Delaware Statutory Trust that came before the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Treasury Department, who offered a ruling on the following two issues:[8][9]
^ a b c d "Delaware Statutory Trust". Delaware Corporate Services Inc. Archived from the original on 2010-06-14. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
"State of Delaware Charter Title 12 Chapter 38". The State of Delaware. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
DST Investments are offered as replacement property for accredited investors seeking to defer their capital gains taxes through the use of a 1031 tax deferred exchange and as straight cash investments for those wishing to diversify their real estate holdings. The DST property ownership structure allows the smaller investor to own a fractional interest in large, institutional quality and professionally managed commercial property along with other investors, not as limited partners, but as individual owners within a Trust.Each ownerreceives their percentage share of the cash flow income, tax benefits, and appreciation, if any, of the entire property.DSTs provide the investor the potential for annual appreciation and depreciation (tax shelter), and most have minimum investments as low as $100,000, allowing some investors the benefit of diversification into several properties.[3]
The trustee is limited to making capital expenditures with respect to the property for normal repair and maintenance, minor nonstructural capital improvements, and those required by law.
ease of obtaining leases, loans, and corporate bonds and notes (as part of real estate investment trusts, etc.)
The formation of a Delaware statutory trust is relatively simple and inexpensive, when compared to that of the more complex filings of other entity types. To form a statutory trust, a private trust agreement must be developed by all involved parties to ensure that individual interests are protected.[5] The private trust agreement need not be shown to any official of the State.[5] Once the agreement is completed, a Certificate of Trust can be obtained from the Delaware Division of Corporations and completed.[5] The signatures of the trustee(s) involved are then required, followed by submission of the forms to the Division of Corporations, along with a one-time $500 processing fee. If the statutory trust is, or will become, a registered investment company, it must maintain a registered agent and a registered office within the State of Delaware.[2] If no desire for the statutory trust to be an investment company exists, the only remaining requirement is that it must have at least one trustee who resides in, or has a principal place of business within the State of Delaware.[2][5]
^ a b "State of Delaware Charter Title 12 Chapter 38". The State of Delaware. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
A Delaware statutory trust (DST) is a legally recognized trust that is set up for the purpose of business, but not necessarily in the U.S. state of Delaware. It may also be referred to as an Unincorporated Business Trust or UBO.[1]
Pappas, Leslie (6 January 2016). Cashing In Tax Free. ISBN 978-0692582145.
As an entity that was created within the boundaries of Delaware and is written into the Delaware state charter, Title 12 Chapter 38, there is no question as to where the state stands on the backing of the Delaware statutory trust.[11] Limited liability is offered for DSTs, affording each trustee the benefit of personal asset protection. DSTs can be structured as a pass through entity, so that any income will go straight to each individual trustee's Form 1040 and state's tax returns, thus avoiding income tax at the entity level.[2][11][12]
Any reserves or cash held between distribution dates can only be invested in short-term debt obligations.
The trustee cannot reinvest the proceeds from the sale of its real estate.
These holdings of the federal government offered a clearer notion that Delaware statutory trusts are legal entities, separate from their trustee(s), offering them limited liability. In addition, Delaware statutory trusts were shown to be considered a trust for federal tax purposes, making them a pass through entity that mitigates taxation for their trustee(s).[8][9] The second holding offers the opinion that real property, being held under a Delaware statutory trust, is eligible to use a 1031 exchange, without the recognition of gain or loss, as long as the following seven restrictions are met:[8][9]
3Legal and tax implications											Toggle Legal and tax implications subsection																					3.1Federal/1031 Exchange																											3.2Local
Pappas, Leslie (6 January 2016). Cashing In Tax free. ISBN 978-0692582145.
Once the offering is closed, there can be no future contributions to the DST by either current or new beneficiaries.
The concept for business trusts, especially those that involve the holding of property, dates back to 16th century English Common Law.[5] In Delaware, it was not until 1947 that Common Law began recognizing statutory trusts.[6] No legal recognition of statutory trusts existed until the passage of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act (DSTA), 12 Del. C. 3801 et. Seq., in 1988.[6] Under The Act, developed on the premise of trust law,[7] statutory trusts were now recognized as their own legal entity, separate from their trustee(s),[8] offering freedom from the corporate law template.[7] Within the tradition of trust law, freedom of contract allows the trustee(s) to structure their entity in a way that is most beneficial to the relationship of all parties and their expertise, while offering liability protection similar to that of a Limited liability company or Partnership.[7] Since the year 2000, Delaware statutory trusts have increasingly been used as a form of tax deferral, asset protection, and balance sheet advantages in real estate, securitization, mezzanine financing, real estate investment trusts (REITs), and mutual funds.[7] Massachusetts, another state that has trust law, refers to its legal entity as a Massachusetts business trust. Most states, however, still rely on Common Law to oversee the trusts within their jurisdiction.[5]
^ a b c d e f "101 on Delaware Statutory Trusts". Rick Bell. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
The trustee cannot renegotiate the terms of the existing loans and cannot borrow any new funds from any party, unless a loan default exists as a result of a tenant bankruptcy or insolvency.
^ a b c d e "Delaware Statutory Trusts: The Best Features of This New Form of Entity". Charles J. Durante. 2010-07-26. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 17:39 (UTC).
^ a b c d e f g "Treasury and IRS Address Exchanges on Interest in Delaware Statutory Trust Rev. Rul. 2004-86" (PDF). United States of America Department of the Treasury. 2004-07-20. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
Admin, Financial Tales. "Delaware Statutory Trust (DST) and 1031 Exchange Consultants". seracapital.com/. Retrieved 2021-01-25.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Delaware Business Trusts". Larry D. Sullivan, Esq. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
^ Admin, Financial Tales. "Delaware Statutory Trust (DST) and 1031 Exchange Consultants". seracapital.com/. Retrieved 2021-01-25.
^ "Benefits of Using a DST for Your 1031 Exchange".
"[H]ow is a Delaware statutory trust, described in Del. Code Ann. title 12, §§ 3801 - 3824, classified for federal tax purposes?"[8][9]"The Delaware statutory trust described above is an investment trust, under § 301.7701-4(c), that will be classified as a trust for federal tax purposes."[8][9]
Delaware statutory trusts are formed as private governing agreements under which either (1) property (real, tangible and intangible) is held, managed, administered, invested and/or operated; or (2) business or professional activities for profit are carried on by one or more trustees for the benefit of the trustor entitled to a beneficial interest in the trust property.[2]
^ Pappas, Leslie (6 January 2016). Cashing In Tax free. ISBN 978-0692582145.
"Delaware Statutory Trusts: The Best Features of This New Form of Entity"
Kay, Dwight (April 28, 2015). Delaware Statutory Trust Properties, an Introduction to DST Properties for 1031 Investors. Los Angeles, CA: CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform. ISBN 9781514627648.
The DST ownership option essentially offers the same benefits and risks that an investor would receive as a single large-scale investment property owner, but without the management responsibility.Each DST property asset is managed by professional investment real estate asset managers and property managers. It used to be that only large institutional investors such as life insurance companies, pension funds, real estate investment trusts (REITS), college endowments and foundations were able to invest in these properties.Now as a viable 1031 exchange replacement property option through a DST, individual investors have the ability to invest in a diversified selection of institutional quality, investment property types that they otherwise could not purchase individually. DST Investments are located throughout the United States. Property types may include multifamily apartment communities, office buildings, industrial properties, multi-tenant retail, student housing, assisted living, self-storage facilities, medical office, single tenant retail properties and others .[4]
All cash, other than necessary reserves, must be distributed on a current basis.
"Delaware Statutory Trust". Delaware Corporate Services Inc. Archived from the original on 2010-06-14. Retrieved 2010-11-12.
During heat waves, for instance, there are often additional deaths observed in the population, affecting especially older adults and those who are sick.After some periods with excess mortality, however, there has also been observed a decrease in overall mortality during the subsequent weeks. Such short-term forward shift in mortality rate is also referred to as harvesting effect. The subsequent, compensatory reduction in mortality suggests that the heat wave especially affected those whose health was already so compromised that they "would have died in the short-term anyway" due to other causes, meaning that not all the deaths caused by the heat wave could have been avoided by addressing the effects of heat waves.[3]
Mortality displacement is the occurrence of deaths at an earlier time than they would have otherwise occurred, meaning the deaths are displaced from the future into the present, resulting in a changed life expectancy.
^ Huynen, M.M.; Martens, P.; Schram, D.; Weijenberg, M.P.; Kunst, A.E. (May 2001). "The Impact of Heat Waves and Cold Spells on Mortality Rates in the Dutch Population". Environmental Health Perspectives. 109 (5): 463–470. doi:10.1289/ehp.01109463. PMC 1240305. PMID 11401757.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Islam, Nazrul; Shkolnikov, Vladimir M; Acosta, Rolando J; Klimkin, Ilya; Kawachi, Ichiro; Irizarry, Rafael A; Alicandro, Gianfranco; Khunti, Kamlesh; Yates, Tom; Jdanov, Dmitri A; White, Martin (2021). "Excess deaths associated with covid-19 pandemic in 2020: age and sex disaggregated time series analysis in 29 high income countries". BMJ. 373: n1137. doi:10.1136/bmj.n1137. ISSN 1756-1833. PMC 8132017. PMID 34011491.
Huynen, M.M.; Martens, P.; Schram, D.; Weijenberg, M.P.; Kunst, A.E. (May 2001). "The Impact of Heat Waves and Cold Spells on Mortality Rates in the Dutch Population". Environmental Health Perspectives. 109 (5): 463–470. doi:10.1289/ehp.01109463. PMC 1240305. PMID 11401757.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Islam, Nazrul; Shkolnikov, Vladimir M; Acosta, Rolando J; Klimkin, Ilya; Kawachi, Ichiro; Irizarry, Rafael A; Alicandro, Gianfranco; Khunti, Kamlesh; Yates, Tom; Jdanov, Dmitri A; White, Martin (2021). "Excess deaths associated with covid-19 pandemic in 2020: age and sex disaggregated time series analysis in 29 high income countries". BMJ. 373: n1137. doi:10.1136/bmj.n1137. ISSN 1756-1833. PMC 8132017. PMID 34011491.
In May 2020, the Human Mortality Database project launched a new data series, the Short-term Mortality Fluctuation series (STMF), offering freely available weekly death counts by age and sex for a growing number of countries (34 in October 2020), as well as a visualization tool that captures the excess mortality on a weekly basis. The STMF was established to provide data for scientific analysis of all-cause mortality fluctuations by week within each calendar year in standard formats. Part of the Human Mortality Database use a joint project of two teams based in the Laboratory of Demographic Data at the Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research (MPIDR) and at the Department of Demography of the University of California, Berkeley (UCB).
"Weekly deaths – special data collection". ec.europa.eu. Eurostat. Archived from the original on 2019-07-24. Retrieved 2023-01-16.
NecrosisAvascular necrosisCoagulative necrosisLiquefactive necrosisGangrenous necrosisCaseous necrosisFat necrosisFibrinoid necrosisTemporal lobe necrosis
The collaborative network EuroMOMO (European mortality monitoring activity), monitors mortality across 24 European countries in order to detect and measure excess deaths related to seasonal influenza, pandemics, and other public health threats. EuroMOMO is hosted and maintained by the Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Prevention of Copenhagen, Denmark. They offer regular reports (weekly bulletins), graphs and maps showing the present levels of mortality but the network does not publish openly data. Individual partners may decide to share openly some selected national data, like for instance, MoMo-Spain. The study centre at the Statens Serum Institut in Copenhagen publishes a weekly situation report and regular scientific articles. Periods of high excess mortality have also been described for the United States.[6]
"Weekly deaths – special data collection (demomwk)". Eurostat. 2020. Archived from the original on 20 October 2020. Retrieved 14 October 2020.
Beaney, Thomas; Clarke, Jonathan M; Jain, Vageesh; Golestaneh, Amelia Kataria; Lyons, Gemma; Salman, David; Majeed, Azeem (2020). "Excess mortality: the gold standard in measuring the impact of COVID-19 worldwide?". Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine. 113 (9): 329–334. doi:10.1177/0141076820956802. ISSN 0141-0768. PMC 7488823. PMID 32910871.
"Mortality due to Influenza in the United States – An Annualized Regression Approach Using Multiple-Cause Mortality Data"
A short period of excess mortality that is followed by a compensating period of mortality deficit (i.e., fewer deaths than expected, because those people have died at a younger age) is quite common, and is also known as "harvesting". Mortality deficit in a particular time period can be caused by deaths displaced to an earlier time (due to harvesting by an event in the past) or deaths displaced to a future time (due to lives being saved, also called "avoided mortality").[1][2]
As opposed to number of registered fatalities of a certain death cause, such as a specific virus, a temporary excess mortality, and the mortality displacement, are measures that reflect many combined causes. The dominant reason may be events such as heat waves, cold spells, epidemics and pandemics (especially influenza pandemics), famine or war, and allows for estimates of the mortality caused by those events combined with other indirect health effects. Excess mortality is also studied for certain groups of people, such as elder, men, unemployed, etcetera.
"Excess deaths associated with covid-19 pandemic in 2020: age and sex disaggregated time series analysis in 29 high income countries"
Excess mortality during the Coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) – Our World in Data
^ "Weekly deaths – special data collection (demomwk)". Eurostat. 2020. Archived from the original on 20 October 2020. Retrieved 14 October 2020.
This page was last edited on 14 February 2023, at 01:19 (UTC).
"Excess mortality: the gold standard in measuring the impact of COVID-19 worldwide?"
^ Beaney, Thomas; Clarke, Jonathan M; Jain, Vageesh; Golestaneh, Amelia Kataria; Lyons, Gemma; Salman, David; Majeed, Azeem (2020). "Excess mortality: the gold standard in measuring the impact of COVID-19 worldwide?". Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine. 113 (9): 329–334. doi:10.1177/0141076820956802. ISSN 0141-0768. PMC 7488823. PMID 32910871.
Dushoff, Jonathan; Plotkin, Joshua B.; Viboud, Cecile; Earn, David J. D.; Simonsen, Lone (2006-01-15). "Mortality due to Influenza in the United States – An Annualized Regression Approach Using Multiple-Cause Mortality Data". American Journal of Epidemiology. 163 (2): 181–187. doi:10.1093/aje/kwj024. ISSN 0002-9262. PMID 16319291. Archived from the original on 2022-10-27. Retrieved 2020-05-17.
^ "Weekly deaths – special data collection". ec.europa.eu. Eurostat. Archived from the original on 2019-07-24. Retrieved 2023-01-16.
In epidemiology, the excess deaths or excess mortality is a measure of the increase in the number deaths during a time period and/or in a certain group, as compared to the expected value or statistical trend during a reference period (typically of five years) or in a reference population. It may typically be measured in percentage points, or in number of deaths per time unit.
^ Dushoff, Jonathan; Plotkin, Joshua B.; Viboud, Cecile; Earn, David J. D.; Simonsen, Lone (2006-01-15). "Mortality due to Influenza in the United States – An Annualized Regression Approach Using Multiple-Cause Mortality Data". American Journal of Epidemiology. 163 (2): 181–187. doi:10.1093/aje/kwj024. ISSN 0002-9262. PMID 16319291. Archived from the original on 2022-10-27. Retrieved 2020-05-17.
Different institutions and initiatives offer weekly data to monitor excess mortality. Significant efforts to capture short term mortality data have been made along 2020 due to the pandemic of the Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and its worldwide effects. Eurostat launched in April 2020 a collection of weekly death data that provide for most of the EU countries weekly death data series by 5-year age groups and sex in NUTS3 regions within the countries starting from the year 2000.[4] This temporary data collection was established in order to support the policy and research efforts related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Data are transmitted by the National Statistical Institutes on voluntary basis and it is being updated, depending on the country, weekly.[5]
"The Impact of Heat Waves and Cold Spells on Mortality Rates in the Dutch Population"
Suzy Khimm (January 27, 2011). "It's Alive! GOPers Resurrect 'Death Panels'". Mother Jones. Retrieved February 8, 2011.
"United States: Friend or foe?; The politics of health reform"
Lawrence, RG; ML Schafer (2012). "Debunking Sarah Palin: Mainstream news coverage of 'death panels'". Journalism. 13 (6): 766–782. doi:10.1177/1464884911431389. S2CID 145436837.
"Ep. 404 'Mother Mother Please!'". Soundcloud. Retrieved March 24, 2020.
Taranto Offers Up Weak Defense Of Palin's "Death Panel" Lie
"It's Not Just The Money: Cost Control In Cancer Care (Guest Opinion)"
^ "Texas hospital forced to set up 'death panel' as Covid-19 cases surge". The Guardian. July 26, 2020.
In a September 2009 speech, Palin said the term was "intended to sound a warning about the rationing that is sure to follow if big government tries to simultaneously increase health care coverage while also claiming to decrease costs."[68] In November 2009 Palin said that Obama was "incorrect" and "disingenuous" when he called the "death panel" charge "a lie, plain and simple."[69] In the National Review she said
^ a b c d Alec MacGillis (September 4, 2009). "In Wisconsin, A Pioneering Program; The Unwitting Birthplace of the 'Death Panel' Myth". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on November 11, 2012.
^ "Cancer, heart surgeries delayed as coronavirus alters care". Associated Press. April 20, 2021.
"Mike Huckabee: 'Death Panels' Will Grow From Stimulus-Planted Seeds". Huffington Post. March 10, 2011. Retrieved March 28, 2011.
^ Robinson JC (October 2010). "Comparative effectiveness research: from clinical information to economic incentives" (PDF). Health Aff (Millwood). 29 (10): 1788–95. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0605. PMID 20921477. S2CID 6015539.
^ Rob Brotherton (November 19, 2015). Suspicious Minds: Why We Believe Conspiracy Theories. Bloomsbury Publishing. p. 187. ISBN 978-1-4729-1564-1.
^ Nick Allen; Andrew Hough (August 16, 2010). "US breast cancer drug decision 'marks start of death panels'". The Daily Telegraph. London. Archived from the original on August 18, 2010. Retrieved December 17, 2010.
Paul Krugman (November 17, 2010). "Death Panels and Sales Taxes". The New York Times.
^ Ian Urbina (August 7, 2009). "Beyond Beltway, Health Debate Turns Hostile". The New York Times.
"Excerpts of Sarah Palin's Speech to Investors in Hong Kong"
Consultation payments were removed from the Senate version of the bill by the Senate Finance Committee.[1] Time wrote that "a single phrase—'death panels'—nearly derailed health care reform".[82] The Washington Post wrote that "President Obama's health-care initiative was nearly consumed by the furor" over the end-of-life care provision that would allow physician reimbursement for counseling.[37]
Bishop JP, Brothers KB, Perry JE, Ahmad A (January 2010). "Reviving the conversation around CPR/DNR". Am J Bioeth. 10 (1): 61–7. doi:10.1080/15265160903469328. PMID 20077345.
^ "AP Fact Check: No 'Death Panel' In Bill; Health Care Proposal Allows Medicare to Pay for Counseling on End-of-Life Issues". CBS News. Associated Press. August 11, 2009. Archived from the original on August 10, 2011. Retrieved April 18, 2011.
^ Paul Krugman (November 17, 2010). "Death Panels and Sales Taxes". The New York Times.
^ Zeytinoglu M (June 2011). "Talking it out: helping our patients live better while dying". Ann. Intern. Med. 154 (12): 830–2, W–300. doi:10.7326/0003-4819-154-12-201106210-00011. PMID 21690597. S2CID 31637435.
Geriatric psychiatrist Paul Kettl said his experience in a geriatric unit showed end-of-life discussions and reimbursements were "desperately needed" as these hour-long conversations are "ignored in the crush of medication and disease management."[56] In the Journal of the American Medical Association, Kettl wrote he was in favor of the "death panels that were originally proposed ... periodic discussions about advance directives that Medicare would pay for as medical visits."[56] Kettl noted that the attention-catching phrase "death panels" became "a lightning rod for objections to a series of ideas about health care besides" end-of-life discussions, and that somehow, "the concept of physicians being paid for time to talk with patients and their families about advance directives ... generated into the fear of decisions about life and death being controlled by the government."[56] Kettl also wrote that, "We can expect more good medical ideas to be destroyed by sound bites and needless concerns that will be exaggerated. It makes for good television, but bad medicine."[56]
^ Yes, Gov. Brewer, Arizona does have a death panel Arizona Republic December 9, 2010
"Palin stands by 'death panel' claim". USA Today. Associated Press. August 13, 2009. Archived from the original on November 29, 2010. Retrieved February 8, 2010.
Rich Lowry (November 17, 2009). "The Rogue, on the Record". National Review.
"Real Life Death Panels: As Sarah Palin continues to spread misinformation about Barack Obama's health-care plan, FP looks at where the real "death panels" are"
"Insight Forums: Dr. Brent J. Pawlecki". Archived from the original on July 13, 2011. Retrieved October 20, 2010.
Good Tidings and Great Joy: Protecting the Heart of Christmas
[t]o me, while reading that Section of the bill, it became so evident that there would be a panel of bureaucrats who would decide on levels of health care, decide on those who are worthy or not worthy of receiving some government-controlled coverage ... Since health care would have to be rationed if it were promised to everyone, it would therefore lead to harm for many individuals not able to receive the government care. That leads, of course, to death.[6][70]
"AP Fact Check: No 'Death Panel' In Bill; Health Care Proposal Allows Medicare to Pay for Counseling on End-of-Life Issues"
^ Peter Grier (August 21, 2009). "'Death panel' controversy remains very much alive; Even some conservatives call the issue bogus. Meanwhile, the healthcare debate shifts to 'rationing.'". The Christian Science Monitor.
^ "Atul Gawande on end-of-life counseling". Need to Know. February 8, 2011.6 and 9 minutes in. PBS. YouTube. Retrieved October 17, 2011.
^ Jim Dwyer (August 25, 2009). "Distortions on Health Bill, Homegrown". The New York Times. Retrieved April 28, 2011.
Koop, Chacour (July 24, 2020). "COVID-19 patients will be 'sent home to die' if deemed too sick, Texas county says". Fort Worth Star-Telegram. Retrieved August 30, 2022.
For 2009, "death panel" was named as PolitiFact's "Lie of the Year",[6] one of FactCheck's "whoppers",[7] and the most outrageous new term by the American Dialect Society.[8]
78% thought palliative care and end-of-life issues should be in the public discourse;
The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) published a statement in January 2011 advocating an individualized approach to treatment and supportive care for patients with advanced cancer. They stated that there is:[5]
Brian Klepper and David Kibbe (August 1, 2011). Rethinking The Value Of Medical Services Health Affairs. Accessed August 24, 2011.
^ Brian Klepper and David Kibbe (August 1, 2011). Rethinking The Value Of Medical Services Health Affairs. Accessed August 24, 2011.
Eric Schroeck Taranto Offers Up Weak Defense Of Palin's "Death Panel" Lie Media Matters February 3, 2011.
^ a b Corn BW (December 2009). "Ending end-of-life phobia – a prescription for enlightened health care reform". N. Engl. J. Med. 361 (27): e63. doi:10.1056/NEJMp0909740. PMID 20018960.
Jay Fitzgerald (March 25, 2010). "Democrats plan push on bank reform". Boston Herald. p. 24.
^ a b Jim Rutenberg (August 24, 2009). "Bioethicist Becomes a Lightning Rod for Criticism". The New York Times. Retrieved December 8, 2011.
Terry Irwin (December 21, 2009). "Gregg's concerns don't add up: On health care, he's just obstructionist". Concord Monitor. Retrieved September 10, 2011. Then Sen. Chuck Grassley endorsed the blatantly false 'death panel' charge, destroying any illusion of his bipartisanship.[permanent dead link]
^ Koop, Chacour (July 24, 2020). "COVID-19 patients will be 'sent home to die' if deemed too sick, Texas county says". Fort Worth Star-Telegram. Retrieved August 30, 2022.
Eugene Kiely; Dangelo Gore; Viveca Novak (December 23, 2010). "Let the distortions begin; A sneak preview of what to expect as 2012 comes into focus". FactCheck.org. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
"Death panel" is a political term that originated during the 2009 debate about federal health care legislation to cover the uninsured in the United States.[1] Sarah Palin, former governor of Alaska and 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate, coined the term when she charged that proposed legislation would create a "death panel" of bureaucrats who would carry out triage, i.e. decide whether Americans—such as her elderly parents, or children with Down syndrome—were "worthy of medical care".[2] Palin's claim has been referred to as the "death panel myth",[3] as nothing in any proposed legislation would have led to individuals being judged to see if they were worthy of health care.[4]
On August 12, 2009, Palin said "the elderly and ailing would be coerced into accepting minimal end-of-life care to reduce health care costs"[31][65] and charged on Twitter that Britain's National Health Service (NHS) was an evil "death panel", leading to so many replies from British citizens defending the NHS that Twitter crashed.[67] Stephen Hawking, who hadamyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), responded by saying "I wouldn't be alive today if it weren't for the NHS."[67]
^ "United States: Friend or foe?; The politics of health reform". The Economist. Vol. 392, no. 8644. August 15, 2009. p. 24.
^ Howard Kurtz (August 24, 2009). "Journalists, Left Out of The Debate; Few Americans Seem to Hear Health Care Facts". The Washington Post. p. C.1.
"Dr. Gawande on End-of-Life Issues, 'Death Panels'". On Point. January 5, 2011.
Meier DE, Casarett DJ, von Gunten CF, Smith WJ, Storey CP (February 2010). "Palliative medicine: politics and policy". J Palliat Med. 13 (2): 141–6. doi:10.1089/jpm.2010.9852. PMID 20043709.
Jay Newton-Small (December 9, 2010). "Palin in Progress: What Does She Want?". Time. Archived from the original on December 13, 2010. Retrieved April 9, 2011.
Jordan Fabian (December 22, 2009). "Sarah Palin: 'Death panels' may be in final healthcare reform bill". The Hill. Retrieved September 18, 2011.
America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 (PDF) Archived July 28, 2011, at the Wayback Machine Library of Congress. Retrieved November 19, 2010.
In his 2011 book, former governor of Arkansas Mike Huckabee wrote that the Federal Coordinating Council for Comparative Effectiveness from the 2009 stimulus were the seeds from which "the poisonous tree of death panels will grow."[129] Media Matters called this a "lie"; it reported that Huckabee mischaracterized the council and that it was eliminated in the 2010 health care reform.[130][131] Paul Van de Water of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said "Huckabee seems to be suggesting that we shouldn't do research to find out what medical procedures work best just because that research could conceivably be misused. The new law makes every effort to assure that won't happen."[130]
^ Jordan Fabian (December 22, 2009). "Sarah Palin: 'Death panels' may be in final healthcare reform bill". The Hill. Retrieved September 18, 2011.
"Transcript: Newt Gingrich and Howard Dean". This Week. ABC News. August 9, 2009. Archived from the original on March 26, 2012.
Peter Grier (August 21, 2009). "'Death panel' controversy remains very much alive; Even some conservatives call the issue bogus. Meanwhile, the healthcare debate shifts to 'rationing.'". The Christian Science Monitor.
^ Andrew Clark (December 6, 2009). "It's the way she tells them: Sarah Palin jokes with journalists". The Guardian. London. Retrieved October 15, 2010.
Robinson JC (October 2010). "Comparative effectiveness research: from clinical information to economic incentives" (PDF). Health Aff (Millwood). 29 (10): 1788–95. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0605. PMID 20921477. S2CID 6015539.
Tapper, Jake (August 7, 2009). "Palin Paints Picture of 'Obama Death Panel' Giving Thumbs Down to Trig". abcnews.com. ABC News. Archived from the original on February 8, 2011. Retrieved November 21, 2010.
Adam Berinsky (June 14, 2011). Rumors, truths, and reality: A study of political misinformation (draft version)
^ Adam Berinsky (June 14, 2011). Rumors, truths, and reality: A study of political misinformation (draft version)
Jim Dwyer (August 25, 2009). "Distortions on Health Bill, Homegrown". The New York Times. Retrieved April 28, 2011.
^ "New Studies in Palliative Care". The Diane Rehm Show. August 24, 2010.21 minutes in. NPR.
Jess Henig; with Lori Robertson (July 29, 2010). "False Euthanasia Claims". FactCheck.org.
^ Peter Baker (June 18, 2011). "Hip, Hip — if Not Hooray — for a Standstill Nation". The New York Times.
Jason Beattie (August 14, 2009). "NHS receives [sic] battle cry from PM after attack from right-wing Americans". Mirror News. Retrieved August 24, 2013.
A study by Regina G. Lawrence, a communications professor, and Matthew L. Schafer, a Juris Doctor candidate, found that "the mainstream news, particularly newspapers, debunked 'death panels' early, fairly often", however, some journalists presented information in a he said/she said style, often confusing readers, and most did not include an explanation as to why the charge was false.[99] Lawrence and Schafer said that "the dilemma for reporters playing by the rules of procedural objectivity is that repeating a claim reinforces a sense of its validity—or at least, enshrines its place as an important topic of public debate. Moreover, there is no clear evidence that journalism can correct misinformation once it has been widely publicized. Indeed, it didn't seem to correct the death panels misinformation in our study."[99]
^ Joseph Shapiro (November 16, 2010). "Intrepid Reporter Faces, Survives 'Death Panel'". NPR's Heath Blogs. National Public Radio.
^ Susan Dentzer (October 2010). "Comparative Effectiveness: Coherent Health Care At Last?". Health Aff (Millwood). 29 (10): 1756. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0900. PMID 20921471.
Jill Lepore (November 30, 2009). "The Politics of Death". The New Yorker. Vol. 85, no. 39. pp. 60–7. Retrieved December 7, 2011.
Critics of the United Kingdom's handling of certain medical cases, such as the cases of Charlie Gard (2017) and Alfie Evans (2018), have used the term "death panel" to describe those who made the decision to pull life support.[132][133]
^ a b c d "McCaughey claims end-of-life counseling will be required for Medicare patients". PolitiFact. St. Petersburg Times. July 23, 2009. Retrieved April 28, 2011.
Michael F. Cannon (August 19, 2009). "Sorry Folks, Sarah Palin Is (Partly) Right". The Detroit Free Press. reprinted by the Cato Institute. Retrieved December 7, 2010.
In late December 2010, it was reported that a new Medicare regulation had been approved that would pay for end-of-life care consultations during annual physical exams. The regulation was to be effective January 1, 2011,[19] but was deleted on January 4 for political reasons.[45]
^ Newt Gingrich (July 2, 2009). "Health Care Rx: Across the Country, Some Systems Are Getting It Right". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on May 12, 2011.
^ "The Year In Lies". All Things Considered. NPR. December 18, 2009. Retrieved November 19, 2010.
Jim Rutenberg; Jackie Calmes (August 13, 2010). "False 'Death Panel' Rumor Has Some Familiar Roots". The New York Times.
"Presidents and health reform: from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Barack Obama"
^ Christi Parsons (August 10, 2009). "Democrats take sterner line against health care misinformation". The Oklahoman. McClatchy - Tribune News Service. Retrieved December 3, 2011.
^ Uwe Reinhardt (August 17, 2009). "End-of-Life Care: Addendum". The New York Times. Archived from the original on July 14, 2011. Retrieved February 22, 2011.
The Daily Telegraph noted that some critics of the U.S. reform used the United Kingdom's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE)—"as an example of [doing] the sort of drug rationing that amounted to a 'death panel'". NICE, as one of its functions, uses cost-effectiveness analysis to determine whether new treatments and drugs should be available to those covered by Britain's National Health Service.[51] The Sunday Times wrote that Sarah Palin's use of the "death panels" term was a reference to NICE.[52]
"Journalists, Left Out of The Debate; Few Americans Seem to Hear Health Care Facts"
"Whoppers of 2009—We review the choicest falsehoods from a year that kept us busy"
"Back in Iowa, Grassley Is the Talk of the Town Halls"
^ Frum, David (March 21, 2010). "Waterloo". FrumForum. Archived from the original on March 6, 2018. Retrieved March 10, 2018.
^ Susan Davis (December 22, 2009). "Palin's 'Death Panels' Charge Named 'Lie of the Year'". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved August 5, 2010.
"Sarah Palin: 'Death panels' may be in final healthcare reform bill"
"The Year In Lies". All Things Considered. NPR. December 18, 2009. Retrieved November 19, 2010.
^ a b Mike Huckabee's Latest Lie: "Death Panels" Media Matters March 9, 2011. Accessed April 1, 2011.
Howard Kurtz (August 24, 2009). "Journalists, Left Out of The Debate; Few Americans Seem to Hear Health Care Facts". The Washington Post. p. C.1.
"Ex-pol goes for the jugular. Former Lt. Gov. McCaughey leads 'death panel' charge"
^ Jill Burcum (November 2, 2011). "Short take: Health care spending". Star Tribune. Archived from the original on November 4, 2011. Retrieved November 5, 2011.
Brendan Nyhan, a health care policy analyst and assistant professor at Dartmouth College, wrote that "Obama's plan might lead to more restrictive rationing than already occurs under the current health care system", but criticized Palin's statements as largely "unjustified and false".[3] Nyhan also said that labeling institutions "death panels" for denying "coverage at a system level for specific treatments or drugs" was an attempt to "move the goalposts of the debate."[106]
"Healthcare rationing: Real scary; Concerns about government bureaucracies gaining oversight of your treatment are not misplaced. We need reforms, but the answer is not central planning"
^ Catherine Godbey (August 30, 2009). "Death panels or end-of-life care? Hospice of the Valley weighs in on issue". The Decatur Daily. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011.
In response to legislation in Arizona which cut Medicaid funding for previously approved transplants,[111] E.J. Montini of The Arizona Republic used the term,[112] as did Keith Olbermann of MSNBC.[113] Montini referred to Republican Governor Jan Brewer as "Governor Grim Reaper" and both Brewer and the Republican-controlled legislature as a "death panel".[114] An editorial by USA Today said, "to the extent that death panels of a sort do exist, they're composed of state officials who must decide whether each state's version of Medicaid will cover certain expensive, potentially life-saving treatments."[115]
In September 2010, six months after the passage of the Affordable Care Act, a BBC article stated that among the "sticky charges" that had stuck against the bill was the false charge of "government 'death panels' deciding who can get what sort of care".[86] A survey by the Regence Foundation and National Journal released in 2011 showed 40% of Americans knew that the "death panels" were not in the Affordable Care Act, while 23% said they thought the law allowed government to make end-of-life care decisions on behalf of seniors, and 36% said they did not know.[87]
Alec MacGillis (September 4, 2009). "In Wisconsin, A Pioneering Program; The Unwitting Birthplace of the 'Death Panel' Myth". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on November 11, 2012.
^ Abby Goodnough (October 18, 2011). "Candidate's Fighting Words Draw G.O.P.'s Fire". The New York Times.
^ Ezra Klein (August 10, 2009). "Is the Government Going to Euthanize your Grandmother? An Interview With Sen. Johnny Isakson". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on March 28, 2011. Retrieved March 26, 2022.
^ BBC News staff (August 12, 2009). "Bloggers debate British healthcare". BBC News. Retrieved October 15, 2010.
"Sarah Palin falsely claims Barack Obama runs a 'death panel'". PolitiFact. August 10, 2009.
In December 2009 Palin warned on Twitter that a merged health care bill could have the "death panels" restored.[72] Palin used the term jokingly while speaking at the 2009 Gridiron Club dinner for journalists, saying it was like being in front of a "death panel".[73]
^ Perry Bacon (August 15, 2009). "Back in Iowa, Grassley Is the Talk of the Town Halls". The Washington Post.
^ a b c .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Christi Parsons; Andrew Zajac (August 14, 2009). "Senate committee scraps healthcare provision that gave rise to 'death panel' claims; Though the claims are widely discredited, the Senate Finance Committee is withdrawing from its bill the inclusion of advance care planning consultations, calling them too confusing". Los Angeles Times.
Glenn Kessler (June 24, 2011) Are Medicare patients 'going to die' under Obama's health law? The Washington Post. Accessed June 28, 2011.
Ian Urbina (August 7, 2009). "Beyond Beltway, Health Debate Turns Hostile". The New York Times.
Robert Farley (August 13, 2009). "Palin claims Obama misled when he said end-of-life counseling is voluntary". St. Petersburg Times.
^ Rick Ungar (June 24, 2011) GOP Returns To 'Death Panels' Narrative In Desperate Effort To Change The Medicare Story Forbes. Accessed June 28, 2011.
In 2018 Democratic socialist New York congressional candidate (later U. S. Representative) Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said on Twitter, "Actually, we have for-profit 'death panels' now: they are companies + boards saying you're on your own bc they won't cover a critical procedure or medicine, Maybe if the GOP stopped hiding behind this 'socialist' rock they love to throw, they'd actually engage on-issue for once."[134]
Alan B. Goldberg; Katie N. Thomson (November 16, 2009). "Sarah Palin: I Want to Play a Major Role in National Politics, 'If People Will Have Me' Former Alaska Gov. Tells Barbara Walters President Obama is "Incorrect" and "Disingenuous" on "Death Panels"". ABC News. Retrieved December 20, 2009.
^ Clinton Thomas (August 30, 2009). "Four small words, so much controversy". St. Joseph News-Press.
Jon Meacham (September 12, 2009). "I Was a Teenage Death Panelist". Newsweek. 154 (12): 8. PMID 19806816.
Oakeshott, Isabel, Hospitals to be told to make patients happy[dead link], Sunday Times, September 13, 2009
Peter Baker (June 18, 2011). "Hip, Hip — if Not Hooray — for a Standstill Nation". The New York Times.
"Death panels or end-of-life care? Hospice of the Valley weighs in on issue"
^ Bishop JP, Brothers KB, Perry JE, Ahmad A (January 2010). "Reviving the conversation around CPR/DNR". Am J Bioeth. 10 (1): 61–7. doi:10.1080/15265160903469328. PMID 20077345.
"In Wisconsin, A Pioneering Program; The Unwitting Birthplace of the 'Death Panel' Myth"
Are Medicare patients 'going to die' under Obama's health law?
Michael Scherer (March 4, 2010). "The White House Scrambles to Tame the News Cyclone". Time. Archived from the original on March 7, 2010. Retrieved November 21, 2010.
"Let the distortions begin; A sneak preview of what to expect as 2012 comes into focus"
^ Earl Blumenauer (November 14, 2009). "My Near Death Panel Experience". The New York Times.
^ Joel Connelly (September 9, 2009). "Obama fights fear in Wednesday health care speech". Seattlepi.com. Retrieved December 1, 2011.
Robert Pear (December 25, 2010). "Obama Returns to End-of-Life Plan That Caused Stir". The New York Times.
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Government Printing Office. p. 747. Accessed April 1, 2011.
Abby Goodnough (October 18, 2011). "Candidate's Fighting Words Draw G.O.P.'s Fire". The New York Times.
Newt Gingrich (July 2, 2009). "Health Care Rx: Across the Country, Some Systems Are Getting It Right". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on May 12, 2011.
"Trump Seizes Moral High Ground in Charlie Gard Case - Rasmussen Reports®". m.rasmussenreports.com. Retrieved February 11, 2020.
^ a b c d e f g Angie Drobnic Holan (December 19, 2009). "PolitiFact's Lie of the Year: 'Death panels'". PolitiFact. Retrieved November 19, 2010.
"Palin claims Obama misled when he said end-of-life counseling is voluntary"
4Reaction											Toggle Reaction subsection																					4.1Media																											4.2Physicians																											4.3Politicians																											4.4Palin response																											4.5Supporters
Jonathan Oberlander (June 2010). "Long time coming: why health reform finally passed". Health Aff (Millwood). 29 (6): 1112–6. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0447. PMID 20530339. The administration ... was seemingly unprepared for the intense opposition and fury that erupted during town-hall meetings in the summer of 2009. The Democrats' focus group–tested mantra of 'quality, affordable health care' was drowned out by Republicans' false warnings of 'death panels' and a 'government takeover'
Brendan Nyhan. Continuing efforts to justify false "death panels" claim August 17, 2010. Accessed January 15, 2011.
Uwe Reinhardt (September 24, 2010). "The Perennial Quest to Lower Health Care Spending". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 14, 2011. Retrieved February 6, 2011.
Uwe Reinhardt (August 17, 2009). "End-of-Life Care: Addendum". The New York Times. Archived from the original on July 14, 2011. Retrieved February 22, 2011.
"Our view on health care: Nonsense about 'death panels' springs back to life"
^ Jay Fitzgerald (March 25, 2010). "Democrats plan push on bank reform". Boston Herald. p. 24.
^ Newt Gingrich (August 16, 2009). "Healthcare rationing: Real scary; Concerns about government bureaucracies gaining oversight of your treatment are not misplaced. We need reforms, but the answer is not central planning". Los Angeles Times.
^ a b Suzy Khimm (January 27, 2011). "It's Alive! GOPers Resurrect 'Death Panels'". Mother Jones. Retrieved February 8, 2011.
^ a b c Rich Lowry (November 17, 2009). "The Rogue, on the Record". National Review.
^ "Ep. 404 'Mother Mother Please!'". Soundcloud. Retrieved March 24, 2020.
"American Society of Clinical Oncology Statement: Toward Individualized Care for Patients With Advanced Cancer"
Palin expanded her "death panel" attack to target the precursor of the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), a potential cost-cutting mechanism for Medicare, in September 2009.[116][117] After the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform released its recommendation to strengthen the IPAB, which had passed as part of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), she later charged that the board was " 'death panel'-like".[118] FactCheck found her characterization of the board wrong on three counts.[119] Representative Phil Roe (Republican-Tennessee), who has twice sponsored bills to eliminate the IPAB, said he would associate the term with the IPAB.[116] Roe was described by The Washington Post as "a kindred soul by the medical industry" in part for his legislative efforts against the IPAB and a "magnet during the last election for more than $90,000 in contributions from medical professionals from across the country".[120][121] Rep. Phil Gingrey (Republican-Georgia), an OB/GYN, issued a statement, described by PolitiFact as outrageous,[122] that was in line with the "death panels" narrative.[123][124]
"NHS receives [sic] battle cry from PM after attack from right-wing Americans"
Earl Blumenauer (November 14, 2009). "My Near Death Panel Experience". The New York Times.
"Texas hospital forced to set up 'death panel' as Covid-19 cases surge"
FactCheck staff (December 24, 2009). "Whoppers of 2009—We review the choicest falsehoods from a year that kept us busy". FactCheck. University of Pennsylvania: Annenberg Public Policy Center. Retrieved April 28, 2011.
Ezra Klein (August 10, 2009). "Is the Government Going to Euthanize your Grandmother? An Interview With Sen. Johnny Isakson". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on March 28, 2011. Retrieved March 26, 2022.
^ Glenn Kessler (June 24, 2011) Are Medicare patients 'going to die' under Obama's health law? The Washington Post. Accessed June 28, 2011.
"In brief: Wire reports". The Herald. The McClatchy Company. August 8, 2009. Former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin called President Barack Obama's health plan "downright evil" Friday in her first online comments since leaving office, saying in a Facebook posting that he would create a "death panel" that would deny care to the neediest Americans.
^ a b "Rachel Maddow says Republicans Chuck Grassley, John Boehner and John Mica flip-flopped on end-of-life counseling". PolitiFact.com. August 14, 2009. Retrieved October 28, 2011.
PolitiFact gave Palin's claim its lowest rating—"Pants on Fire!"—on August 10[4] and on December 19 it was named "Lie of the Year" for 2009.[6][95][96] "Death panel" was named the most outrageous term of 2009 by the American Dialect Society.[8] The definition was given as "A supposed committee of doctors and/or bureaucrats who would decide which patients were allowed to receive treatment, ostensibly leaving the rest to die".[8][97] FactCheck called it one of the "whoppers" of 2009.[7]
Rob Brotherton (November 19, 2015). Suspicious Minds: Why We Believe Conspiracy Theories. Bloomsbury Publishing. p. 187. ISBN 978-1-4729-1564-1.
"Atul Gawande on end-of-life counseling". Need to Know. February 8, 2011.6 and 9 minutes in. PBS. YouTube. Retrieved October 17, 2011.
^ a b Robert Farley (August 13, 2009). "Palin claims Obama misled when he said end-of-life counseling is voluntary". St. Petersburg Times.
John Gramlich (March 29, 2011). "Brewer reconsiders organ transplants". McClatchy - Tribune Business News. Democrats have painted the action by the majority Republican Legislature as an unconscionable budget decision, and one local columnist, E.J. Montini of The Arizona Republic, has repeatedly taken state leaders to task in his columns. Montini refers to Republican Governor Jan Brewer as 'Governor Grim Reaper' while blasting the Legislature as a 'death panel,' leading to complaints from elected officials.
Mike Huckabee's Latest Lie: "Death Panels" Media Matters March 9, 2011. Accessed April 1, 2011.
"Actually, we have for-profit "death panels" now: they are companies + boards saying you're on your own bc they won't cover a critical procedure or medicine. Maybe if the GOP stopped hiding behind this "socialist" rock they love to throw, they'd actually engage on-issue for once"
^ Lisa Demer (August 12, 2009). "Murkowski: Don't tell lies about health bill; Some things in the legislation are already bad enough, she says at civic center". Anchorage Daily News. p. A.1. Archived from the original on September 21, 2010.
^ Palin, Sarah, Why I Support the Ryan Roadmap, The Wall Street Journal, December 10, 2010.
"Sarah Palin falsely claims Barack Obama runs a 'death panel'"
Alex Frangos; Tatiana Lau (September 23, 2009). "Excerpts of Sarah Palin's Speech to Investors in Hong Kong". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved December 16, 2010.
^ Terry Irwin (December 21, 2009). "Gregg's concerns don't add up: On health care, he's just obstructionist". Concord Monitor. Retrieved September 10, 2011. Then Sen. Chuck Grassley endorsed the blatantly false 'death panel' charge, destroying any illusion of his bipartisanship.[permanent dead link]
^ USA Today (January 6, 2011). "Our view on health care: Nonsense about 'death panels' springs back to life". USA Today. Retrieved April 1, 2011.
Nagia, Aditi; Michael Wilkerson (September 9, 2009). "Real Life Death Panels: As Sarah Palin continues to spread misinformation about Barack Obama's health-care plan, FP looks at where the real "death panels" are". Foreign Policy.
^ "Debt Deal?". Finance Wire. FDCH/eMedia. July 15, 2011. © Fox News Network.
Later that month, after the Affordable Care Act as amended by the Senate passed the House, conservative commentator David Frum made a widely-read post to his blog criticizing Republicans for their steadfast opposition to the bill over the previous year and a half. There had been congressional Republicans willing to work with Democrats, he said, but they had refrained from doing so out of fear of political reprisals from the Tea Party and other elements of the conservative base that had been regularly encouraged by talk radio and Fox News to believe the worst of the bill. "How do you negotiate with somebody who wants to murder your grandmother? Or—more exactly—with somebody whom your voters have been persuaded to believe wants to murder their grandmother?" he asked, alluding to the alleged death panels.[127]
"COVID-19 patients will be 'sent home to die' if deemed too sick, Texas county says"
Brent J. Pawlecki, a corporate medical director, said the phrases "death panels" and "killing Grandma" were "used to fuel the flames of fear and opposition".[102][103] Gail Wilensky, a health adviser to President George H.W. Bush and John McCain who has overseen Medicare and Medicaid, said the charge was untrue and upsetting, adding that "[t]here are serious questions that are associated with policy aspects of the health care reform bills that we're seeing ... And there's frustration because so much of the discussion is around issues like the death panels and Ezekiel Emanuel that I think are red herrings at best."[6][104] Susan Dentzer, editor of Health Affairs, said Congress' approval of $1.1 billion for comparative effectiveness research in the 2009 stimulus contributed to fear the research would "lead to government rationing" which "fueled the 'death panels' fury of summer 2009."[105]
^ a b Uwe Reinhardt (September 24, 2010). "The Perennial Quest to Lower Health Care Spending". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 14, 2011. Retrieved February 6, 2011.
^ "Transcript: Newt Gingrich and Howard Dean". This Week. ABC News. August 9, 2009. Archived from the original on March 26, 2012.
^ Scripko PD, Greer DM (January 2010). "Practical considerations for reviving the CPR/DNR conversation". Am J Bioeth. 10 (1): 74–5. doi:10.1080/15265160903460889. PMID 20077349. S2CID 13457030.
^ a b c d Kettl P (April 2010). "One Vote for Death Panels". JAMA. 303 (13): 1234–5. doi:10.1001/jama.2010.376. PMID 20371773.
70% agreed with the idea that "It is more important to enhance the quality of life for seriously ill patients, even if it means a shorter life" while 23% placed more importance on extending life through any possible medical treatment;
"Texas hospital forced to set up 'death panel' as Covid-19 cases surge". The Guardian. July 26, 2020.
The Economist said the phrase was used as an "outrageous allegation" to confront politicians at town hall meetings during the August 2009 congressional recess.[46] The New York Times said the term became a standard slogan among many conservatives opposed to the Obama administration's health care overhaul.[27] Former Newsweek editor Jon Meacham said it was "a lie crafted to foment opposition to the president's push for reform"[47] and Fox News analyst Juan Williams said "of course there is no such thing as any death panel."[48] The Christian Science Monitor reported that some Republicans used the term as a "jumping-off point" to discuss government rationing of health care services, while some liberal groups applied the term to private health insurance companies.[49] Journalist Paul Waldman of The American Prospect called the "death panel" charge a consequential policy lie, a falsehood about a policy that had definite effects on the policy, a type of lie that is not as condemned in the media as personal lies.[50]
^ Michelle Goldberg (August 4, 2009). "The Health-Care Lie Machine". The Daily Beast. Retrieved December 28, 2010.
^ Oakeshott, Isabel, Hospitals to be told to make patients happy[dead link], Sunday Times, September 13, 2009
Atul Gawande, a physician who writes on health care topics for The New Yorker, said "that the whole death panel reduction and reaction to it" temporarily "shut down our ability to even have a national discussion about how to have the right [end-of-life] conversation" between doctors and patients.[88]
^ Jess Henig; with Lori Robertson (July 29, 2010). "False Euthanasia Claims". FactCheck.org.
^ Meier DE, Casarett DJ, von Gunten CF, Smith WJ, Storey CP (February 2010). "Palliative medicine: politics and policy". J Palliat Med. 13 (2): 141–6. doi:10.1089/jpm.2010.9852. PMID 20043709.
^ a b c d e f g h Brendan Nyhan (2010). "Why the "Death Panel" Myth Wouldn't Die: Misinformation in the Health Care Reform Debate" (PDF). The Forum. Berkeley Electronic Press. 8 (1). CiteSeerX 10.1.1.692.9614. doi:10.2202/1540-8884.1354. S2CID 144075499.
Benjamin W. Corn, a cancer specialist, wrote in the New England Journal of Medicine that the "death panels" controversy showed Americans were uneasy discussing topics related to the dying process. Corn said the end-of-life care conversations can have an important positive effect on patients, although some patients may not ever welcome them. Corn also said that certain issues, such as whether experimental therapies should be reimbursed, the possible expansion of hospices, restoring dignity to the process of dying, and guidelines for physician assisted suicide, need to be addressed directly.[26] David Kibbe, a physician, and Brian Klepper, a health care analyst and consultant, wrote, "One of American politics' most disingenuous conceits is that health care must cost what we currently pay. Another is that the only way to make it cost less is to deny care. It has been in industry executives' financial interests to perpetuate these myths".[57]
Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) stated that "death panels" were a baseless charge that unnecessarily incited fear and detracted from real problems in the proposed legislation. She said the proposed legislation was "bad enough that we don't need to be making things up."[58] Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA), thought there was illogical confusion over "death panels"; he said advance directives put "authority in the individual rather than the government."[59] In July 2010 Rep. Bob Inglis, (R-SC) said that he thought it was counterproductive for the conservative movement for some to promote misinformation about death panels when they do not exist.[60] Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) endorsed Rep. Charles Boustany's statement that "medical panels of people who care about what's best for their patients ... is good science and good medicine."[61] Speaking for himself, Issa said "Republicans have to step back from the words 'death panels'."[61] Michael F. Cannon, a former domestic policy analyst for the U.S. Senate Republican Policy Committee and a member of the Cato Institute, wrote that "[p]aying doctors to help seniors sort out their preferences for end-of-life care is consumer-directed rationing, not bureaucratic rationing."[62]
^ "Political Lies and the Press". On the Media. October 15, 2010. NPR. WNYC. Archived from the original on October 19, 2010.
^ America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 (PDF) Archived July 28, 2011, at the Wayback Machine Library of Congress. Retrieved November 19, 2010.
^ a b Bishop JP, Brothers KB, Perry JE, Ahmad A (January 2010). "Finite knowledge/finite power: 'death panels' and the limits of medicine". Am J Bioeth. 10 (1): W7–9. doi:10.1080/15265160903493070. PMID 20077324. S2CID 36810889.
^ Alec MacGillis (October 17, 2011). "Newt's Personal Hypocrisy on 'Death Panels'". The New Republic. Retrieved October 23, 2011.
^ Tommy Christopher (January 11, 2011). "The 'New Tone' in Action: Keith Olbermann Forswears 'Death Panel' in Arizona Transplant Segment". Mediaite. Retrieved October 10, 2011.
Christi Parsons (August 10, 2009). "Democrats take sterner line against health care misinformation". The Oklahoman. McClatchy - Tribune News Service. Retrieved December 3, 2011.
Jim Rutenberg; Gardiner Harris (September 2, 2009). "Conservatives See Need for Serious Health Debate". The New York Times.
"Epistemic closure and political disinformation". The Economist. May 5, 2010. Retrieved April 6, 2011.
GOP Returns To 'Death Panels' Narrative In Desperate Effort To Change The Medicare Story
Richard Mial (August 13, 2009). "A momentary lapse in necessary skepticism". McClatchy - Tribune Business News.
^ Eric Schroeck Taranto Offers Up Weak Defense Of Palin's "Death Panel" Lie Media Matters February 3, 2011.
Atul Gawande (August 2, 2010). "Letting Go: What should medicine do when it can't save your life?". The New Yorker.
^ Jill Lepore (November 30, 2009). "The Politics of Death". The New Yorker. Vol. 85, no. 39. pp. 60–7. Retrieved December 7, 2011.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, the podcast Chapo Trap House often referred to the lack of hospital space in countries heavily afflicted by the crisis as having death panels.[136] On the same day the referenced Chapo episode released (March 23, 2020), an article from The New York Times opinions section came out titled "Here Come The Death Panels" by Michelle Goldberg.[137] This piece refers to the "lie" shared by Palin in 2009 and makes an opposing case about hospital patients in the United States not getting certain procedures they need depending on their condition.[138] Two days later on March 25; the podcast Intercepted from The Intercept and Jeremy Scahill released an episode titled "Capitalist Death Panels: If Corporate Vultures Get Their Way, We'll Be Dead".[139] On July 23, it was reported that, due to insufficient hospital capacity, Starr County, Texas would be forced to adopt "critical care guidelines", wherein critically ill patients would be "sent home to die"; the move was criticized as the creation of a "real death panel".[140][141]
Susan Dentzer (October 2010). "Comparative Effectiveness: Coherent Health Care At Last?". Health Aff (Millwood). 29 (10): 1756. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0900. PMID 20921471.
Kathy Keily; Mimi Hall (August 18, 2009). "End-of-life counseling started with bipartisan support". USA Today. p. A.4.
^ Jon Meacham (September 12, 2009). "I Was a Teenage Death Panelist". Newsweek. 154 (12): 8. PMID 19806816.
"Trump Seizes Moral High Ground in Charlie Gard Case - Rasmussen Reports®"
^ @AOC (December 2, 2018). "Actually, we have for-profit "death panels" now: they are companies + boards saying you're on your own bc they won't cover a critical procedure or medicine. Maybe if the GOP stopped hiding behind this "socialist" rock they love to throw, they'd actually engage on-issue for once" (Tweet) – via Twitter.
Tommy Christopher (January 11, 2011). "The 'New Tone' in Action: Keith Olbermann Forswears 'Death Panel' in Arizona Transplant Segment". Mediaite. Retrieved October 10, 2011.
"Rachel Maddow says Republicans Chuck Grassley, John Boehner and John Mica flip-flopped on end-of-life counseling". PolitiFact.com. August 14, 2009. Retrieved October 28, 2011.
Mark Leibovich (September 12, 2010). "The Wish for a Conservative Dream Duo". The New York Times.
93% thought those decisions should be a top priority in the U.S. health care system;
James A. Morone (June 2010). "Presidents and health reform: from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Barack Obama". Health Aff (Millwood). 29 (6): 1096–100. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0420. PMID 20530336.
^ Brendan Nyhan. Continuing efforts to justify false "death panels" claim August 17, 2010. Accessed January 15, 2011.
She explained that the term should not be taken literally, likening it to when President Ronald Reagan called the Soviet Union the "Evil Empire".[70] "He got his point across. He got people thinking and researching what he was talking about. It was quite effective. Same thing with the 'death panels'."[70] Media Matters stated that Palin's claim of "death panels" was "simply false, regardless of whether she meant it literally or figuratively."[71]
"Is the Government Going to Euthanize your Grandmother? An Interview With Sen. Johnny Isakson"
Clinton Thomas (August 30, 2009). "Four small words, so much controversy". St. Joseph News-Press.
"Why the "Death Panel" Myth Wouldn't Die: Misinformation in the Health Care Reform Debate"
"Sarah Palin: I Want to Play a Major Role in National Politics, 'If People Will Have Me' Former Alaska Gov. Tells Barbara Walters President Obama is "Incorrect" and "Disingenuous" on "Death Panels""
Betsy McCaughey (July 24, 2009). "DEADLY DOCTORS – O ADVISERS WANT TO RATION CARE". The New York Post. Archived from the original (Opinion) on December 14, 2011. Retrieved March 26, 2011.
^ Alex Frangos; Tatiana Lau (September 23, 2009). "Excerpts of Sarah Palin's Speech to Investors in Hong Kong". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved December 16, 2010.
^ Christopher Condon (October 25, 2010). "Frank Says 'Death Panels' Await Failing Banks Under Law Bearing His Name". Bloomberg. Retrieved November 4, 2010.
"United States: Friend or foe?; The politics of health reform". The Economist. Vol. 392, no. 8644. August 15, 2009. p. 24.
^ a b c Ceci Connolly (August 1, 2009). "Proposed Counseling for Seniors in Health Plan Spurs New Battle". The Washington Post. p. A.1.
^ Sarah Palin (August 7, 2009). "Statement on the Current Health Care Debate". Facebook. Retrieved March 25, 2011.
Michelle Goldberg (August 4, 2009). "The Health-Care Lie Machine". The Daily Beast. Retrieved December 28, 2010.
In November 2010, Paul Krugman said he was deliberately provocative on This Week, calling for "death panels and sales taxes" to fix the budget deficit. Krugman clarified that "health care costs will have to be controlled, which will surely require having Medicare and Medicaid decide what they're willing to pay for—not really death panels, of course, but consideration of medical effectiveness and, at some point, how much we're willing to spend for extreme care."[128]
Justin Bank (August 14, 2009). "Palin vs. Obama: Death Panels". FactCheck. Annenberg Public Policy Center. Archived from the original on October 17, 2011. Retrieved June 23, 2011.
C. Porter Storey Jr. said the term represents fear that due to financial pressure "some mechanical, governmental method will be used to determine how much of our scarce health care resources will be applied to their situation."[53] Atul Gawande, a surgeon and writer, said that fear of missing out on an expensive life-extending treatment is behind the phrase, but he thought that framing the issue in this way was completely mistaken. "[T]he trouble is not whether we're going to offer a $100,000 drug to help someone get 3 or 4 months"; our big trouble is that patients receive a $100,000 drug that not only yields no benefit—it also causes major side effects that shortens their lives", he said.[54] Gawande said doctor's schedules of 20 minute appointments, a lack of payments and the emotional difficulty of conversations about mortality were barriers to the doctor-patient discussions about end-of-life care issues, which can take about an hour.[55]
Sarah Palin (August 7, 2009). "Statement on the Current Health Care Debate". Facebook. Retrieved March 25, 2011.
^ a b c Charles E. Carson (2010). "Among the new words" (PDF). American Speech. American Dialect Society. 85 (3): 352–65. doi:10.1215/00031283-2010-020.
In March 2010, Democratic Rep. Barney Frank (MA) was quoted as saying "There are going to be death panels enacted by the Congress this year, but they're death panels for large financial institutions"[125] and later in the same year he used the term in reference to authority under the Dodd–Frank Bill.[126]
Perry Bacon (August 15, 2009). "Back in Iowa, Grassley Is the Talk of the Town Halls". The Washington Post.
^ a b Matthew DoBias (March 8, 2011). "No Death Panels, Please, But Poll Shows Americans Can Handle End-of-Life Chat". National Journal. Retrieved March 10, 2011.
When investigating for his article "Letting Go", Gawande was asked to refrain from writing about palliative care by physicians who were concerned the article might be manipulated to create another political controversy—and as a result, hurt their profession.[89][90] Professor Harold Pollack wrote that given the "anxieties captured in the crystalline phrase 'death panel,' I would not commence a national cost-control discussion within the frightening and divisive arena of end-of-life care."[91]
"No Death Panels, Please, But Poll Shows Americans Can Handle End-of-Life Chat"
^ a b FactCheck staff (December 24, 2009). "Whoppers of 2009—We review the choicest falsehoods from a year that kept us busy". FactCheck. University of Pennsylvania: Annenberg Public Policy Center. Retrieved April 28, 2011.
Robert Pear (January 4, 2011). "U.S. Alters Rule on Paying for End-of-Life Planning". The New York Times.
^ Atul Gawande (August 2, 2010). "Letting Go: What should medicine do when it can't save your life?". The New Yorker.
"'Tweet' 2009 Word of the Year, 'Google' Word of the Decade, as voted by American Dialect Society" (PDF). American Dialect Society. January 8, 2010. Retrieved October 8, 2010.
"The 'New Tone' in Action: Keith Olbermann Forswears 'Death Panel' in Arizona Transplant Segment"
"Two Years Later: The Media Response to Death Panels and Why It's Still Important"
^ George J. Annas (2010). Worst case bioethics: death, disaster, and public health. Oxford University Press. pp. 12–4. ISBN 978-0-19-539173-2.
"'Tweet' 2009 Word of the Year, 'Google' Word of the Decade, as voted by American Dialect Society"
^ Betsy McCaughey (July 24, 2009). "DEADLY DOCTORS – O ADVISERS WANT TO RATION CARE". The New York Post. Archived from the original (Opinion) on December 14, 2011. Retrieved March 26, 2011.
^ a b c d Robert Pear (December 25, 2010). "Obama Returns to End-of-Life Plan That Caused Stir". The New York Times.
Nick Allen; Andrew Hough (August 16, 2010). "US breast cancer drug decision 'marks start of death panels'". The Daily Telegraph. London. Archived from the original on August 18, 2010. Retrieved December 17, 2010.
^ John Gramlich (March 29, 2011). "Brewer reconsiders organ transplants". McClatchy - Tribune Business News. Democrats have painted the action by the majority Republican Legislature as an unconscionable budget decision, and one local columnist, E.J. Montini of The Arizona Republic, has repeatedly taken state leaders to task in his columns. Montini refers to Republican Governor Jan Brewer as 'Governor Grim Reaper' while blasting the Legislature as a 'death panel,' leading to complaints from elected officials.
Rick Ungar (June 24, 2011) GOP Returns To 'Death Panels' Narrative In Desperate Effort To Change The Medicare Story Forbes. Accessed June 28, 2011.
^ Katie Connolly (September 22, 2010). "Why healthcare reform has been a tough sell". BBC News. Retrieved November 24, 2010.
^ "Gingrey claims federal health care board can decide if you get dialysis, chemo". PolitiFact.com. August 2, 2011. Retrieved August 2, 2011.
"McCaughey claims end-of-life counseling will be required for Medicare patients"
^ Kim Underwood; Richard Craver (August 13, 2009). "Seeing through the myths of a health-care overhaul". Winston-Salem Journal. Associated Press. p. A.1.
^ a b c Megan Garber (August 18, 2009). "Health Care and Wikipedia". Columbia Journalism Review. Retrieved June 21, 2009.
"Letting Go: What should medicine do when it can't save your life?"
^ Dr. Roe Introduces Legislation to Eliminate the Independent Payment Advisory Board: HR 452 – The Medicare Decisions Accountability Act Press Release. January 26, 2011.
^ "Atul Gawande on end-of-life counseling". Need to Know. February 8, 2011.8 minutes in. PBS. YouTube. Retrieved October 17, 2011.
"Rachel Maddow says Republicans Chuck Grassley, John Boehner and John Mica flip-flopped on end-of-life counseling"
Angie Drobnic Holan (December 19, 2009). "PolitiFact's Lie of the Year: 'Death panels'". PolitiFact. Retrieved November 19, 2010.
"New Studies in Palliative Care". The Diane Rehm Show. August 24, 2010.21 minutes in. NPR.
Lacey, Marc (December 2, 2010). "Arizona Cuts Financing for Transplant Patients". The New York Times.
A bill to provide for reimbursement every five years for office visit discussions with Medicare patients on advance directives, living wills, and other end of life care issues was proposed by Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) in April 2009—with Republican cosponsors Charles Boustany (R-LA), a cardiovascular surgeon, Patrick Tiberi (R-OH), and Geoff Davis (R-KY).[37][38][39] The counseling was to be voluntary and could be reimbursed more often if a grave illness occurred. The legislation had been encouraged by Gundersen Lutheran and a loose coalition of other hospitals in La Crosse, Wisconsin that had had positive experiences with the widespread use of advance directives.[37][38][40][41] Blumenauer's standalone bill was tabled and inserted into the large health care reform bill, HR 3200 as Section 1233 shortly afterward.[37][42][43] Supporters of the Section 1233 counseling provision included the American Medical Association (AMA), AARP, the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization, and Consumers Union; the National Right to Life Committee opposed "the provision as written".[44] It was removed from the Senate version of the bill due to the death panel controversy[1] and was not included in the reconciled and final bill which became law in March 2010 and which is known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.[19]
On July 24, 2009, an op-ed by McCaughey was published in the New York Post.[16] In the piece, which was titled "Deadly Doctors", McCaughey falsely asserted that presidential advisor Ezekiel Emanuel believed disabled people should not be entitled to medical care, and quoted him out of context.[17][18] On July 27, excerpts from the McCaughey's op-ed were read, with approval, by Representative (Rep.) Michele Bachmann (R-MN) on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives.[11][18] Within days, Rep. John Boehner (R-OH), then the Minority Leader of the House and Rep. Thaddeus McCotter (R-MI), the Republican Policy Committee Chairman, repeated claims that Section 1233 would encourage "government-sponsored" euthanasia,[13][19][20] and Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC) charged that the proposal would "put seniors in a position of being put to death by their government."[6][21] On July 30, former Republican House Speaker Newt Gingrich, declared that the House bill had "a bias toward euthanasia".[22][23] The Washington Post reported on August 1, 2009 that the claim had been spreading via "religious e-mail lists" and internet blogs.[13] In early August, members of Congress held town hall meetings that were marked by hostility—including shouting, sporadic, physical altercations and comparisons between the proposed reforms and Nazi Germany.[24]
^ "Epistemic closure and political disinformation". The Economist. May 5, 2010. Retrieved April 6, 2011.
^ "'Tweet' 2009 Word of the Year, 'Google' Word of the Decade, as voted by American Dialect Society" (PDF). American Dialect Society. January 8, 2010. Retrieved October 8, 2010.
In his study of the "death panel" myth, Brendan Nyhan concluded that "once such beliefs take hold, few good options exist to counter them". However, in future such cases he recommended that "concerned scholars, citizens, and journalists ... [could] create negative publicity for the elites who are promoting misinformation", and "pressure the media to stop providing coverage to serial dissemblers."[3] In contrast to the above statements suggesting there is no good method to correct misinformation in the minds of the public, MIT professor Adam Berinsky has found some success when people are exposed to corrective information from sources that belong to the same political party as the misinformer.[100]
^ Eugene Kiely; Dangelo Gore; Viveca Novak (December 23, 2010). "Let the distortions begin; A sneak preview of what to expect as 2012 comes into focus". FactCheck.org. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
Charles E. Carson (2010). "Among the new words" (PDF). American Speech. American Dialect Society. 85 (3): 352–65. doi:10.1215/00031283-2010-020.
Princeton economics professor Uwe Reinhardt said that it is possible to slightly bend the U.S. health care cost curve down through a lower volume of health care services "by more widespread use of living wills—an idea once actively promoted by Newt Gingrich. But those ideas were met in the past year by dark allusions to 'rationing', to Nazi-style death panels and to 'killing Granny'."[107][108] Reinhardt said lowering health care costs would require lowering health care incomes, and that such reforms always end up being a political third rail.[107]
^ Alan B. Goldberg; Katie N. Thomson (November 16, 2009). "Sarah Palin: I Want to Play a Major Role in National Politics, 'If People Will Have Me' Former Alaska Gov. Tells Barbara Walters President Obama is "Incorrect" and "Disingenuous" on "Death Panels"". ABC News. Retrieved December 20, 2009.
[G]overnment health care will not reduce the cost; it will simply refuse to pay the cost. And who will suffer the most when they ration care? The sick, the elderly, and the disabled, of course. The America I know and love is not one in which my parents or my baby with Down Syndrome will have to stand in front of Obama's "death panel" so his bureaucrats can decide, based on a subjective judgment of their "level of productivity in society," whether they are worthy of health care. Such a system is downright evil.[29]
President Barack Obama cited the charge—along with the citizenship conspiracy theories and "job-killing" allegations—as demagogy against him.[63] In testimony before the United States Congress Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, Erskine Bowles (D), co-chair of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, called "death panels" "a kind of crazy stuff" and added that end-of-life care in the U.S. needed reform.[64]Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) called the references to "death panels" or euthanasia "mind-numbing" and "a terrible falsehood".[65] He thought that the news media contributed to the persistence of the myth by amplifying misinformation and extreme behavior.[66] When a regulation for reimbursing consultation payments was upcoming, Blumenauer cautioned supporters to keep things quiet, reasoning that Republican leaders would attempt to continue the myth.[19]
Zeytinoglu M (June 2011). "Talking it out: helping our patients live better while dying". Ann. Intern. Med. 154 (12): 830–2, W–300. doi:10.7326/0003-4819-154-12-201106210-00011. PMID 21690597. S2CID 31637435.
^ The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Government Printing Office. p. 747. Accessed April 1, 2011.
Sarah: How a Hockey Mom Turned Alaska's Political Establishment Upside Down
Kim Underwood; Richard Craver (August 13, 2009). "Seeing through the myths of a health-care overhaul". Winston-Salem Journal. Associated Press. p. A.1.
Christopher Condon (October 25, 2010). "Frank Says 'Death Panels' Await Failing Banks Under Law Bearing His Name". Bloomberg. Retrieved November 4, 2010.
Peppercorn JM, Smith TJ, Helft PR,et al. (January 2011). "American Society of Clinical Oncology Statement: Toward Individualized Care for Patients With Advanced Cancer". J Clin Oncol. 29 (6): 755–60. doi:10.1200/JCO.2010.33.1744. PMID 21263086.
^ Robert Pear (January 4, 2011). "U.S. Alters Rule on Paying for End-of-Life Planning". The New York Times.
^ a b David Saltonstall (August 13, 2009). "Ex-pol goes for the jugular. Former Lt. Gov. McCaughey leads 'death panel' charge". New York Daily News. p. 5.
^ "Dr. Gawande on End-of-Life Issues, 'Death Panels'". On Point. January 5, 2011.
George J. Annas (2010). Worst case bioethics: death, disaster, and public health. Oxford University Press. pp. 12–4. ISBN 978-0-19-539173-2.
^ Sarah Palin Obama and the Bureaucratization of Health Care The Wall Street Journal Sept. 8, 2009
^ Michelle Malkin (August 9, 2009). "Death panels? What death panels? Oh, those death panels". MichelleMalkin.com. Retrieved December 4, 2011.
"Senate committee scraps healthcare provision that gave rise to 'death panel' claims; Though the claims are widely discredited, the Senate Finance Committee is withdrawing from its bill the inclusion of advance care planning consultations, calling them too confusing"
^ a b Peppercorn JM, Smith TJ, Helft PR,et al. (January 2011). "American Society of Clinical Oncology Statement: Toward Individualized Care for Patients With Advanced Cancer". J Clin Oncol. 29 (6): 755–60. doi:10.1200/JCO.2010.33.1744. PMID 21263086.
Joseph Shapiro (November 16, 2010). "Intrepid Reporter Faces, Survives 'Death Panel'". NPR's Heath Blogs. National Public Radio.
^ Tapper, Jake (August 7, 2009). "Palin Paints Picture of 'Obama Death Panel' Giving Thumbs Down to Trig". abcnews.com. ABC News. Archived from the original on February 8, 2011. Retrieved November 21, 2010.
"Obama's deal". Frontline.32 minutes in. PBS. PETER BAKER: Once they sort of lost Grassley, they lost arguably their last chance to really get a bipartisan bill. Transcript
^ "Trump Seizes Moral High Ground in Charlie Gard Case - Rasmussen Reports®". m.rasmussenreports.com. Retrieved February 11, 2020.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Christi Parsons; Andrew Zajac (August 14, 2009). "Senate committee scraps healthcare provision that gave rise to 'death panel' claims; Though the claims are widely discredited, the Senate Finance Committee is withdrawing from its bill the inclusion of advance care planning consultations, calling them too confusing". Los Angeles Times.
"AP Fact Check: No 'Death Panel' In Bill; Health Care Proposal Allows Medicare to Pay for Counseling on End-of-Life Issues". CBS News. Associated Press. August 11, 2009. Archived from the original on August 10, 2011. Retrieved April 18, 2011.
^ Jim Rutenberg; Gardiner Harris (September 2, 2009). "Conservatives See Need for Serious Health Debate". The New York Times.
"Murkowski: Don't tell lies about health bill; Some things in the legislation are already bad enough, she says at civic center"
Corn BW (December 2009). "Ending end-of-life phobia – a prescription for enlightened health care reform". N. Engl. J. Med. 361 (27): e63. doi:10.1056/NEJMp0909740. PMID 20018960.
^ a b Mark Leibovich (September 12, 2010). "The Wish for a Conservative Dream Duo". The New York Times.
Doctors, family, and friends were highly trusted sources for end-of-life care information while only 33% trusted elected officials or political candidates for accurate information.[87]
"Gingrey claims federal health care board can decide if you get dialysis, chemo"
Susan Davis (December 22, 2009). "Palin's 'Death Panels' Charge Named 'Lie of the Year'". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved August 5, 2010.
Megan Garber (August 18, 2009). "Health Care and Wikipedia". Columbia Journalism Review. Retrieved June 21, 2009.
"Debt Deal?". Finance Wire. FDCH/eMedia. July 15, 2011. © Fox News Network.
^ a b c d "Sarah Palin falsely claims Barack Obama runs a 'death panel'". PolitiFact. August 10, 2009.
Although Palin's post did not identify a portion of legislation she believed mandated "death panels",[2] a spokesperson pointed to HR 3200, Section 1233,[30][31][32] and Palin herself followed up in an August 12 Facebook note clarifying her argument by discussing Section 1233.[2] However, neither Section 1233 nor any other provision in any health care bill provided for a system to determine if individuals were worthy of health care.[4] Yet, Palin's charge of "death panels" became believed by about 30% of those surveyed in the U.S. within a week.[33]
Palin, Sarah, Why I Support the Ryan Roadmap, The Wall Street Journal, December 10, 2010.
Sarah Palin Obama and the Bureaucratization of Health Care The Wall Street Journal Sept. 8, 2009
Bioethicist George Annas wrote that America has a "death denying culture that cannot accept death as anything but defeat." We will "prepare for any and every disease and screen for every possible 'risk factor', but we are utterly unable to prepare for death." Annas commended and quoted The Boston Globe columnist Ellen Goodman, who wrote "I think that what our [healthcare] system may need is not more intervention, but more conversation, especially on the delicate subject of dying ... More expensive care is not always better care. Doing everything can be the wrong thing." However, Annas said mythical "death panels" blocked exploring these issues, appearing to affirm Ivan Illich's 1975 Medical Nemesis, when he said " '[s]ocially approved death happens when man[sic] has become useless not only as a producer but also as a consumer. It is at this point that [the patient] ... must be written off as a total loss'."[101]
^ "LETTERS, May 1: 'Death panels' at work in England". Wilmington Star News. Retrieved February 11, 2020.
^ a b Kathy Keily; Mimi Hall (August 18, 2009). "End-of-life counseling started with bipartisan support". USA Today. p. A.4.
"It's the way she tells them: Sarah Palin jokes with journalists"
USA Today (January 6, 2011). "Our view on health care: Nonsense about 'death panels' springs back to life". USA Today. Retrieved April 1, 2011.
Catherine Godbey (August 30, 2009). "Death panels or end-of-life care? Hospice of the Valley weighs in on issue". The Decatur Daily. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011.
Kettl P (April 2010). "One Vote for Death Panels". JAMA. 303 (13): 1234–5. doi:10.1001/jama.2010.376. PMID 20371773.
By mid-August 2009, about a week after Palin's initial Facebook note, the Pew Research Center reported that 86% of Americans had heard of the "death panels" charge.[3] Out of those who had heard the charge, 30% of people thought it was true while 20% did not know.[3] For Republicans, 47% thought it was true while 23% did not know.[3] Oberlander said the false warnings of a "government takeover" and "death panels" from Republicans drowned out the "Democrats' focus group–tested mantra of 'quality, affordable health care' ".[83] Morone said the White House was not able to offer a "persuasive narrative to counter the Tea Party percussion", and "struggled to recapture public attention", contributing to Republican Scott Brown's election.[84] The election of Brown in the special Senate election in Massachusetts was a surprise victory for Republicans[85] and a setback for the chance of health care reform under Democratic leadership; Brown won the historical Senate seat of the late Democrat Ted Kennedy, ending the Democrat's supermajority of 60 in the Senate.
Matthew DoBias (March 8, 2011). "No Death Panels, Please, But Poll Shows Americans Can Handle End-of-Life Chat". National Journal. Retrieved March 10, 2011.
Harold Pollack (July 17, 2011). "It's Not Just The Money: Cost Control In Cancer Care (Guest Opinion)". Kaiser Health News. Retrieved July 19, 2011.
^ Harold Pollack (July 17, 2011). "It's Not Just The Money: Cost Control In Cancer Care (Guest Opinion)". Kaiser Health News. Retrieved July 19, 2011.
On July 16, 2009, former lieutenant governor of New York, Betsy McCaughey, a longtime opponent of federal healthcare legislation[9][10] said Section 1233 of HR 3200 was "a vicious assault on elderly people"[11] because it would "absolutely require" Medicare patients to have counseling sessions every five years that would "tell them how to end their life sooner".[12] Conservative talk radio hosts including[13] Rush Limbaugh,[12] Sean Hannity and Laura Ingraham repeated McCaughey's claim.[14] The AARP, a non-profit lobby group for retired persons, responded that the sessions were in no way designed to encourage euthanasia, but would instead help seniors make better decisions and would help ensure that their wishes were followed.[12][15] PolitiFact said the proposal provided Medicare coverage for optional counseling sessions for patients who wanted to learn more about end-of-life-planning.[12]
R. Jeffery Smith Health-related money continues to flow to members of Congress The Washington Post. February 6, 2011.
"'Death panel' controversy remains very much alive; Even some conservatives call the issue bogus. Meanwhile, the healthcare debate shifts to 'rationing.'"
Brendan Nyhan (2010). "Why the "Death Panel" Myth Wouldn't Die: Misinformation in the Health Care Reform Debate" (PDF). The Forum. Berkeley Electronic Press. 8 (1). CiteSeerX 10.1.1.692.9614. doi:10.2202/1540-8884.1354. S2CID 144075499.
^ a b James A. Morone (June 2010). "Presidents and health reform: from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Barack Obama". Health Aff (Millwood). 29 (6): 1096–100. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0420. PMID 20530336.
"Hip, Hip — if Not Hooray — for a Standstill Nation"
"Health Care Rx: Across the Country, Some Systems Are Getting It Right"
^ Michael F. Cannon (August 19, 2009). "Sorry Folks, Sarah Palin Is (Partly) Right". The Detroit Free Press. reprinted by the Cato Institute. Retrieved December 7, 2010.
J. Brent Pawlecki (2010). "End of life: a workplace issue". Health Aff (Millwood). 29 (1): 141–6. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2009.0481. PMID 20048373.
Newt Gingrich (August 16, 2009). "Healthcare rationing: Real scary; Concerns about government bureaucracies gaining oversight of your treatment are not misplaced. We need reforms, but the answer is not central planning". Los Angeles Times.
Jill Burcum (November 2, 2011). "Short take: Health care spending". Star Tribune. Archived from the original on November 4, 2011. Retrieved November 5, 2011.
The "death panel" myth produced widespread reaction among the media, physicians and politicians.
^ Richard Mial (August 13, 2009). "A momentary lapse in necessary skepticism". McClatchy - Tribune Business News.
^ Jay Newton-Small (December 9, 2010). "Palin in Progress: What Does She Want?". Time. Archived from the original on December 13, 2010. Retrieved April 9, 2011.
Yes, Gov. Brewer, Arizona does have a death panel Arizona Republic December 9, 2010
Jim Rutenberg (September 4, 2009). "Resurfacing, a Critic Stirs Up Debate Over Health Care". The New York Times. Retrieved December 8, 2011.
Ceci Connolly (August 1, 2009). "Proposed Counseling for Seniors in Health Plan Spurs New Battle". The Washington Post. p. A.1.
Andrew Clark (December 6, 2009). "It's the way she tells them: Sarah Palin jokes with journalists". The Guardian. London. Retrieved October 15, 2010.
Jim Rutenberg (August 24, 2009). "Bioethicist Becomes a Lightning Rod for Criticism". The New York Times. Retrieved December 8, 2011.
"Cancer, heart surgeries delayed as coronavirus alters care". Associated Press. April 20, 2021.
Michelle Malkin (August 9, 2009). "Death panels? What death panels? Oh, those death panels". MichelleMalkin.com. Retrieved December 4, 2011.
"LETTERS, May 1: 'Death panels' at work in England". Wilmington Star News. Retrieved February 11, 2020.
^ Michael Scherer (March 4, 2010). "The White House Scrambles to Tame the News Cyclone". Time. Archived from the original on March 7, 2010. Retrieved November 21, 2010.
"Political Lies and the Press". On the Media. October 15, 2010. NPR. WNYC. Archived from the original on October 19, 2010.
^ "Mike Huckabee: 'Death Panels' Will Grow From Stimulus-Planted Seeds". Huffington Post. March 10, 2011. Retrieved March 28, 2011.
Lisa Demer (August 12, 2009). "Murkowski: Don't tell lies about health bill; Some things in the legislation are already bad enough, she says at civic center". Anchorage Daily News. p. A.1. Archived from the original on September 21, 2010.
Matthew L. Schafer; Regina G. Lawrence (May 23, 2011). "Two Years Later: The Media Response to Death Panels and Why It's Still Important". lippmann would roll. Archived from the original on January 27, 2013. Retrieved May 31, 2011.
^ R. Jeffery Smith Health-related money continues to flow to members of Congress The Washington Post. February 6, 2011.
After Palin's statement, conservative commentators including Glenn Beck, Rush Limbaugh and Michelle Malkin agreed that death panels were mandated by the proposed legislation.[3][74][75] On August 9, former House speaker Newt Gingrich backed Palin's "death panel" charge by saying that the bill created numerous agencies and panels, that government was not to be trusted, and "there clearly are people in America who believe in establishing euthanasia, including selective standards".[4][76][77] One week later, Gingrich wrote that the proposed legislation did not provide for government rationing of health care, but it was "all but certain to lead to rationing."[78]
^ a b "Palin stands by 'death panel' claim". USA Today. Associated Press. August 13, 2009. Archived from the original on November 29, 2010. Retrieved February 8, 2010.
"US breast cancer drug decision 'marks start of death panels'"
Bishop JP, Brothers KB, Perry JE, Ahmad A (January 2010). "Finite knowledge/finite power: 'death panels' and the limits of medicine". Am J Bioeth. 10 (1): W7–9. doi:10.1080/15265160903493070. PMID 20077324. S2CID 36810889.
At an August 12, 2009, town hall meeting, Senator Chuck Grassley, the ranking Republican on the Health Care subcommittee said, "living wills ... ought to be done within the family.[36] We should not have a government program that determines you're going to pull the plug on Grandma."[6] Grassley later said that he did not think the provision would grant the government the authority to decide who lives and dies.[79][80][81]
Legislation providing for counseling patients on advance directives, living wills and end-of-life care had been on the books for years, however, the laws did not provide for physicians to be reimbursed for giving such counseling during routine physical exams of the elderly. The Patient Self-Determination Act (1991) requires health care providers, including hospitals, hospices and nursing homes to provide information about advance directives to admitted patients.[34][35] The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act began providing reimbursements for end-of-life care discussions with terminally ill patients in 2003.[36]
^ "In brief: Wire reports". The Herald. The McClatchy Company. August 8, 2009. Former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin called President Barack Obama's health plan "downright evil" Friday in her first online comments since leaving office, saying in a Facebook posting that he would create a "death panel" that would deny care to the neediest Americans.
^ a b Jason Beattie (August 14, 2009). "NHS receives [sic] battle cry from PM after attack from right-wing Americans". Mirror News. Retrieved August 24, 2013.
In November 2018 the podcast Death Panel was launched. The podcast was originally hosted by Beatrice Adler-Bolton, Artie Vierkant, Vince Patti, and Phil Rocco and covers politics, culture, and public policy from the left on a twice-weekly basis.[135]
@AOC (December 2, 2018). "Actually, we have for-profit "death panels" now: they are companies + boards saying you're on your own bc they won't cover a critical procedure or medicine. Maybe if the GOP stopped hiding behind this "socialist" rock they love to throw, they'd actually engage on-issue for once" (Tweet) – via Twitter.
^ Jim Rutenberg (September 4, 2009). "Resurfacing, a Critic Stirs Up Debate Over Health Care". The New York Times. Retrieved December 8, 2011.
"Frank Says 'Death Panels' Await Failing Banks Under Law Bearing His Name"
"Gregg's concerns don't add up: On health care, he's just obstructionist"
^ J. Brent Pawlecki (2010). "End of life: a workplace issue". Health Aff (Millwood). 29 (1): 141–6. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2009.0481. PMID 20048373.
Scripko PD, Greer DM (January 2010). "Practical considerations for reviving the CPR/DNR conversation". Am J Bioeth. 10 (1): 74–5. doi:10.1080/15265160903460889. PMID 20077349. S2CID 13457030.
Alec MacGillis (October 17, 2011). "Newt's Personal Hypocrisy on 'Death Panels'". The New Republic. Retrieved October 23, 2011.
Dr. Roe Introduces Legislation to Eliminate the Independent Payment Advisory Board: HR 452 – The Medicare Decisions Accountability Act Press Release. January 26, 2011.
Bishop et al. were fearful of how their publication[92] on CPR/DNR would be received by the medical and bioethics communities. They were concerned because in "the era of rhetoric centered on fictional 'death panels' " their paper addressed "the quest for immortality implicit in US culture, a culture of 'life-at-all costs' that medical technology has advanced".[93] Bishop et al. interpreted cautioning comments from their peers[94] as a suggestion "that land mines of 'death panels' await us".[93]
This page was last edited on 15 February 2023, at 19:15 (UTC).
"McCaughey claims end-of-life counseling will be required for Medicare patients". PolitiFact. St. Petersburg Times. July 23, 2009. Retrieved April 28, 2011.
Sarah Palin, who had been keeping a low profile after her July 3, 2009, resignation announcement as Alaska's Governor,[6][25] was the first to use the "death panel" term on August 7, 2009. In her first Facebook note, she said:[26][27][28]
"Proposed Counseling for Seniors in Health Plan Spurs New Battle"
^ a b Matthew L. Schafer; Regina G. Lawrence (May 23, 2011). "Two Years Later: The Media Response to Death Panels and Why It's Still Important". lippmann would roll. Archived from the original on January 27, 2013. Retrieved May 31, 2011.
"Palin Paints Picture of 'Obama Death Panel' Giving Thumbs Down to Trig"
Frum, David (March 21, 2010). "Waterloo". FrumForum. Archived from the original on March 6, 2018. Retrieved March 10, 2018.
Joel Connelly (September 9, 2009). "Obama fights fear in Wednesday health care speech". Seattlepi.com. Retrieved December 1, 2011.
BBC News staff (August 12, 2009). "Bloggers debate British healthcare". BBC News. Retrieved October 15, 2010.
^ Lacey, Marc (December 2, 2010). "Arizona Cuts Financing for Transplant Patients". The New York Times.
^ "Insight Forums: Dr. Brent J. Pawlecki". Archived from the original on July 13, 2011. Retrieved October 20, 2010.
^ Goldberg, Michelle (March 24, 2020). "Opinion | Here Come the Death Panels". The New York Times.
^ a b Jonathan Oberlander (June 2010). "Long time coming: why health reform finally passed". Health Aff (Millwood). 29 (6): 1112–6. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0447. PMID 20530339. The administration ... was seemingly unprepared for the intense opposition and fury that erupted during town-hall meetings in the summer of 2009. The Democrats' focus group–tested mantra of 'quality, affordable health care' was drowned out by Republicans' false warnings of 'death panels' and a 'government takeover'
Katie Connolly (September 22, 2010). "Why healthcare reform has been a tough sell". BBC News. Retrieved November 24, 2010.
Dr. Roe Introduces Legislation to Eliminate the Independent Payment Advisory Board: HR 452 – The Medicare Decisions Accountability Act
^ a b c Justin Bank (August 14, 2009). "Palin vs. Obama: Death Panels". FactCheck. Annenberg Public Policy Center. Archived from the original on October 17, 2011. Retrieved June 23, 2011.
Health economist James C. Robinson said the debate over "death panels" showed how willing the public was "to believe the worst about perceived governmental interference with individual choices."[109] Historian Jill Lepore characterized "death panels" as a conspiracy theory that is believed by a minority of the U.S. population and is based on fears that the federal government is conspiring to kill off its weakest members. Of the reform effort, Lepore said it was an "unwelcome reminder of a dreaded truth: death comes to us all"; of the uproar, Lepore said it was a savvy political tactic in that it rallied a party base against death. Lepore also said Obama was "catastrophically outmaneuvered" by the spread of the death panel rumors.[110] Johnathan Oberlander, a professor of health policy, said the Obama administration was "seemingly unprepared for the intense opposition and fury that erupted during town-hall meetings in the summer of 2009."[83] Political scientist James Morone said the term death panel played a role in the Democrats' loss of control over the public debate because they did not address the "underlying fears of big government". Morone called the "death panel" arguments "pungent, memorable, simple, and effective."[84]
^ Jim Rutenberg; Jackie Calmes (August 13, 2010). "False 'Death Panel' Rumor Has Some Familiar Roots". The New York Times.
Goldberg, Michelle (March 24, 2020). "Opinion | Here Come the Death Panels". The New York Times.
^ a b Alicia Mundy (December 9, 2010). "Republican targets use of costly medical devices". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved April 29, 2011.
David Saltonstall (August 13, 2009). "Ex-pol goes for the jugular. Former Lt. Gov. McCaughey leads 'death panel' charge". New York Daily News. p. 5.
"Gingrey claims federal health care board can decide if you get dialysis, chemo". PolitiFact.com. August 2, 2011. Retrieved August 2, 2011.
^ "Obama's deal". Frontline.32 minutes in. PBS. PETER BAKER: Once they sort of lost Grassley, they lost arguably their last chance to really get a bipartisan bill. Transcript
Alicia Mundy (December 9, 2010). "Republican targets use of costly medical devices". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved April 29, 2011.
"Atul Gawande on end-of-life counseling". Need to Know. February 8, 2011.8 minutes in. PBS. YouTube. Retrieved October 17, 2011.
Stewart, Emily (2018-10-03). "California just passed a law requiring more women on boards. It matters, even if it fails". Vox. Retrieved 2019-08-13.
^ Loevinger, L. "Jurimetrics: Science and prediction in the field of law". Minnesota Law Review, vol. 46, HeinOnline, 1961.
Nigrini, Mark J. (1999-04-30). "I've Got Your Number: How a mathematical phenomenon can help CPAs uncover fraud and other irregularities". Journal of Accountancy.
We screen men for the possibility of committing mass shootings or terrorist attacks. The base rate is assumed to be 0.01%.
With these base rates and the hypothetical values of sensitivity and specificity, we may calculate the posterior probability that a positive result indicates the individual will actually engage in each of the actions:
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Garner, Bryan A. (2001). "jurimetrics". A Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage. p. 488. ISBN 0195142365.
Jurimetrics is the application of quantitative methods, and often especially probability and statistics, to law.[1] In the United States, the journal Jurimetrics is published by the American Bar Association and Arizona State University.[2] The Journal of Empirical Legal Studies is another publication that emphasizes the statistical analysis of law.
^ Fenton, Norman; Neil, Martin; Lagnado, David A. (2013). "A General Structure for Legal Arguments About Evidence Using Bayesian Networks". Cognitive Science. 37 (1): 61–102. doi:10.1111/cogs.12004. ISSN 1551-6709. PMID 23110576.
^ Jones, Shayne E.; Miller, Joshua D.; Lynam, Donald R. (2011-07-01). "Personality, antisocial behavior, and aggression: A meta-analytic review". Journal of Criminal Justice. 39 (4): 329–337. doi:10.1016/j.jcrimjus.2011.03.004. ISSN 0047-2352.
We screen welfare recipients for cocaine use. The base rate in the population is approximately 1.5%,[38] assuming no differences in use between welfare recipients and the general population.
^ Deichmann, Richard E.; Krousel-Wood, Marie; Breault, Joseph (2016). "Bioethics in Practice: Considerations for Stopping a Clinical Trial Early". The Ochsner Journal. 16 (3): 197–198. ISSN 1524-5012. PMC 5024796. PMID 27660563.
Kennedy, Edward H.; Hu, Chen; O’Brien, Barbara; Gross, Samuel R. (2014-05-20). "Rate of false conviction of criminal defendants who are sentenced to death". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 111 (20): 7230–7235. Bibcode:2014PNAS..111.7230G. doi:10.1073/pnas.1306417111. ISSN 0027-8424. PMC 4034186. PMID 24778209.
Levin, Bruce (2015). "The futility study—progress over the last decade". Contemporary Clinical Trials. 45 (Pt A): 69–75. doi:10.1016/j.cct.2015.06.013. ISSN 1551-7144. PMC 4639404. PMID 26123873.
^ Lai, T. L.; Levin, Bruce; Robbins, Herbert; Siegmund, David (1980-06-01). "Sequential medical trials". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 77 (6): 3135–3138. Bibcode:1980PNAS...77.3135L. doi:10.1073/pnas.77.6.3135. ISSN 0027-8424. PMC 349568. PMID 16592839.
"Ban the Box, Criminal Records, and Racial Discrimination: A Field Experiment"
Bernoulli (1709). The use of the Art of conjecturing in Law.
Localio, A. Russell; Lawthers, Ann G.; Bengtson, Joan M.; Hebert, Liesi E.; Weaver, Susan L.; Brennan, Troyen A.; Landis, J. Richard (1993). "Relationship Between Malpractice Claims and Cesarean Delivery". JAMA. 269 (3): 366–373. doi:10.1001/jama.1993.03500030064034. PMID 8418343.
Agan, Amanda; Starr, Sonja (2018-02-01). "Ban the Box, Criminal Records, and Racial Discrimination: A Field Experiment". The Quarterly Journal of Economics. 133 (1): 191–235. doi:10.1093/qje/qjx028. ISSN 0033-5533. S2CID 18615965.
Depending on the number of board members, we are trying compute the cumulative distribution function:
Therefore, the form of Bayes' theorem that is pertinent to us is:
"Yes, This Is a Good Time To Talk About Gun Violence and How To Reduce It"
"A Governance-Based Jurimetric Analysis of Judicial Corruption: Subjective versus Objective Indicators"
Spivak, Andrew L.; Damphousse, Kelly R. (2006). "Who Returns to Prison? A Survival Analysis of Recidivism among Adult Offenders Released in Oklahoma, 1985 – 2004". Justice Research and Policy. 8 (2): 57–88. doi:10.3818/jrp.8.2.2006.57. ISSN 1525-1071. S2CID 144566819.
Finkelstein, Michael O.; Levin, Bruce (1997). "Clear Choices and Guesswork in Peremptory Challenges in Federal Criminal Trials". Journal of the Royal Statistical Society. Series A (Statistics in Society). 160 (2): 275–288. doi:10.1111/1467-985X.00062. ISSN 0964-1998. JSTOR 2983220.
Deichmann, Richard E.; Krousel-Wood, Marie; Breault, Joseph (2016). "Bioethics in Practice: Considerations for Stopping a Clinical Trial Early". The Ochsner Journal. 16 (3): 197–198. ISSN 1524-5012. PMC 5024796. PMID 27660563.
2Applications											Toggle Applications subsection																					2.1Gender quotas on corporate boards																											2.2Bayesian analysis of evidence																											2.3Screening of drug users, mass shooters, and terrorists
^ Buscaglia, Edgardo (2001). "The Economic Factors Behind Legal Integration: A Jurimetric Analysis of the Latin American Experience" (PDF). German Papers in Law and Economics. 1: 1.
^ Nigrini, Mark J. (1999-04-30). "I've Got Your Number: How a mathematical phenomenon can help CPAs uncover fraud and other irregularities". Journal of Accountancy.
Kiszko, Kamila M.; Martinez, Olivia D.; Abrams, Courtney; Elbel, Brian (2014). "The influence of calorie labeling on food orders and consumption: A review of the literature". Journal of Community Health. 39 (6): 1248–1269. doi:10.1007/s10900-014-9876-0. ISSN 0094-5145. PMC 4209007. PMID 24760208.
^ Donohue III, John J.; Ho, Daniel E. (2007). "The Impact of Damage Caps on Malpractice Claims: Randomization Inference with Difference-in-Differences". Journal of Empirical Legal Studies. 4 (1): 69–102. doi:10.1111/j.1740-1461.2007.00082.x.
^ a b Somin, Ilya (2018-10-04). "California's Unconstitutional Gender Quotas for Corporate Boards". Reason.com. The Volokh Conspiracy. Retrieved 2019-08-13.
Van Doren, Peter (2018-06-25). "The Fiduciary Rule and Conflict of Interest". Cato at Liberty. Cato Institute. Retrieved 2019-12-14.
^ Gillespie, Nick (2018-02-14). "Yes, This Is a Good Time To Talk About Gun Violence and How To Reduce It". Reason.com. Retrieved 2019-08-17.
"Adaptive Designs for Clinical Trials of Drugs and Biologics: Guidance for Industry". U.S. Department of Health and Human Services/Food and Drug Administration. 2019.
^ "Terrorist Screening Center". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Retrieved 2019-08-17.
"California just passed a law requiring more women on boards. It matters, even if it fails"
"I've Got Your Number: How a mathematical phenomenon can help CPAs uncover fraud and other irregularities"
Fenton, Norman; Neil, Martin; Lagnado, David A. (2013). "A General Structure for Legal Arguments About Evidence Using Bayesian Networks". Cognitive Science. 37 (1): 61–102. doi:10.1111/cogs.12004. ISSN 1551-6709. PMID 23110576.
Angrist, Joshua D.; Pischke, Jörn-Steffen (2009). Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 9780691120355.
^ Moore, Thomas Gale (1986). "U. S. Airline Deregulation: Its Effects on Passengers, Capital, and Labor". The Journal of Law & Economics. 29 (1): 1–28. doi:10.1086/467107. ISSN 0022-2186. JSTOR 725400. S2CID 153646501.
Borenstein, Michael; Hedges, Larry V.; Higgins, Julian P.T.; Rothstein, Hannah R. (2009). Introduction to Meta-Analysis. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 9780470057247.
Finkelstein, Michael O.; Levin, Bruce (2015). Statistics for Lawyers. Statistics for Social and Behavioral Sciences (3rd ed.). New York, NY: Springer. ISBN 9781441959843.
^ Kiszko, Kamila M.; Martinez, Olivia D.; Abrams, Courtney; Elbel, Brian (2014). "The influence of calorie labeling on food orders and consumption: A review of the literature". Journal of Community Health. 39 (6): 1248–1269. doi:10.1007/s10900-014-9876-0. ISSN 0094-5145. PMC 4209007. PMID 24760208.
"The impact of board size on firm performance: evidence from the UK"
Sensitivity is equal to the statistical power 1−β{\displaystyle 1-\beta }, where β{\displaystyle \beta } is the type II error rate
Even with very high sensitivity and specificity, the screening tests only return posterior probabilities of 60.1% and 0.98% respectively for each action. Under more realistic circumstances, it is likely that screening would prove even less useful than under these hypothetical conditions. The problem with any screening procedure for rare events is that it is very likely to be too imprecise, which will identify too many people of being at risk of engaging in some undesirable action.
^ "Adaptive Designs for Clinical Trials of Drugs and Biologics: Guidance for Industry". U.S. Department of Health and Human Services/Food and Drug Administration. 2019.
"What is the scope of cocaine use in the United States?"
^ Durtschi, Cindy; Hillison, William; Pacini, Carl (2004). "The Effective Use of Benford's Law to Assist in Detecting Fraud in Accounting Data". Journal of Forensic Accounting. 5: 17–34.
Stern & Kadane (2014). Compensating for the loss of a chance. Department of Statistics, Carnegie Mellon University.
Hosmer, David W.; Lemeshow, Stanley; May, Susanne (2008). Applied Survival Analysis: Regression Modeling of Time-to-Event Data. Wiley-Interscience (2nd ed.). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 9780471754992.
Buscaglia, Edgardo (2001). "The Economic Factors Behind Legal Integration: A Jurimetric Analysis of the Latin American Experience" (PDF). German Papers in Law and Economics. 1: 1.
This page was last edited on 29 January 2023, at 03:13 (UTC).
^ Linnainmaa, Juhani T.; Melzer, Brian; Previtero, Alessandro (2018). "The Misguided Beliefs of Financial Advisors". SSRN. SSRN 3101426.
^ Vlek, Charlotte S.; Prakken, Henry; Renooij, Silja; Verheij, Bart (2014-12-01). "Building Bayesian networks for legal evidence with narratives: a case study evaluation". Artificial Intelligence and Law. 22 (4): 375–421. doi:10.1007/s10506-014-9161-7. ISSN 1572-8382. S2CID 12449479.
^ Gelman, Andrew; Fagan, Jeffrey; Kiss, Alex (2007). "An Analysis of the New York City Police Department's "Stop-and-Frisk" Policy in the Context of Claims of Racial Bias". Journal of the American Statistical Association. 102 (479): 813–823. doi:10.1198/016214506000001040. ISSN 0162-1459. JSTOR 27639927. S2CID 8505752.
Loevinger, Lee (1949). "Jurimetrics--The Next Step Forward". Minnesota Law Review. 33: 455.
^ Perry, Walter L.; McInnis, Brian; Price, Carter C.; Smith, Susan; Hollywood, John S. (2013). "Predictive Policing: The Role of Crime Forecasting in Law Enforcement Operations". RAND Corporation. Retrieved 2019-08-16.
Angrist, Joshua D.; Krueger, Alan B. (1991). "Does Compulsory School Attendance Affect Schooling and Earnings?". The Quarterly Journal of Economics. 106 (4): 979–1014. doi:10.2307/2937954. ISSN 0033-5533. JSTOR 2937954. S2CID 153718259.
"The Economic Factors Behind Legal Integration: A Jurimetric Analysis of the Latin American Experience"
McCullagh, Peter; Nelder, John A. (1989). Generalized Linear Models. Monographs on Statistics and Applied Probability (2nd ed.). Boca Raton, FL: Chapman & Hall/CRC. ISBN 9780412317606.
Devi, Tanaya; Fryer, Roland G. Jr. (2020). "Policing the Police: The Impact of "Pattern-or-Practice" Investigations on Crime" (PDF). NBER Working Paper Series. No. 27324.
Gillespie, Nick (2018-02-14). "Yes, This Is a Good Time To Talk About Gun Violence and How To Reduce It". Reason.com. Retrieved 2019-08-17.
"Larger board size and decreasing firm value in small firms"
In more male-dominated industries, such as technology, there could be an even greater imbalance. Suppose that instead of parity in general, the probability that a person who is qualified for board service is female is 40%; this is likely to be a high estimate, given the predominance of males in the technology industry. Then the probability of violating Senate Bill 826 by chance may be recomputed as:
Suppose that there is some binary screening procedure for an action V{\displaystyle V} that identifies a person as testing positive +{\displaystyle +} or negative −{\displaystyle -} for the action. Bayes' theorem tells us that the conditional probability of taking action V{\displaystyle V}, given a positive test result, is:
^ Holmes, The Path of the Law, 10 Harvard Law Review (1897) 457.
^ Van Doren, Peter (2018-06-25). "The Fiduciary Rule and Conflict of Interest". Cato at Liberty. Cato Institute. Retrieved 2019-12-14.
The first work on this topic is attributed to Nicolaus I Bernoulli in his doctoral dissertation De Usu Artis Conjectandi in Jure, written in 1709.
^ Kwan, Michael; Chow, Kam-Pui; Law, Frank; Lai, Pierre (2008).Ray, Indrajit; Shenoi, Sujeet (eds.). "Reasoning About Evidence Using Bayesian Networks". Advances in Digital Forensics IV. IFIP — The International Federation for Information Processing. Springer US. 285: 275–289. doi:10.1007/978-0-387-84927-0_22. ISBN 9780387849270.
^ Levin, Bruce (2015). "The futility study—progress over the last decade". Contemporary Clinical Trials. 45 (Pt A): 69–75. doi:10.1016/j.cct.2015.06.013. ISSN 1551-7144. PMC 4639404. PMID 26123873.
^ Agan, Amanda; Starr, Sonja (2018-02-01). "Ban the Box, Criminal Records, and Racial Discrimination: A Field Experiment". The Quarterly Journal of Economics. 133 (1): 191–235. doi:10.1093/qje/qjx028. ISSN 0033-5533. S2CID 18615965.
^ Finkelstein, Michael O.; Robbins, Herbert E. (1973). "Mathematical Probability in Election Challenges". Columbia Law Review. 73 (2): 241. doi:10.2307/1121228. JSTOR 1121228.
"What is the scope of cocaine use in the United States?". National Institute on Drug Abuse. Retrieved 2019-08-17.
"Adaptive Designs for Clinical Trials of Drugs and Biologics: Guidance for Industry"
Jones, Shayne E.; Miller, Joshua D.; Lynam, Donald R. (2011-07-01). "Personality, antisocial behavior, and aggression: A meta-analytic review". Journal of Criminal Justice. 39 (4): 329–337. doi:10.1016/j.jcrimjus.2011.03.004. ISSN 0047-2352.
Cost-benefit analysis of renewable portfolio standards for greenhouse gas abatement[13]
"Bioethics in Practice: Considerations for Stopping a Clinical Trial Early"
Using the binomial distribution, we may compute what the probability is of violating the rule laid out in Senate Bill 826 by the number of board members. The probability mass function for the binomial distribution is:
^ Devi, Tanaya; Fryer, Roland G. Jr. (2020). "Policing the Police: The Impact of "Pattern-or-Practice" Investigations on Crime" (PDF). NBER Working Paper Series. No. 27324.
Durtschi, Cindy; Hillison, William; Pacini, Carl (2004). "The Effective Use of Benford's Law to Assist in Detecting Fraud in Accounting Data". Journal of Forensic Accounting. 5: 17–34.
"The Impact of Damage Caps on Malpractice Claims: Randomization Inference with Difference-in-Differences"
"A General Structure for Legal Arguments About Evidence Using Bayesian Networks"
^ Stewart, Emily (2018-10-03). "California just passed a law requiring more women on boards. It matters, even if it fails". Vox. Retrieved 2019-08-13.
^ Loevinger, Lee (1949). "Jurimetrics--The Next Step Forward". Minnesota Law Review. 33: 455.
"The influence of calorie labeling on food orders and consumption: A review of the literature"
Loevinger, L. "Jurimetrics: Science and prediction in the field of law". Minnesota Law Review, vol. 46, HeinOnline, 1961.
^ Eisenberg, Theodore; Sundgren, Stefan; Wells, Martin T. (1998). "Larger board size and decreasing firm value in small firms". Journal of Financial Economics. 48 (1): 35–54. doi:10.1016/S0304-405X(98)00003-8. ISSN 0304-405X.
In 2018, California's legislature passed Senate Bill 826, which requires all publicly held corporations based in the state to have a minimum number of women on their board of directors.[34][35] Boards with five or fewer members must have at least two women, while boards with six or more members must have at least three women.
Moore, Thomas Gale (1986). "U. S. Airline Deregulation: Its Effects on Passengers, Capital, and Labor". The Journal of Law & Economics. 29 (1): 1–28. doi:10.1086/467107. ISSN 0022-2186. JSTOR 725400. S2CID 153646501.
Gelman, Andrew; Fagan, Jeffrey; Kiss, Alex (2007). "An Analysis of the New York City Police Department's "Stop-and-Frisk" Policy in the Context of Claims of Racial Bias". Journal of the American Statistical Association. 102 (479): 813–823. doi:10.1198/016214506000001040. ISSN 0162-1459. JSTOR 27639927. S2CID 8505752.
The difference between jurimetrics and law and economics is that jurimetrics investigates legal questions from a probabilistic/statistical point of view, while law and economics addresses legal questions using standard microeconomic analysis. A synthesis of these fields is possible through the use of econometrics (statistics for economic analysis) and other quantitative methods to answer relevant legal matters.As an example, the Columbia University scholar Edgardo Buscaglia published several peer-reviewed articles by using a joint jurimetrics and law and economics approach.[39][40]
Linnainmaa, Juhani T.; Melzer, Brian; Previtero, Alessandro (2018). "The Misguided Beliefs of Financial Advisors". SSRN. SSRN 3101426.
Greenstone, Michael; McDowell, Richard; Nath, Ishan (2019-04-21). "Do Renewable Portfolio Standards Deliver?" (PDF). Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago, Working Paper No. 2019-62.
^ "What is the scope of cocaine use in the United States?". National Institute on Drug Abuse. Retrieved 2019-08-17.
Buscaglia, Edgardo (2001). "A Governance-Based Jurimetric Analysis of Judicial Corruption: Subjective versus Objective Indicators" (PDF). International Review of Law and Economics. 21: 231. doi:10.1016/S0144-8188(01)00058-8.
“For the rational study of the law the blackletter man may be the man of the present, but the man of the future is the man of statistics and the master of economics.”[5]
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Garner, Bryan A. (2001). "jurimetrics". A Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage. p. 488. ISBN 0195142365.
^ Localio, A. Russell; Lawthers, Ann G.; Bengtson, Joan M.; Hebert, Liesi E.; Weaver, Susan L.; Brennan, Troyen A.; Landis, J. Richard (1993). "Relationship Between Malpractice Claims and Cesarean Delivery". JAMA. 269 (3): 366–373. doi:10.1001/jama.1993.03500030064034. PMID 8418343.
Kwan, Michael; Chow, Kam-Pui; Law, Frank; Lai, Pierre (2008).Ray, Indrajit; Shenoi, Sujeet (eds.). "Reasoning About Evidence Using Bayesian Networks". Advances in Digital Forensics IV. IFIP — The International Federation for Information Processing. Springer US. 285: 275–289. doi:10.1007/978-0-387-84927-0_22. ISBN 9780387849270.
If we take A{\displaystyle A} to be some criminal behavior and B{\displaystyle B} a criminal complaint or accusation, Bayes' theorem allows us to determine the conditional probability of a crime being committed. More sophisticated analyses of evidence can be undertaken with the use of Bayesian networks.
^ Greenstone, Michael; McDowell, Richard; Nath, Ishan (2019-04-21). "Do Renewable Portfolio Standards Deliver?" (PDF). Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago, Working Paper No. 2019-62.
Somin, Ilya (2018-10-04). "California's Unconstitutional Gender Quotas for Corporate Boards". Reason.com. The Volokh Conspiracy. Retrieved 2019-08-13.
In recent years, there has been a growing interest in the use of screening tests to identify drug users on welfare, potential mass shooters,[36] and terrorists.[37] The efficacy of screening tests can be analyzed using Bayes' theorem.
Vlek, Charlotte S.; Prakken, Henry; Renooij, Silja; Verheij, Bart (2014-12-01). "Building Bayesian networks for legal evidence with narratives: a case study evaluation". Artificial Intelligence and Law. 22 (4): 375–421. doi:10.1007/s10506-014-9161-7. ISSN 1572-8382. S2CID 12449479.
^ Spivak, Andrew L.; Damphousse, Kelly R. (2006). "Who Returns to Prison? A Survival Analysis of Recidivism among Adult Offenders Released in Oklahoma, 1985 – 2004". Justice Research and Policy. 8 (2): 57–88. doi:10.3818/jrp.8.2.2006.57. ISSN 1525-1071. S2CID 144566819.
"The Effective Use of Benford's Law to Assist in Detecting Fraud in Accounting Data"
Guest, Paul M. (2009). "The impact of board size on firm performance: evidence from the UK" (PDF). The European Journal of Finance. 15 (4): 385–404. doi:10.1080/13518470802466121. hdl:1826/4169. ISSN 1351-847X. S2CID 3868815.
^ Angrist, Joshua D.; Krueger, Alan B. (1991). "Does Compulsory School Attendance Affect Schooling and Earnings?". The Quarterly Journal of Economics. 106 (4): 979–1014. doi:10.2307/2937954. ISSN 0033-5533. JSTOR 2937954. S2CID 153718259.
Holmes, The Path of the Law, 10 Harvard Law Review (1897) 457.
"Predictive Policing: The Role of Crime Forecasting in Law Enforcement Operations"
As Ilya Somin points out,[34] a significant percentage of firms - without any history of sex discrimination - could be in violation of the law.
"Policing the Police: The Impact of "Pattern-or-Practice" Investigations on Crime"
Ban the Box legislation and subsequent impact on job applications[10]Statistical discrimination (economics)
Specificity is equal to 1−α{\displaystyle 1-\alpha }, where α{\displaystyle \alpha } is the type I error rate
"Rate of false conviction of criminal defendants who are sentenced to death"
Lai, T. L.; Levin, Bruce; Robbins, Herbert; Siegmund, David (1980-06-01). "Sequential medical trials". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 77 (6): 3135–3138. Bibcode:1980PNAS...77.3135L. doi:10.1073/pnas.77.6.3135. ISSN 0027-8424. PMC 349568. PMID 16592839.
The term was coined in 1949 by Lee Loevinger in his article "Jurimetrics: The Next Step Forward".[1][3] Showing the influence of Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., Loevinger quoted[4] Holmes' celebrated phrase that:
^ Buscaglia, Edgardo (2001). "A Governance-Based Jurimetric Analysis of Judicial Corruption: Subjective versus Objective Indicators" (PDF). International Review of Law and Economics. 21: 231. doi:10.1016/S0144-8188(01)00058-8.
^ Kennedy, Edward H.; Hu, Chen; O’Brien, Barbara; Gross, Samuel R. (2014-05-20). "Rate of false conviction of criminal defendants who are sentenced to death". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 111 (20): 7230–7235. Bibcode:2014PNAS..111.7230G. doi:10.1073/pnas.1306417111. ISSN 0027-8424. PMC 4034186. PMID 24778209.
"An Analysis of the New York City Police Department's "Stop-and-Frisk" Policy in the Context of Claims of Racial Bias"
Kadane, J.B. (2006). Misuse of Bayesian Statistics in Court, CHANCE, 19, 2, 38-40.
Perry, Walter L.; McInnis, Brian; Price, Carter C.; Smith, Susan; Hollywood, John S. (2013). "Predictive Policing: The Role of Crime Forecasting in Law Enforcement Operations". RAND Corporation. Retrieved 2019-08-16.
^ Finkelstein, Michael O.; Levin, Bruce (1997). "Clear Choices and Guesswork in Peremptory Challenges in Federal Criminal Trials". Journal of the Royal Statistical Society. Series A (Statistics in Society). 160 (2): 275–288. doi:10.1111/1467-985X.00062. ISSN 0964-1998. JSTOR 2983220.
Donohue III, John J.; Ho, Daniel E. (2007). "The Impact of Damage Caps on Malpractice Claims: Randomization Inference with Difference-in-Differences". Journal of Empirical Legal Studies. 4 (1): 69–102. doi:10.1111/j.1740-1461.2007.00082.x.
Bayes' theorem states that, for events A{\displaystyle A} and B{\displaystyle B}, the conditional probability of A{\displaystyle A} occurring, given that B{\displaystyle B} has occurred, is:
Eisenberg, Theodore; Sundgren, Stefan; Wells, Martin T. (1998). "Larger board size and decreasing firm value in small firms". Journal of Financial Economics. 48 (1): 35–54. doi:10.1016/S0304-405X(98)00003-8. ISSN 0304-405X.
Finkelstein, Michael O.; Robbins, Herbert E. (1973). "Mathematical Probability in Election Challenges". Columbia Law Review. 73 (2): 241. doi:10.2307/1121228. JSTOR 1121228.
^ Guest, Paul M. (2009). "The impact of board size on firm performance: evidence from the UK" (PDF). The European Journal of Finance. 15 (4): 385–404. doi:10.1080/13518470802466121. hdl:1826/4169. ISSN 1351-847X. S2CID 3868815.
^ "Missouri Revisor of Statutes - Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo, Missouri Law, MO Law". www.moga.mo.gov.
Carol T. Juang, "The Taiwan Consumer Protection Law: Attempt to Protect Consumers Proves Ineffective" Pacific Rim Law & Policy Association, 1997.
"TITLE 6 - CHAPTER 25. PROHIBITED TRADE PRACTICES - Subchapter III. Deceptive Trade Practices". delcode.delaware.gov.
Modern Taiwanese law has been heavily influenced by the European civil law systems, particularly German and Swiss law. The Civil Code in Taiwan contains five books: General Principles, Obligations, Rights over Things, Family, and Succession. The second book of the Code, the Book of Obligations, provided the basis from which consumers could bring products liability actions prior to the enactment of the CPL.[7][8]
The Consumer Protection Law (CPL) in Taiwan, as promulgated on 11 January 1994, and effective on 13 January 1993, specifically protects the interests and safety of customers using the products or services provided by business operators. The Consumer Protection Commission of Executive Yuan serves as an ombudsman supervising, coordinating, reporting any unsafe products/services and periodically reviewing the legislation.
Efforts made for protection of consumer's right and interest are:
"New competition authority comes into existence". 1 October 2013. Retrieved 15 January 2020.
(PDF). 21 August 2010 https://web.archive.org/web/20100821232355/http://www.law.upenn.edu/bll/archives/ulc/fnact99/1920_69/rudtpa66.pdf. Archived from the original (PDF) on 21 August 2010. {{cite web}}: Missing or empty |title= (help)
Germany, as a member state of the European Union, is bound by the consumer protection directives of the European Union; residents may be directly bound by EU regulations.A minister of the federal cabinet is responsible for consumer rights and protection (Verbraucherschutzminister). In the current cabinet of Olaf Scholz, this is Steffi Lemke.
The following lists consumer legislation at the nation-state level. In the EU member state Germany, there is also the applicability of law at the EU level to be considered; this applies on the basis of subsidiarity.
Communications Act of 1934 – created the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to regulate all radio and interstate cable, phone, and satellite communications.
The laws under MGL 93A prohibits activities that relate to overpricing to a consumer and use of "Bait and Switch" techniques. A court will award the plaintiff the damages if they can prove the (1) defendant knowingly and intentionally violated the MGL 93A agreement or (2) the defendant would not "grant relief in bad faith" knowing that the actions violated the MGL 93A agreement.[22] Additionally, failure to disclose refund/ return policy, warranties and critical information about the product/service are all in violation of the legislation, and can result in triple damages and lawyer fees.[23]
Truth in Lending Act (TILA) – requires clear disclosure of key terms of the lending arrangement and all costs.
The main consumer protection laws in the UK are the Consumer Protection Act 1987 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Van Loo, Rory (1 November 2019). "Broadening Consumer Law: Competition, Protection, and Distribution". Notre Dame Law Review. 95 (1): 211.
Mańko, Rafał. "The notion of 'consumer' in EU law" (PDF). Library Briefing. Library of the European Parliament. Retrieved 6 May 2013.
Consumer protection law or consumer law is considered as an area of law that regulates private law relationships between individual consumers and the businesses that sell those goods and services.Consumer protection covers a wide range of topics, including but not necessarily limited to product liability, privacy rights, unfair business practices, fraud, misrepresentation, and other consumers/business interactions. It is a way of preventing frauds and scams from service and sales contracts, eligible fraud, bill collector regulation, pricing, utility turnoffs, consolidation, personal loans that may lead to bankruptcy. There have been some arguments that consumer law is also a better way to engage in large-scale redistribution than tax law because it does not necessitate legislation and can be more efficient, given the complexities of tax law.[1]
The Nigerian government has a duty to protect its people from any form of harm to human health through the use and purchase of items to meet daily needs. In light of this, the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), whose aim is to protect and enhance consumers' interest through information, education, and enforcement of the rights of consumers was established by an Act of Parliamentto promote and protect the interest of consumers over all products and services. In a nutshell, it is empowered to eliminate hazardous & substandard goods from the market. Provide speedy redress to consumer complaints and petition arisen from fraud, unfair practice and exploitation of the consumer.
"Missouri Revisor of Statutes - Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo, Missouri Law, MO Law"
Lewis D. Eigen, "A Solution to the Problem of Consumer Contracts That Cannot be Understood by Consumers Who Sign Them", Scriptamus, 2009.
^ "Consumer's Rights to Cancel Home Solicitation Contracts K-9 - California Department of Consumer Affairs". www.dca.ca.gov. California Department of Consumer Affairs. September 2010.
"The Massachusetts Consumer Protection Law". Mass.gov. Retrieved 12 April 2020.
Fair Credit Reporting Act (FRCA) – regulates the collection, dissemination, and use of consumer credit information
1Consumer law											Toggle Consumer law subsection																					1.1Australia																											1.2Brazil																											1.3Germany																											1.4India																											1.5Nigeria																											1.6Taiwan																											1.7United Kingdom																											1.8United States
Consumer Protection issues were dealt with by the Office of Fair Trading before 2014. Since then, the Competition and Markets Authority has taken on this role.[11]
"Buyer's Remorse: The FTC's Cooling-Off Rule May Help". Consumer Advice. 16 May 2021. Retrieved 26 August 2022.
Pure Food and Drug Act – led to the creation of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to regulate foods, drugs, and more.
^ Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001, retrieved 3 July 2019
^ "DFR - BVerwGE 71, 183 - Transparenzliste". Archived from the original on 19 February 2007. Retrieved 11 July 2006.
The refund policy is not clearly posted where it can be readily noticed and understood
Indian Contract Act, 1872 lays down the conditions in which promises made by parties to a contract will be legally binding on each other. It also lays down the remedies available to the aggregate party if the other party fails to honor their promise.
Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001, retrieved 3 July 2019
Consumer protection is linked to the idea of consumer rights and to the formation of consumer organizations, which help consumers make better choices in the marketplace and pursue complaints against businesses. Entities that promote consumer protection include government organizations (such as the Federal Trade Commission in the United States), self-regulating business organizations (such as the Better Business Bureaus in the US, Canada, England, etc.), and non-governmental organizations that advocate for consumer protection laws and help to ensure their enforcement (such as consumer protection agencies and watchdog groups).[citation needed]
United States National Do Not Call Registry – allows US consumers to limit telemarketing calls they receive.
"Consumer's Rights to Cancel Home Solicitation Contracts K-9 - California Department of Consumer Affairs"
^ "The Massachusetts Consumer Protection Law". Mass.gov. Retrieved 11 April 2020.
"EU law and the balance of competences: A short guide and glossary, 2012". Foreign & Commonwealth Office. Retrieved 20 April 2016.
In India, consumer protection is specified in The Consumer Protection Act, 2019. Under this law, Separate Consumer Dispute Redress Forums have been set up throughout India in every district in which a consumer can file their complaint on a simple paper with nominal court fees and their complaint will be decided by the Presiding Officer of the District Level.The complaint can be filed by both the consumer of a goods as well as of the services. An appeal could be filed to the State Consumer Disputes Redress Commissions and after that to the National Consumer Disputes Redresal Commission (NCDRC).[5]The procedures in these tribunals are relatively less formal and more people-friendly and they also take less time to decide upon a consumer dispute[6] when compared to the years-long time taken by the traditional Indian judiciary. In recent years, many effective judgments have been passed by some state and National Consumer Forums.
^ "Nebraska State Statutes - Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act". www.nebraskaautobody.com. Archived from the original on 17 January 2012. Retrieved 13 December 2011.
^ "EU law and the balance of competences: A short guide and glossary, 2012". Foreign & Commonwealth Office. Retrieved 20 April 2016.
^ "Buyer's Remorse: The FTC's Cooling-Off Rule May Help". Consumer Advice. 16 May 2021. Retrieved 26 August 2022.
The Sale of Goods Act of 1930 provides some safeguards to buyers of goods if goods purchased do not fulfill the express or implied conditions and warranties.
Other states have been the leaders in specific aspects of consumer protection. For example, Florida, Delaware, and Minnesota have legislated requirements that contracts be written at reasonable readability levels as a large proportion of contracts cannot be understood by most consumers who sign them.[20]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Van Loo, Rory (1 November 2019). "Broadening Consumer Law: Competition, Protection, and Distribution". Notre Dame Law Review. 95 (1): 211.
Digital Media Consumers' Rights Act (proposed) – would repeal the Digital Millennium Copyright Act
In Brazil, consumer protection is regulated by the Consumer's Defense Code (Código de Defesa do Consumidor),[2] as mandated by the 1988 Constitution of Brazil. Brazilian law mandates "The offer and presentation of products or services must ensure correct, clear, accurate and conspicuous information in the Portuguese language about their characteristics, qualities, quantity, composition, price, guarantee, validity and origin, among other data, as well as the risks they pose to the health and safety of consumers."[3] In Brazil, the consumer does not have to bring forward evidence that the defender is guilty. Instead, the defense has to bring forward evidence that they are innocent.[2] In the case of Brazil, they narrowly define what a consumer, supplier, product, and services are, so that they can protect consumers from international channels trade laws and protect them from negligence and misconduct from international suppliers.
^ "815 ILCS 510/ Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act". www.ilga.gov.
Consumer Product Safety Act – gives the Consumer Product Safety Commissionthe power to develop safety standards and pursue recalls for products
"Section 9". The 191st general court of the commonwealth of Massachusetts. Retrieved 11 April 2020.
V. Balakrishna Eradi, "Consumer Protection and National Consumer Disputes Redress Commission" Archived 21 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine. New Delhi: National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. Accessed 25 June 2013.
^ V. Balakrishna Eradi, "Consumer Protection and National Consumer Disputes Redress Commission" Archived 21 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine. New Delhi: National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. Accessed 25 June 2013.
"DFR - BVerwGE 71, 183 - Transparenzliste". Archived from the original on 19 February 2007. Retrieved 11 July 2006.
Federal Trade Commission Act – created the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to prevent unfair competition, deceptive acts, regulate trade, etc.
^ "TITLE 6 - CHAPTER 25. PROHIBITED TRADE PRACTICES - Subchapter III. Deceptive Trade Practices". delcode.delaware.gov.
"TITLE 6 - CHAPTER 25. PROHIBITED TRADE PRACTICES - Subchapter III. Deceptive Trade Practices"
"Nebraska State Statutes - Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act". www.nebraskaautobody.com. Archived from the original on 17 January 2012. Retrieved 13 December 2011.
The Agriculture Produce Act of 1937 act provides grade standards for agricultural commodities and livestock products. It specifies the conditions which govern the use of standards and lays down the procedure for grading, marking and packaging of agricultural produce. The quality mark provided under the act is known as AGMARK-Agriculture Marketing.
When issuing public warnings about products and services, the issuing authority has to take into account that this affects the supplier's constitutionally protected economic liberty, see Bundesverwaltungsgericht (Federal Administrative Court) Case 3 C 34.84, 71 BVerwGE 183.[4]
"The Massachusetts Consumer Protection Law". Mass.gov. Retrieved 11 April 2020.
"EU law and the balance of competences: A short guide and glossary, 2012"
"Consumer's Rights to Cancel Home Solicitation Contracts K-9 - California Department of Consumer Affairs". www.dca.ca.gov. California Department of Consumer Affairs. September 2010.
"A Solution to the Problem of Consumer Contracts That Cannot be Understood by Consumers Who Sign Them"
At the state level, many states have adopted the Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act[12] including, but not limited to, Delaware,[13] Illinois,[14] Maine,[15] and Nebraska.[16] The deceptive trade practices prohibited by the Uniform Act can be roughly subdivided into conduct involving either a) unfair or fraudulent business practice and b) untrue or misleading advertising. The Uniform Act contains a private remedy with attorneys fees for prevailing parties where the losing party "willfully engaged in the trade practice knowing it to be deceptive". Uniform Act §3(b).Missouri has a similar statute called the Merchandising Practices Act.[17]This statute allows local prosecutors or the Attorney General to press charges against people who knowingly use deceptive business practices in a consumer transaction and authorizes consumers to hire a private attorney to bring an action seeking their actual damages, punitive damages, and attorney's fees.
^ Lewis D. Eigen, "A Solution to the Problem of Consumer Contracts That Cannot be Understood by Consumers Who Sign Them", Scriptamus, 2009.
A consumer is defined as someone who acquires goods or services for direct use or ownership rather than for resale or use in production and manufacturing. Consumer interests can also serve consumers, consistent with economic efficiency, but this topic is treated in competition law. Consumer protection can also be asserted via non-government organization's and individuals as consumer activism.
Consumer protection is the practice ofsafeguarding buyers of goods and services, and the public, against unfair practices in the marketplace. Consumer protection measures are often established by law. Such laws are intended to prevent businesses from engaging in fraud or specified unfair practices in order to gain an advantage over competitors or to mislead consumers. They may also provide additional protection for the general public which may be impacted by a product (or its production) even when they are not the direct purchaser or consumer of that product. For example, government regulations may require businesses to disclose detailed information about their products—particularly in areas where public health or safety is an issue, such as with food or automobiles.
Division 2 of Part 2 of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001[24] in relation to financial services and products.
This page was last edited on 7 January 2023, at 23:36 (UTC).
About Econsumer.gov, a portal for consumers to report complaints concerning online and related transactions with foreign companies
"The Taiwan Consumer Protection Law: Attempt to Protect Consumers Proves Ineffective"
A business fails to tell you relevant information regarding your product or service misleads you in any way.[22]
Considering the state of Massachusetts, the Massachusetts Consumer Protection Law, MGL 93A, clearly highlights the rights and violations of consumer protection law in the state. The chapter explains what actions are considered illegal under the law for which a party can seek money damages from the other party at fault.[21] Some examples of practices that constitute a Chapter 93A violation would be when:
In Australia, the corresponding agency is the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission or the individual State Consumer Affairs agencies. The Australian Securities and Investments Commission has responsibility for consumer protection regulation of financial services and products. However, in practice, it does so through privately run EDR schemes such as the Australian Financial Complaints Authority.
"Missouri Revisor of Statutes - Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo, Missouri Law, MO Law". www.moga.mo.gov.
In the United States a variety of laws at both the federal and state levels regulate consumer affairs. Among them are the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Truth in Lending Act, Fair Credit Billing Act, and the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act. Federal consumer protection laws are mainly enforced by the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Food and Drug Administration, and the U.S. Department of Justice.
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) – eliminates abusive consumer practices, ensure fairness, etc.
^ "Laws & Regulations Database of The Republic of China". law.moj.gov.tw.
The United Kingdom has left the European Union, but during the transition period (until end of 2020) the UK was still bound by directives of the European Union. Specifics of the division of roles between the EU and the UK are detailed here.[10] Domestic (UK) laws originated within the ambit of contract and tort but, with the influence of EU law, it is emerging as an independent area of law. In many circumstances, where domestic law is in question, the matter is judicially treated as tort, contract, restitution or even criminal law.[citation needed]
Also, the majority of states have a Department of Consumer Affairs devoted to regulating certain industries and protecting consumers who use goods and services from those industries.For example, in California, the California Department of Consumer Affairs regulates about 2.3 million professionals in over 230 different professions, through its forty regulatory entities. In addition, California encourages its consumers to act as private attorneys general through the liberal provisions of its Consumers Legal Remedies Act.
A Business charges a consumer higher rates than the marked price
^(PDF). 21 August 2010 https://web.archive.org/web/20100821232355/http://www.law.upenn.edu/bll/archives/ulc/fnact99/1920_69/rudtpa66.pdf. Archived from the original (PDF) on 21 August 2010. {{cite web}}: Missing or empty |title= (help)
^ "New competition authority comes into existence". 1 October 2013. Retrieved 15 January 2020.
^ a b "The Massachusetts Consumer Protection Law". Mass.gov. Retrieved 12 April 2020.
The long title of the Act reads: "This Act establishes the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission and the Competition and Consumer Protection Tribunal for the promotion of competition in the Nigerian market at all levels by eliminating monopolies, prohibiting abuse of dominant market position and penalizing other restrictive trade and business practices."The Act further repealed the hitherto Nigerian Consumer Protection Council Act and transferred its core mandate to the new Commission.
Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) – prohibits kickbacks and requires lenders to provide a good faith estimate of costs
"Laws & Regulations Database of The Republic of China". law.moj.gov.tw.
On 5 February 2019, the President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, assented to the new Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission Bill, 2018. Thus, the bill became a law of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and binding on entities and organizations so specified in the Act.
^ Carol T. Juang, "The Taiwan Consumer Protection Law: Attempt to Protect Consumers Proves Ineffective" Pacific Rim Law & Policy Association, 1997.
^ "Section 9". The 191st general court of the commonwealth of Massachusetts. Retrieved 11 April 2020.
According to the Pacific Rim Law & Policy Association and the American Chamber of Commerce, in a 1997 critical study, the law has been criticized by stating that "although many agree that the intent of the CPL is fair, the CPL's various problems, such as ambiguous terminology, favoritism towards consumer protection groups, and the compensation liability defense, must be addressed before the CPL becomes a truly effective piece of legislation that will protect consumers"[9]
Digital Millennium Copyright Act – prohibits production or sale of devices or services intended to circumvent copyright measures.
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) – provides consumer protection for health information
State and federal laws provide for "cooling off" periods giving consumers the right to cancel contracts within a certain time period for several specified types of transactions, potentially including transactions entered into at home, and warranty and repair services contracts.[18][19]
Di inferi, ancient Roman deities associated with death and the Underworld
"The counterpart to these deities of sky, air, water, and earth was the underworld, the realm of the dead, originally seen as ruled by the powerful Goddess Ereshkigal." Ruether, Rosemary Radford. Goddesses and the Divine Feminine: A Western Religious History. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 0-520-23146-5
Nehebkau, the primordial snake and funerary god associated with the afterlife, and one of the forty-two assessors of Maat
Freyja, presides over Fólkvangr; chooses half of those who die in battle
In monotheistic religions, the one god governs both life and death (as well as everything else). However, in practice this manifests in different rituals and traditions and varies according to a number of factors including geography, politics, traditions, and the influence of other religions.
Cihuateteo (Aztec mythology), Divine women. Spirits of women who died during labor.
Bimmolog, H., Sallong, L., Montemayor, L. (2005). The Deities of the Animistic Religion of Mayaoyao, Ifugao.
^ "Classical Mythology: Hades Takes a Wife: Persephone". InfoPlease. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
NecrosisAvascular necrosisCoagulative necrosisLiquefactive necrosisGangrenous necrosisCaseous necrosisFat necrosisFibrinoid necrosisTemporal lobe necrosis
Badadum - deity in Waray mythology that gathers family members at the mouth of a river to make a farewell to the deceased[28]
Coatlicue (Aztec mythology), minor goddess of death, as well as the goddess of life and rebirth
Achlys, goddess who symbolizes the mist of death. Goddess of poisons, personification of misery and sadness.
Macaria, goddess of the blessed death (not to be confused with the daughter of Heracles)[11]
Pangilinan, M. (2014–2020). An Introduction to the Kapampángan Language; Interview on Láwû. Sínúpan Singsing: Center for Kapampángan Cultural Heritage.
Amokye, Psychopomp in Akan religion who fishes the souls of the dead from the river leading to Asamando, the Akan underworld
^ "KALMA - the Finnish Goddess of Death (Finnish mythology)". godchecker.com. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
Kalma, Finnish goddess of death and decay, her name meaning "the stench of corpses"[17]
The rest only have surnames including Li, Yu, Lu, Bi, Lu and Xue.
^ a b Kveldulf Gundarsson. (1993, 2005) Our Troth. ISBN 0-9770165-0-1
^ "After consulting his mistress Ereshkigal, the queen of the Nether World, he admits Ishtar" Kramer, "Ishtar in the Nether World According to a New Sumerian Text" Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research. 1940. Google scholar results as the JSTOR link is unlikely to be universally available.
4Asia-Pacific / Oceania											Toggle Asia-Pacific / Oceania subsection																					4.1Far East Asia																								4.1.1Chinese																											4.1.2Japanese
Jocano, F. L. (1969). Philippine Mythology. Quezon City: Capitol Publishing House Inc.
^ M. Krebernik,dU.GUR [in] Reallexikon der Assyriologie und vorderasiatischen Archäologie vol 14, 2014, p. 297
Mictlantecuhtli (Aztec mythology), the chief death god; lord of the Underworld[30]
Jocano, F. L. (1968). Sulod Society. Quezon City: U.P. Press.
Sidapa (Bisaya mythology): the goddess of death; co-ruler of the middleworld called Kamaritaan, together with Makaptan[19]
Batara Kala (Balinese mythology), god of the underworld in traditional Javanese and Balinese mythology, ruling over it in a cave along with Setesuyara. Batara Kala is also named the creator of light and the earth. He is also the god of time and destruction, who devours unlucky people. He is related to Hindu concept of Kala, or time. In mythology, he causes eclipses by trying to eat the Sun or the Moon.
San Pascualito, folk saint and god of death in Guatemala and Mexico
Enmesharra, a primordial deity described as "lord of the underworld"
Izanami, when she died she became queen of the underworld, Yomi, and goddess of the dead.
In the manga and anime, Death Note, gods of death (shinigami) exist in their own realm and are owners of Death Notes, which are used to kill humans. When a note falls into the human world, the person who touches it first becomes the new owner of the note, can recognize the god of death to whom it belongs, and the god follows them for the rest of their life. However, shinigami are more like Grim Reapers with freakish appearances than deities who are worshiped. This is because shinigami are a fairly recent concept in Japanese folklore directly inspired by the European figure of the Grim Reaper, and thus, aren't "true" death gods. Despite their Western origin, many people will refer to both the Death Note characters and the folklorical shinigami using the Japanese name instead of the English translation or even "Grim Reaper". For similar cases of shinigami being more akin to Grim Reapers in anime, see Bleach (anime) and Soul Eater (anime).
The dwelling one went to after death varied depending on where one died, at the battlefield or not. If not at the battlefield, one would go to Hel (not to be confused with the Christian Hell). Of the slain at the battlefield, some went to Folkvang, the dwelling of Freyja and some went to Valhalla, the dwelling of Odin (see Grímnismál). The ninth hall is Folkvang, where bright Freyja. Decides where the warriors shall sit. Some of the fallen belong to her. And some belong to Odin.
Sitan - god and caretaker of the underworld realm for evil souls known as Kasamaan in Tagalog mythology. Maca, the realm of the good dead, is jointly ruled by Sitan and Bathala.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Anubis - Anubis AKA Inpu, Anupu, or Ienpw". Archived from the original on 2012-10-26. Retrieved 2012-10-30.
^ a b The dwelling one went to after death varied depending on where one died, at the battlefield or not. If not at the battlefield, one would go to Hel (not to be confused with the Christian Hell). Of the slain at the battlefield, some went to Folkvang, the dwelling of Freyja and some went to Valhalla, the dwelling of Odin (see Grímnismál). The ninth hall is Folkvang, where bright Freyja. Decides where the warriors shall sit. Some of the fallen belong to her. And some belong to Odin.
Pamulak Manobo (Bagobo mythology): supreme deity who controls good harvest, rain, wind, life, and death; in some myths, the chief deity is simply referred as the male deity, Diwata[19]
"THANATOS - Greek God of Death (Roman Mors)". Theoi.com. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
Maya death gods known under various names (Hunhau, Uacmitun Ahau, Ah Puch, Kisin, Yum Kimil)
Cayat, G. C. Manuscript on Kalanguya Cultural Communities. National Commission for Culture and the Arts.
Jaimoukha, Amjad M. (2005-03-01). The Chechens: a handbook (1st ed.). Routledge. p. 110. ISBN 978-0-415-32328-4. Retrieved 2009-08-14.
Mictecacihuatl (Aztec mythology),[29] the chief death goddess; Queen of Mictlan (underworld) or Lady of the Dead
"Psychopomps (Death Guides) of the Philippines". Aswangproject.com. 9 March 2017. Retrieved 6 November 2021.
In A Song of Ice and Fire by George R.R. Martin, the guild of assassins known as the Faceless Men believe that all death deities are simply different incarnations of the same god, known to them as the Many-Faced God or Him of Many Faces, while the Faith of the Seven worships The Stranger as one of Seven Aspects of God representing Death and the Unknown.
^ Cayat, G. C. Manuscript on Kalanguya Cultural Communities. National Commission for Culture and the Arts.
Asto Vidatu or Astiwihad or Asto-widhatu, death deity (Persian mythology)[15]
Mama Guayen - ferries souls to the end of the world in Ilonggo mythology[28]
^ Bimmolog, H., Sallong, L., Montemayor, L. (2005). The Deities of the Animistic Religion of Mayaoyao, Ifugao.
Wepwawet, a wolf god of war, and brother of Anubis, being seen as one who opened the ways to, and through, Duat, for the spirits of the dead
F. Wiggerman, Nergal A. philologisch [in:] Reallexikon der Assyriologie und vorderasiatischen Archäologie vol. 9, 1998, p. 220
In the series Malazan Book of the Fallen, Hood is the God of Death, and King of High House Death.
Tartarus, the darkest, deepest part of the underworld, often used for imprisoning enemies of the Olympians
Tagbayan (Ifugao mythology): divinities associated with death that feast on human souls that are guarded by two headed monsters called kikilan[19]
The Transformers mythos features the character of Mortilus, a Cybertronian deity who represents death and who later betrayed his brethren and was destroyed, leading to the longevity of the Transformer race. A similar character is The Fallen, a member of the Thirteen Primes who is identified as the guardian of entropy.
Erebus, the primordial god of darkness, his mists encircled the underworld and filled the hollows of the earth
Ereshkigal (Sumerian mythology, Akkadian mythology, Babylonian mythology),[3][4] first lady of the Underworld
^ Micha F. Lindemans (27 July 1997), "Asto Vidatu", Encyclopedia Mythica
San La Muerte, folk saint and god of death in Paraguay, Argentina, and Brazil
Duchesne-Guillemin, Jacques (1982), "Ahriman", Encyclopaedia Iranica, vol. 1, New York: Routledge & Kegan Paul, pp. 670–673
"TUONI - the Finnish God of the Underworld (Finnish mythology)". godchecker.com. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
M. Krebernik,dU.GUR [in] Reallexikon der Assyriologie und vorderasiatischen Archäologie vol 14, 2014, p. 297
^ F. Wiggermann, Transtigridian Snake Gods [in:] I. L. Finkel, M. J. Geller (eds.), Sumerian Gods and their Representations, 1997, p. 34
Death is the name of one of "The Endless" in the DC Universe.[31]
Malakal Maut (Maranao mythology): the angel of death; takes the souls of someone after three to seven days from the falling of the person's leaf from the sacred Sadiarathul Montaha tree in the realm called Sorga; appears either a handsome prince or a grotesque monsters, depending if the soul he is getting comes from a sinner or a virtuous person; punishes the souls of sinners until final judgment, while lifting up the souls of the good onto heaven[27]
"TUONI - the Finnish God of the Underworld (Finnish mythology)"
In the works of J. R. R. Tolkien, especially The Silmarillion, Námo a.k.a. Lord Mandos is the Doomsman of the Valar, Judge of the Dead and Lord of the Halls of Mandos (where Elves await reincarnation and humans retreat before making the Journey into the Beyond).
Kanisurra, a goddess whose name is derived from the term "ganzer," referring to the underworld (Mesopotamian)
Arbues, L. R. (1960). Philippine Sociological Review Vol. 8, No. 1/2: The Negritos as a Minority Group in the Philippines. Philippine Sociological Society.
Owuo, Akan God of Death and Destruction. Name literally means death in the Akan language
^ a b c "Psychopomps (Death Guides) of the Philippines". Aswangproject.com. 9 March 2017. Retrieved 6 November 2021.
^ Talaguit, C. J. N. (2019). Folk-Islam in Maranao Society. History Department, De La Salle University – Manila.
^ Duchesne-Guillemin, Jacques (1982), "Ahriman", Encyclopaedia Iranica, vol. 1, New York: Routledge & Kegan Paul, pp. 670–673
Fulor (Ifugao mythology): a wood carved into an image of a dead person seated on a death chair; an antique which a spirit in it, who bring sickness, death, and unsuccessful crops when sacrifices are not offered[20]
Styx, goddess of the river Styx, a river that formed a boundary between the living and the dead
Xipe Totec (Aztec mythology), hero god, death god; inventor of warfare and master of plagues
"HADES (Haides) - Greek God of the Dead, King of the Underworld (Roman Pluto)". Theoi.com. Retrieved 6 November 2021.
In the Marvel Comics Universe, the personification of death is Mistress Death.
Binangewan (Aeta mythology): spirits who bring change, sickness, and death as punishment[22]
Enma, god and ruler of the dead in Japanese Buddhism
^ "Mictecacihuatl | Goddess a Day". Archived from the original on 2013-03-15. Retrieved 2012-10-30.
Odin[8][9] presides over Valhalla and gets half of those who die in battle; there they train for Ragnarok
In the 2018 Nintendo published title Kirby Star Allies a Butterfly is revealed to be the embodiment of death, ruling the underworld after atomizing and absorbing Galacta Knight to become Morpho Knight. Very little is known about it but it is awaiting something called the Day of Judgement.
3.1European																								3.1.1Albanian																											3.1.2Balto-Finnic																											3.1.3Balto-Slavic																											3.1.4Basque																											3.1.5Celtic																											3.1.6Norse-Germanic																											3.1.7Etruscan																											3.1.8Greek																											3.1.9Roman
"HADES (Haides) - Greek God of the Dead, King of the Underworld (Roman Pluto)"
^ "MACARIA (Makaria) - Greek Goddess of Blessed Death". Theoi.com. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
Seker, a falcon god of the Memphite necropolis who was known as a patron of the living, as well as a god of the dead. He is known to be closely tied to Osiris
Hecate, goddess of witchcraft, she helped Demeter in the search for Persephone and was allowed to live in the Underworld as her magic works best at night
Talaguit, C. J. N. (2019). Folk-Islam in Maranao Society. History Department, De La Salle University – Manila.
In Nintendo's Metroid franchise one of the bosses, Ridley, is also known as "the Cunning God of Death".
Inshushinak (Elamite mythology; also present in the Mesopotamian An-Anum god list.[5])
"After consulting his mistress Ereshkigal, the queen of the Nether World, he admits Ishtar" Kramer, "Ishtar in the Nether World According to a New Sumerian Text" Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research. 1940. Google scholar results as the JSTOR link is unlikely to be universally available.
Magwayen - the goddess of afterlife and the first ocean deity, according to Visayan mythology. Known for being the goddess who collects souls and takes them to Sulad with her boat. The souls are initially transferred to her via Pandaki, who gets the soul from Sidapa.
Sidapa (Hiligaynon mythology): god who lives in the sacred Mount Madia-as; determines the day of a person's death by marking every newborn's lifespan on a very tall tree on Madya-as[25]
^ "Mictlantecuhtli, Lord of the Land of the Death". Azteccalendar.com. Retrieved 6 November 2021.
Loarca, Miguel de. (1582) 1903. Relation of the Filipinas Islands. In Blair and Robertson, The Philippine Islands 5.
^ F. Wiggerman, Nergal A. philologisch [in:] Reallexikon der Assyriologie und vorderasiatischen Archäologie vol. 9, 1998, p. 220
Kumakatok - hooded and cloaked harbingers of death that would knock on doors of the dying in Tagalog mythology
2Africa and the Middle East											Toggle Africa and the Middle East subsection																					2.1Sub-Sahara Africa																								2.1.1Igbo																											2.1.2Yoruba																											2.1.3Akan																														2.2Afroasiatic Africa																								2.2.1Somali																														2.3Afroasiatic Middle East																								2.3.1Canaanite																											2.3.2Egyptian																											2.3.3Mesopotamian
Santa Muerte, folk saint and goddess of death in Mexico
"MACARIA (Makaria) - Greek Goddess of Blessed Death". Theoi.com. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
Charon, a daimon who acted as ferryman of the dead.
7Southeast Asian mythology											Toggle Southeast Asian mythology subsection																					7.1Philippines																											7.2Vietnam
A death deity has a good chance of being either male or female, unlike some functions that seem to steer towards one gender in particular, such as fertility and earth deities being female and storm deities being male. A single religion/mythology may have death gods of more than one gender existing at the same time and they may be envisioned as a married couple ruling over the afterlife together, as with the Aztecs, Greeks, and Romans.
Limos was the goddess of starvation in ancient Greek religion. She was opposed by Demeter, goddess of grain and the harvest with whom Ovid wrote Limos could never meet, and Plutus, the god of wealth and the bounty of rich harvests.[1]
"Classical Mythology: Hades Takes a Wife: Persephone". InfoPlease. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
"Mictlantecuhtli, Lord of the Land of the Death". Azteccalendar.com. Retrieved 6 November 2021.
Serapis, Graeco-Egyptian syncretistic deity, combining elements of Osiris, the Apis Bull, Hades, Demeter, and Dionysus. Also, patron of the Ptolemaic Kingdom and Alexandria
Atropos, one of the moirai, who cut the thread of life.
Xolotl (Aztec mythology), god of sunset, fire, lightning, and death
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Anubis - Anubis AKA Inpu, Anupu, or Ienpw". Archived from the original on 2012-10-26. Retrieved 2012-10-30.
3Western Eurasia											Toggle Western Eurasia subsection																					3.1European																								3.1.1Albanian																											3.1.2Balto-Finnic																											3.1.3Balto-Slavic																											3.1.4Basque																											3.1.5Celtic																											3.1.6Norse-Germanic																											3.1.7Etruscan																											3.1.8Greek																											3.1.9Roman																														3.2Western Asia																								3.2.1Elamite																											3.2.2Hindu-Vedic																											3.2.3Persian-Zoroastrian																														3.3Uralic
Aqen, a rarely mentioned deity in the Book of the Dead
^ "HADES (Haides) - Greek God of the Dead, King of the Underworld (Roman Pluto)". Theoi.com. Retrieved 6 November 2021.
^ "THANATOS - Greek God of Death (Roman Mors)". Theoi.com. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
Lakandánup (Kapampangan mythology): serpent goddess who comes during total eclipses; followed by famine; eats a person's shadow, which will result in withering and death; daughter of Áring Sínukuan and Dápu[24]
Orcus, punisher of broken oaths; usually folded in with Pluto
F. Wiggermann, Transtigridian Snake Gods [in:] I. L. Finkel, M. J. Geller (eds.), Sumerian Gods and their Representations, 1997, p. 34
^ Jaimoukha, Amjad M. (2005-03-01). The Chechens: a handbook (1st ed.). Routledge. p. 110. ISBN 978-0-415-32328-4. Retrieved 2009-08-14.
"Mictecacihuatl | Goddess a Day". Archived from the original on 2013-03-15. Retrieved 2012-10-30.
Kabunyan (Kalanguya mythology): the almighty creator; also referred to as Agmattebew, the spirit who could not be seen; the mabaki ritual is held in the deity's honor during planting, harvesting, birth and death of the people, and other activities for livelihood[21]
Patag'aes (Suludnon mythology): awaits until midnight then enters the house to have a conversation with the living infant; if he discovers someone is eavesdropping, he will choke the child to death; their conversation creates the fate of the child, on how long the child wants to live and how the child will eventually die, where the child will always get to choose the answers; once done, Patag'aes takes out his measuring stick, computes the child's life span, and then departs, sealing the child's fate[26]
^ "TUONI - the Finnish God of the Underworld (Finnish mythology)". godchecker.com. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
^ Pangilinan, M. (2014–2020). An Introduction to the Kapampángan Language; Interview on Láwû. Sínúpan Singsing: Center for Kapampángan Cultural Heritage.
In the novel The Book Thief, Death is the narrator of the story.
Hypnos, personification of sleep, twin of Thanatos, his Roman counterpart is Somnus
(Note: in some versions, Xie Bi'an and Fanjiu are the Bai Wuchang and Hei Wuchang, respectively.)
Aring Sinukûan (Kapampangan mythology): sun god of war and death, taught the early inhabitants the industry of metallurgy, wood cutting, rice culture and even waging war[23]
Micha F. Lindemans (27 July 1997), "Asto Vidatu", Encyclopedia Mythica
Nergal (Sumerian mythology, Akkadian mythology, Babylonian mythology), second lord of the Underworld
Tlaloc (Aztec mythology), water god and minor death god; ruler of Tlalocan, a separate underworld for those who died from drowning
Death is the protagonist in the science fantasy novel On a Pale Horse, book one in a series of 8 books, the "Incarnations of Immortality".
In the Sailor Moon franchise, the last Sailor Guardian (of the Sol System) introduced is Sailor Saturn. Her powers revolve around destruction, ruin, and death and she can be thought of as a "god" of sorts (all Sailor Guardians can). Her weapon is the Silence Glaive that is capable of utterly obliterating and destroying entire worlds/planets if used to its maximum potential.
Anubis, guardian of the dead,[1] mummification, and the afterlife in ancient Egyptian religion
Persephone, queen of the underworld; wife of Hades and goddess of spring growth[12]
In the CW TV show Supernatural, Death makes a crucial appearance. He is portrayed as existing alongside God since the beginning of time and being so ancient he cannot remember when he came into existence; he may even be older than God. In the show he is the oldest and most powerful of the Four Horsemen (Death, Famine, War and Pestilence). He is not portrayed as a villain.
Death is a recurring character in the Discworld series written by Terry Pratchett. Books featuring Death include Mort, Reaper Man, Soul Music, Hogfather and Thief of Time. He also makes a cameo appearance in Interesting Times.
Viduus, god who separated the soul and body after death
In polytheistic religions which have a complex system of deities governing various natural phenomena and aspects of human life, it is common to have a deity who is assigned the function of presiding over death. This deity may actually take the life of humans or, more commonly, simply rule over the afterlife in that particular belief system (a single religion may have separate deities performing both tasks). The deity in question may be good, evil, or neutral and simply doing their job, in sharp contrast to a lot of modern portrayals of death deities as all being inherently evil just because death is feared. Hades from Greek mythology is an especially common target. The inclusion of such a "departmental" deity of death in a religion's pantheon is not necessarily the same thing as the glorification of death.
Nephthys(NebetHuet), Anubis' mother; sister of Osiris and Isis (Aset); also a guardian of the dead. She was believed to also escort dead souls to Osiris
This page was last edited on 12 March 2023, at 06:45 (UTC).
Hel,[8][9] goddess of the dead and queen of Helheim, where people who didn't die in battle or drown go after death
Huur, a messenger of Death who had the form of a large bird similar to Horus of ancient Egypt.
8American mythology											Toggle American mythology subsection																					8.1Aztec																											8.2Cahuilla																											8.3Guarani																											8.4Haida																											8.5Inca																											8.6Inuit																											8.7Latin American Folk Catholicism																											8.8Maya																											8.9Narragansett																											8.10Taíno																											8.11Umbanda and Candomblé																											8.12Haitian Vodou
"Anubis - Osiris AKA Un-nefer, or Khenti-Amentiu". Archived from the original on 2012-05-26. Retrieved 2012-10-30.
El Tío, lord of the underworld, in Cerro Rico, Bolivia
Serapis, Graeco-Egyptian syncretistic deity, combining elements of Osiris, the Apis Bull, Hades, Demeter, and Dionysus. Also, patron of the Ptolemaic Kingdom and Alexandria.
Asase Yaa, one half of an Akan Goddess of the barren places on Earth, Truth and is Mother of the Dead
Guan Yu (note: different from the famous general of three kingdoms)
^ Arbues, L. R. (1960). Philippine Sociological Review Vol. 8, No. 1/2: The Negritos as a Minority Group in the Philippines. Philippine Sociological Society.
Hangin (Hiligaynon mythology): the spirits of the death wind; takes the life of the elderly[25]
^ a b Loarca, Miguel de. (1582) 1903. Relation of the Filipinas Islands. In Blair and Robertson, The Philippine Islands 5.
^ "Anubis - Osiris AKA Un-nefer, or Khenti-Amentiu". Archived from the original on 2012-05-26. Retrieved 2012-10-30.
Mortja, personification of death. An equivalent of Grim Reaper.(Female)(Mortjet, plural)
Manduyapit - bring souls across a red river in Manobo mythology[28]
Rán, the sea goddess who collects the drowned in her net
^ Jocano, F. L. (1968). Sulod Society. Quezon City: U.P. Press.
"KALMA - the Finnish Goddess of Death (Finnish mythology)". godchecker.com. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
Many have incorporated a god of death into their mythology or religion. As death, along with birth, is among the major parts of human life, these deities may often be one of the most important deities of a religion. In some religions in which a single powerful deity is the object of worship, the death deity is an antagonist against whom the primary deity struggles. The related term death worship has most often been used as a derogatory term to accuse certain groups of morally abhorrent practices which set no value on human life. In monotheistic religions, death is commonly personified by an angel or demon instead of a deity.
Gefjon, a goddess who oversees those who die as virgins
Medjed, an unusual looking god mentioned in the Book of the Dead
^ "The counterpart to these deities of sky, air, water, and earth was the underworld, the realm of the dead, originally seen as ruled by the powerful Goddess Ereshkigal." Ruether, Rosemary Radford. Goddesses and the Divine Feminine: A Western Religious History. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 0-520-23146-5
^ a b c Jocano, F. L. (1969). Philippine Mythology. Quezon City: Capitol Publishing House Inc.
Assessors of Maat, charged with judging the souls of the dead in the afterlife
In the Warhammer fantasy battle universe of Games Workshop, Morr is the god of death.
^ Japanese salarymen fight back The New York Times - Wednesday, June 11, 2008
This page was last edited on 16 March 2023, at 05:10 (UTC).
Pfeffer, Jeffrey (20 March 2018). Dying for a Paycheck. pp. 63, (chapter 5). ISBN 9780062800923.
^ a b c Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "CNN: The Dangers of Overwork". YouTube.
"Japan's toxic culture of overwork drove a 31-year-old woman to death — and it looks like there's no end in sight"
Araki, Shunichi; Iwasaki, Kenji (2005). "Death Due to Overwork (Karoshi): Causation, health service, and life expectancy of Japanese males" (PDF). Japan Medical Association Journal. 48 (2): 92–98. Retrieved 19 January 2018.
The government, as the policy maker, should promote shorter working hours, make health services readily accessible, encourage voluntary health examination and enhance the effectiveness of medical care.
NecrosisAvascular necrosisCoagulative necrosisLiquefactive necrosisGangrenous necrosisCaseous necrosisFat necrosisFibrinoid necrosisTemporal lobe necrosis
Stress accumulated due to frustration at not being able to achieve the goals set by the company. Even in economic recession, companies tended to demand excessive sales efforts from their employees and require them to achieve better results. This increased the psychological burden placed on the employees at work.
RecessionGreat RecessionJob losses caused by the Great RecessionLists of recessionsRecession-proof job
^ "Case Study: Karoshi: Death from overwork". 23 April 2013. Retrieved 6 September 2017. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
"Premium Fridays: Japan gives its workers a break – to go shopping"
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy
In a 1988 report published by the Karoshi Hotline Network, the majority of the clients who consulted were not workers, but the wives of the workers who had either died because of karoshi or were at high risk of doing so.[14] This indicated that those who were stressed out by work either did not realize the cause was overwork or were under social pressure to not express it explicitly or to seek help.
^ Pfeffer, Jeffrey (20 March 2018). Dying for a Paycheck. pp. 63, (chapter 5). ISBN 9780062800923.
The first case of karoshi was reported in 1969 with the stroke-related death of a 29-year-old male worker in the shipping department of Japan's largest newspaper company.[6][7]
^ a b Persson, Karin (October 23, 2019). "Lek med döden – jobbstressen kan leda till fler dödsfall". Akademikern.
Mr. A worked at a major snack food processing company for as long as 110 hours a week (equivalent of four days and a half) and died from a heart attack at the age of 34. His death was recognized as work-related by the Labour Standards Office.
^ Ma, Alexandra. "Japan's toxic culture of overwork drove a 31-year-old woman to death — and it looks like there's no end in sight". Insider. Retrieved 2022-03-23. Work-related suicides among females and employees under 29 have also risen over the past few years[...]On Christmas Day 2015, 24-year-old ad agency employee Matsuri Takahashi jumped to her death [...] after working around 100 hours of overtime the month before. Weeks before her death, she posted on social media, according to the Guardian, to say: "I'm physically and mentally shattered" and "I want to die."On October 11, [...] a 23-year-old construction worker's suicide was karoshi, the Associated Press reported. The [...] man's body was found in the central Japan mountains in April, alongside a note that said he was "physically and mentally pushed to the limit."
Forced resignation, dismissal, and bullying. For example, employees who worked for a company for many years and saw themselves as loyal to the company were suddenly asked to resign because of the need for staff cutbacks.
There is a new movement of Japanese workers, formed as a result of karoshi. Compared to older Japanese people who often work overtime, young Japanese people are preferring part-time work. This is a new style of career choice for the young Japanese people who want to try out different jobs in order to figure out their own potential. These individuals work for "hourly wages rather than regular salaries," and are called "freeters." The number of freeters has increased throughout the years, from 200,000 in the 1980s to about 400,000 in 1997.[17]
Sjöström, Anna (May 30, 2019). "Allt fler dör till följd av arbetsrelaterad stress". Byggvärlden.
Mr. C worked in a large printing company in Tokyo for 4,320 hours a year including night work (equivalent of nearly six months, thus half a year) and died from a stroke at the age of 58. His widow received workers' compensation 14 years after her husband's death.
"Death Due to Overwork (Karoshi): Causation, health service, and life expectancy of Japanese males"
In Sweden the deaths due to excessive stress at work is expected to increase from the current level in the future.[2][3]A study conducted with researchers in cooperation with The Swedish work environment authority in 2019 concluded that 720 workers in Sweden already die due to stress from engaging in wage labour.[2] This study sparked an increased amount of public debate.[4][5][3]
"Killing Yourself To Make A Living: In Japan Financial Incentives Reward "Suicide""
In an International Labour Organization article about karoshi,[11] the following four typical cases of karoshi were mentioned:
"Karoshi-Death from overwork: Occupational health consequences of the Japanese production management"
Mr. B, a bus driver, whose death was also recognized as work-related, worked 3,000 hours a year (equivalent of four months). He did not have a day off in the 15 days before he had a stroke at the age of 37.
^ Pega, Frank; Náfrádi, Bálint; Momen, Natalie C.; Ujita, Yuka; Streicher, Kai N.; Prüss-Üstün, Annette M.; Descatha, Alexis; Driscoll, Tim; Fischer, Frida M.; Godderis, Lode; Kiiver, Hannah M.; Li, Jian; Magnusson Hanson, Linda L.; Rugulies, Reiner; Sørensen, Kathrine; Woodruff, Tracey J.; Woodruff, T. J. (2021-09-01). "Global, regional, and national burdens of ischemic heart disease and stroke attributable to exposure to long working hours for 194 countries, 2000–2016: A systematic analysis from the WHO/ILO Joint Estimates of the Work-related Burden of Disease and Injury". Environment International. 154: 106595. doi:10.1016/j.envint.2021.106595. ISSN 0160-4120. PMC 8204267. PMID 34011457.
^ a b Apel Röstlund, Johan (May 29, 2019). "500 arbetare dör av jobbstress varje år". Arbetaren.
Japanese salarymen fight back The New York Times - Wednesday, June 11, 2008
Persson, Karin (October 23, 2019). "Lek med döden – jobbstressen kan leda till fler dödsfall". Akademikern.
The phenomenon of death by overwork is also widespread in other parts of Asia. 745,194 deaths worldwide were attributable to long working hours in 2016, based on WHO/ILO data.[25]
"Recession Puts More Pressure on Japan's Workers". Bloomberg News. January 5, 2009. Archived from the original on January 7, 2015.
Kato, Tetsuro (1994). "The Political Economy of Japanese 'Karoshi' (Death from Overwork)". Hitotsubashi Journal of Social Studies. 26 (2): 41–54. JSTOR 43294355.
"Is Work Killing You? In China, Workers Die at Their Desks"
^ Adelstein, Jake. "Killing Yourself To Make A Living: In Japan Financial Incentives Reward "Suicide"". Archived from the original on 19 November 2016. Retrieved 18 November 2016.
Marioka, Koji (2004). "Work Till You Drop". New Labor Forum. 13 (1): 80–85. doi:10.1080/10957960490265782. JSTOR 40342456.
In 1988, the Labor Force Survey reported that almost one fourth of the male working employees worked over 60 hours per week (equivalent of over two-and-a-half days), which is 50% longer than a typical 40-hour (equivalent of a day and a half) weekly working schedule. Realizing the seriousness and widespread nature of this emerging problem, a group of lawyers and doctors set up "karoshi hotlines" that are nationally available, dedicating to help those who seek consultation on karoshi-related issues.[8]
Osburg, John (2013). Anxious Wealth: Money and Morality Among China's New Rich. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press. p. 140.
7In other countries											Toggle In other countries subsection																					7.1China																											7.2South Korea																											7.3Sweden
^ Osburg, John (2013). Anxious Wealth: Money and Morality among China's New Rich. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press. p. 24.
In China, the analogous "death by overwork" concept is guolaosi (simplified Chinese: 过劳死; traditional Chinese: 過勞死), which in 2014 was reported to be a problem in the country.[26]In Eastern Asian countries, like China, many businessmen work long hours and then feel the pressures of expanding and pleasing their networks. Making these connections is called building guanxi. Connections are a big part of the Chinese business world, and throughout different parts of China, businessmen would meet up in teahouses to take their job outside of the work atmosphere. It was important for businessmen to broaden their guanxi relationships, especially with powerful officials or bosses.[27]
^ Marioka, Koji (2004). "Work Till You Drop". New Labor Forum. 13 (1): 80–85. doi:10.1080/10957960490265782. JSTOR 40342456.
Söderqvist, Jonna (May 28, 2019). "Över 770 svenskar dör av stress varje år". Arbetarskydd.
Many companies have been making an effort to find a better work–life balance for their employees. Toyota Motor Company generally limits overtime to 360 hours a year (an average of 30 hours monthly), and, at some offices, issues public address announcements every hour after 7 p.m. pointing out the importance of rest and urging workers to go home. Nissan allows for remote work to make it easier to care for children or elderly parents.[10] Dozens of large corporations have also implemented "no overtime days", which require employees to leave the office promptly at 5:30 p.m. In 2007, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking, a division of Japan's largest banking group, started to allow employees to go home up to 3 hours early to care for children or elderly relatives. As of January 5, 2009, just 34 of the company's 7,000 employees had signed up for the plan.[10]
^ Oster, Shai (30 June 2014). "Is Work Killing You? In China, Workers Die at Their Desks". Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg.
"Lek med döden – jobbstressen kan leda till fler dödsfall"
The French-German TV channel Arte showed a documentary titled Alt in Japan (literal translation: "Old in Japan") on 6 November 2006 dealing with older workers in Japan. In 2008, karoshi again made headlines: a death back in 2006 of a key Toyota engineer who averaged over 80 hours overtime each month was ruled the result of overwork. His family was awarded benefits after his case was reviewed.[22]
"月加班 百小時 29歲工程師過勞死 - 蘋果日報". 26 September 2010. Retrieved 6 September 2017.
Oster, Shai (30 June 2014). "Is Work Killing You? In China, Workers Die at Their Desks". Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg.
There is a lot of pressure to go to these nightclubs almost every night to drink heavily to move up in the business world.[28] It has been shown that this kind of work could lead to health related problems down the line. For example, a businessman named Mr. Pan discussed with John Osburg, an anthropologist who wrote "Anxious Wealth: Money and Morality Among China's New Rich," about his health and the need to continue working. Mr. Pan, the 'biggest boss in Chengdu,' was in the hospital for 'excessive drinking.' This has happened to him before. Mr. Pan said, "I can't stop or slow down. I have many people whose livelihoods depend on me (literally 'depend on me to eat'). I've got about fifty employees and even more brothers. Their livelihoods depend on my success. I have to keep going."[29]
Suicide can be induced by overwork-related stress or when people are dismissed. The deceased person's families demand damages when such deaths occur. Life insurance companies started putting one-year exemption clauses in their contracts. They did this so that the person must wait one year to commit suicide in order for the family to receive the money.[16]
^ a b c d Sjöström, Anna (May 30, 2019). "Allt fler dör till följd av arbetsrelaterad stress". Byggvärlden.
^ "月加班 百小時 29歲工程師過勞死 - 蘋果日報". 26 September 2010. Retrieved 6 September 2017.
All-night, late-night or holiday work, both long and excessive hours. During the long-term economic recession after the collapse of the bubble economy in the 1980s and 1990s, many companies reduced the number of employees. The total amount of work, however, did not decrease, forcing each employee to work harder.
As the group that is more closely involved with the everyday health of employees, labor unions and employers should strive to implement and comply with government policies that focus on reducing work overtime and creating a better work environment.
^ Kato, Tetsuro (1994). "The Political Economy of Japanese 'Karoshi' (Death from Overwork)". Hitotsubashi Journal of Social Studies. 26 (2): 41–54. JSTOR 43294355.
Karoshi (Japanese: 過労死, Hepburn: Karōshi), which can be translated into "overwork death", is a Japanese term relating to occupation-related sudden death.[1]
Karoshi is also widespread in other parts of Asia and can be considered a worldwide occurrence with for example over 770 working people dying due to wage labour in Sweden annually (Sweden is known for comparatively good labour laws), the death toll is however expected to increase in the future.[2][3][4][5][3]
Pega, Frank; Náfrádi, Bálint; Momen, Natalie C.; Ujita, Yuka; Streicher, Kai N.; Prüss-Üstün, Annette M.; Descatha, Alexis; Driscoll, Tim; Fischer, Frida M.; Godderis, Lode; Kiiver, Hannah M.; Li, Jian; Magnusson Hanson, Linda L.; Rugulies, Reiner; Sørensen, Kathrine; Woodruff, Tracey J.; Woodruff, T. J. (2021-09-01). "Global, regional, and national burdens of ischemic heart disease and stroke attributable to exposure to long working hours for 194 countries, 2000–2016: A systematic analysis from the WHO/ILO Joint Estimates of the Work-related Burden of Disease and Injury". Environment International. 154: 106595. doi:10.1016/j.envint.2021.106595. ISSN 0160-4120. PMC 8204267. PMID 34011457.
^ Osburg, John (2013). Anxious Wealth: Money and Morality Among China's New Rich. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press. p. 140.
"Man, 45, died of overwork, Japanese labor bureau says". 10 July 2008. Retrieved 6 September 2017.
As well as physical pressure, mental stress from the workplace can cause karoshi.[12][13] People who die by suicide due to mental stress are called karōjisatsu (過労自殺).[12] The ILO also lists some causes of overwork or occupational stress that include the following:
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Case Study: Karoshi: Death from overwork". 2013-04-23. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ Ko Dong-hwan (27 February 2017). "[K-Terminology] Koreans being overworked to death in 'kwarosa'". Korea Times.
Japan's rise from the devastation of World War II to economic prominence and the huge war reparations they have paid in the post-war decades have been regarded as the trigger for what has been called a new epidemic. It was recognized that employees cannot work for 12 or more hours a day, 6–7 days a week, year after year, without suffering physically as well as mentally.[9][10]
^ Osburg, John (2013). Anxious Wealth: Money and Morality Among China's New Rich. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press. p. 141.
To provide a strategic plan to decrease the rate of karoshi, the National Institute of Health proposed the establishment of a comprehensive industrial health service program to reduce karoshi and other diseases caused by work-related stress in its 2005 annual report. The program requires communal efforts from the following groups:
McCurry, Justin (February 24, 2017). "Premium Fridays: Japan gives its workers a break – to go shopping". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077.
"Global, regional, and national burdens of ischemic heart disease and stroke attributable to exposure to long working hours for 194 countries, 2000–2016: A systematic analysis from the WHO/ILO Joint Estimates of the Work-related Burden of Disease and Injury"
^ Araki, Shunichi; Iwasaki, Kenji (2005). "Death Due to Overwork (Karoshi): Causation, health service, and life expectancy of Japanese males" (PDF). Japan Medical Association Journal. 48 (2): 92–98. Retrieved 19 January 2018.
Freeters undergo a special kind of employment, defined by Atsuko Kanai as those who are currently employed and referred to as "part-time workers or arbeit (temporary workers), who are currently employed but wish to be employed as part time workers, or who are currently not in the labor force and neither doing housework nor attending school but wish to be employed only as part-time workers."[18]
Ma, Alexandra. "Japan's toxic culture of overwork drove a 31-year-old woman to death — and it looks like there's no end in sight". Insider. Retrieved 2022-03-23. Work-related suicides among females and employees under 29 have also risen over the past few years[...]On Christmas Day 2015, 24-year-old ad agency employee Matsuri Takahashi jumped to her death [...] after working around 100 hours of overtime the month before. Weeks before her death, she posted on social media, according to the Guardian, to say: "I'm physically and mentally shattered" and "I want to die."On October 11, [...] a 23-year-old construction worker's suicide was karoshi, the Associated Press reported. The [...] man's body was found in the central Japan mountains in April, alongside a note that said he was "physically and mentally pushed to the limit."
Adelstein, Jake. "Killing Yourself To Make A Living: In Japan Financial Incentives Reward "Suicide"". Archived from the original on 19 November 2016. Retrieved 18 November 2016.
^ Haas, Benjamin (1 March 2018). "South Korea cuts 'inhumanely long' 68-hour working week". The Guardian – via www.theguardian.com.
Industrial Safety and Health Act (Act No. 57 of 1972) https://www.cas.go.jp/jp/seisaku/hourei/data/isha.pdf. Accessed: 22 Jan, 2018.
The Karoshi Hotline received the highest number of calls when it was first established in 1988. From 1988 to 1990, there were a total number of 1806 calls received. From 1990 to 2007, the number of calls received per year decreased, but still maintained an average of 400 calls per year.[15]
^ Katsuo Nishiyama and Jeffrey V. Johnson (February 4, 1997). "Karoshi-Death from overwork: Occupational health consequences of the Japanese production management". International Journal of Health Services. Archived from the original on February 14, 2009. Retrieved June 9, 2009.{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
Taiwanese media have reported a case of karoshi.[23] An engineer had worked for Nanya Technology for 3 years from 2006 to 2009. It was found that he died in front of his computer surrounded by company documents. The prosecution found that the engineer had died of cardiogenic shock. The engineer's parents said that he worked for 16–19 hours a day. CNN shows another reported case of karoshi in Taiwan.[24] This short clip called "The Dangers of Overwork" shows a man who suffered a stroke and was left for three hours before being taken to the hospital.[24] It was made known that physicians are starting to make people more aware of these health deficits due to overwork. More people have been visiting their doctor, recognizing signs and symptoms of overwork.[24]
^ a b c Söderqvist, Jonna (May 28, 2019). "Över 770 svenskar dör av stress varje år". Arbetarskydd.
"Case Study: Karoshi: Death from overwork". 23 April 2013. Retrieved 6 September 2017. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Ko Dong-hwan (27 February 2017). "[K-Terminology] Koreans being overworked to death in 'kwarosa'". Korea Times.
Suffering of middle management. They were often in a position to lay off workers and torn between implementing a corporate restructuring policy and protecting their staff.
"Karoshi - Institutet för språk och folkminnen". 2021-04-13. Archived from the original on 13 April 2021. Retrieved 2022-03-22.
^ McCurry, Justin (February 24, 2017). "Premium Fridays: Japan gives its workers a break – to go shopping". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077.
^ "Man, 45, died of overwork, Japanese labor bureau says". 10 July 2008. Retrieved 6 September 2017.
Dasgupta, Romit (2005). Salarymen doing straight: Heterosexual men and the dynamics of gender conformity. New York: Routledge. p. 170.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Case Study: Karoshi: Death from overwork". 2013-04-23. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ Dasgupta, Romit (2005). Salarymen doing straight: Heterosexual men and the dynamics of gender conformity. New York: Routledge. p. 170.
Haas, Benjamin (1 March 2018). "South Korea cuts 'inhumanely long' 68-hour working week". The Guardian – via www.theguardian.com.
The employees themselves should recognize the need to take rests regularly and take preventive measures as needed.[19]
In South Korea, the term gwarosa (Hangul: 과로사, Hanja: 過勞死; alternatively romanised as kwarosa) is also used to refer to death by overworking. South Korea has some of the longest working hours in the world, even more so than Japan with the average being 42.[30] This has caused many workers to feel the pressure of their jobs which has taken a toll on both their physical and mental health. Many have died from being overworked and the issue has only begun to gain more national attention due to many government workers having died from gwarosa.[31] In 2018, the South Korean government enacted a law cutting working hours from 68 to 52.[32]
^ Industrial Safety and Health Act (Act No. 57 of 1972) https://www.cas.go.jp/jp/seisaku/hourei/data/isha.pdf. Accessed: 22 Jan, 2018.
EducationContinuing educationE-learningEmployabilityFurther educationGraduate schoolInduction trainingKnowledge workerLicensureLifelong learningOverspecializationPractice-based professional learningProfessional associationProfessional certificationProfessional developmentProfessional schoolReflective practiceRetrainingVocational educationVocational schoolVocational university
Apel Röstlund, Johan (May 29, 2019). "500 arbetare dör av jobbstress varje år". Arbetaren.
Ms. D, a 22-year-old nurse, died from a heart attack after 34 hours of continuous duty five times a month.
The most common medical causes of karoshi deaths are heart attacks and strokes due to stress and malnourishment or fasting. Mental stress from the workplace can also cause karoshi through workers taking their own lives. The phenomenon of someone committing suicide due to overwork is called karōjisatsu (過労自殺).[1]
^ a b c "Recession Puts More Pressure on Japan's Workers". Bloomberg News. January 5, 2009. Archived from the original on January 7, 2015.
Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "CNN: The Dangers of Overwork". YouTube.
Osburg, John (2013). Anxious Wealth: Money and Morality Among China's New Rich. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press. p. 141.
In February 2017, the Japanese government launched a campaign called "Premium Friday" asking companies to allow their workers to leave at 3pm on the last Friday of the month. The initiative is part of an attempt to address the punishingly long hours many Japanese are expected to work, prompted by the suicide of a 24-year-old employee at the advertising firm Dentsu who was doing more than 100 hours' overtime in the months before her death. While some major companies, such as Honda, the drink maker Suntory and the confectioner Morinaga & Company, have adopted the optional scheme, others are less enthusiastic about the prospect of a mid-afternoon staff exodus. A survey of 155 big companies by the Nikkei business newspaper showed that 45% had no immediate plans to implement the scheme, with 37% saying they had either decided to enter into the spirit of Premium Friday or had plans to do so.[21]
Osburg, John (2013). Anxious Wealth: Money and Morality among China's New Rich. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press. p. 24.
Katsuo Nishiyama and Jeffrey V. Johnson (February 4, 1997). "Karoshi-Death from overwork: Occupational health consequences of the Japanese production management". International Journal of Health Services. Archived from the original on February 14, 2009. Retrieved June 9, 2009.{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
^ a b "Karoshi - Institutet för språk och folkminnen". 2021-04-13. Archived from the original on 13 April 2021. Retrieved 2022-03-22.
As a formal response to this proposal, the Industry Safety and Health Act was revised in 2006. The Act established various terms that focus on work-related health issues, including mandatory health checks and consultations with professional medical personnel for employees who work long hours and have a higher probability of having work related illnesses.[20]
