^ Gloege, Timothy (2015). Guaranteed Pure: The Moody Bible Institute, Business, and the Making of Modern Evangelicalism. Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press. ISBN 978-1-4696-3343-5.
Musser, Joe (1997). The Cereal Tycoon. Moody Press. ISBN 0-8024-1616-0, p.130-132.
Laats, Adam (2018). Fundamentalist U: Keeping the Faith in American Higher Education. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-066562-3.
Moody Bible Institute (MBI) is a private evangelical Christian[2][3] Bible college in Chicago, Illinois. It was founded by evangelist and businessman Dwight Lyman Moody in 1886. Historically, MBI has maintained positions that have identified it as non-charismatic, dispensational, and generally Calvinistic.[4] Today, MBI operates undergraduate programs and Moody Theological Seminary at the Chicago campus. The Seminary also operates a satellite campus in Plymouth, Michigan. Moody Aviation operates a flight school in Spokane, Washington.
In addition to its educational programs, Moody runs two Christian media ministries: Moody Radio and Moody Publishers. In 1894, Moody Publishers was founded under the name Bible Institute Colportage Association. In 1926 the Institute expanded its reach beyond education and publishing by sponsoring the first non-commercial Christian radio station in America, WMBI.[27] Over time, MBI's radio outreach grew to the Moody Broadcasting Network, which now owns and operates 36 commercial-free stations and provides programming via satellite to more than 700 outlets.
"Stewarding Real Estate Assets | 2030 Growth | Moody Bible Institute". www.moodybible.org. Retrieved 2022-10-20.
^ Laats, Adam (2018). Fundamentalist U: Keeping the Faith in American Higher Education. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-066562-3.
In addition to a Bachelor of Arts degree, which is available in over two dozen fields including theology, the Bible, and ministries of various emphases,[24] MBI offers a Bachelor of Science degree in Biblical Studies, a Bachelor of Science degree in Missionary Aviation Technology, a two-year Associates of Biblical Studies degree (ABS), and a five-year Bachelor of Music degree (BMus) in Sacred Music. Furthermore, non-degree TESOL and Biblical Studies one-year certificates are offered.
"MBI Administrators Fail to Uphold Doctrine: Hire, Then Fire Female Pastor/Oppose Profs Who Report Drift". Julie Roys. 2018-02-06. Retrieved 2019-04-10.
"U.S. Department of Education Database of Accredited Postsecondary Institutions and Programs"
^ "Moody Closes Magazine, Restructures Aviation Program". Christianitytoday.com. 2003-02-01. Retrieved 2015-04-23.
^ "Accredited Institutions Search". National Association of Schools of Music. Retrieved 2016-08-10.
"Grand River Solutions Title IX Review | Title IX | Moody Bible Institute"
"Moody Bible Institute Undergraduate School 2006-2008 Catalog" (PDF). Moody.edu. p. 67. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2006-09-03. Retrieved 2015-04-23.
George Thomas Kurian, Mark A. Lamport, Encyclopedia of Christian Education, Volume 3, Rowman & Littlefield, USA, 2015, p. 133
This page was last edited on 2 March 2023, at 20:02 (UTC).
^ "Moody Bible Institute Undergraduate School 2006-2008 Catalog" (PDF). Moody.edu. p. 67. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2006-09-03. Retrieved 2015-04-23.
^ Moody, William Revell (1900). D. L. Moody. Fleming H. Revell. p. 339. ISBN 9780665135835.
"Accredited Institutions Search". National Association of Schools of Music. Retrieved 2016-08-10.
"Moody Closes Magazine, Restructures Aviation Program". Christianitytoday.com. 2003-02-01. Retrieved 2015-04-23.
Vincent, James. The MBI Story: The Vision and Worldwide Impact of Moody Bible Institute. Moody Publishers, Chicago, 2011. page 20
Shellnutt, Kate (January 10, 2018). "Moody Bible President and COO Both Resign, Provost Retires". Christianity Today. Retrieved January 27, 2018.
^ "Grand River Solutions Title IX Review | Title IX | Moody Bible Institute". www.moody.edu. Retrieved 2022-10-19.
^ Anonymous (November 29, 2017). "An Open Letter". moodystandard.com. Retrieved April 10, 2019.
^ Lamelza, Judy. "JDL Development gets approval for Massive North Union Project". blog.databid.com. Retrieved 2022-10-20.
^ George Thomas Kurian, Mark A. Lamport, Encyclopedia of Christian Education, Volume 3, Rowman & Littlefield, USA, 2015, p. 133
"MBI Administrators Fail to Uphold Doctrine: Hire, Then Fire Female Pastor/Oppose Profs Who Report Drift"
^ "Member Colleges - Association for Biblical Higher Education". Archived from the original on 2016-05-05. Retrieved 2016-08-10.
^ "U.S. Department of Education Database of Accredited Postsecondary Institutions and Programs". ope.ed.gov. Retrieved 2018-12-10.
Lamelza, Judy. "JDL Development gets approval for Massive North Union Project". blog.databid.com. Retrieved 2022-10-20.
Before 1900, Moody played a significant role in fund-raising to support MBI. After Moody died, however, the institute struggled financially. James M. Gray, the president of the school, invited Henry Parsons Crowell to financially restructure the institute. Crowell established the school on business principles of productivity and performance. The MBI Executive Committee met nearly every Tuesday for the next 40 years. An administration building took years to complete, but when the building was dedicated there was no mortgage and only $50,000 left to pay.[7][when?]
^ Vincent, James. The MBI Story: The Vision and Worldwide Impact of Moody Bible Institute. Moody Publishers, Chicago, 2011. page 20
"404 - error". www.moody.edu. Archived from the original on May 4, 2011. {{cite web}}: Cite uses generic title (help)
"Moody Graduate School Catalog 2005–2007" (PDF). Moody.edu. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2006-09-01. Retrieved 2015-04-23.
^ "Merger Receives HLC Approval". Moody Bible Institute. Retrieved 2009-11-17.
^ Musser, Joe (1997). The Cereal Tycoon. Moody Press. ISBN 0-8024-1616-0, p.130-132.
Chicago Public SchoolsOgden International School East and Jenner campusesEdward Jenner School (merged)
^ "MBI Administrators Fail to Uphold Doctrine: Hire, Then Fire Female Pastor/Oppose Profs Who Report Drift". Julie Roys. 2018-02-06. Retrieved 2019-04-10.
"Stewarding Real Estate Assets | 2030 Growth | Moody Bible Institute"
"Grand River Solutions Title IX Review | Title IX | Moody Bible Institute". www.moody.edu. Retrieved 2022-10-19.
Shellnutt, Kate (November 9, 2017). "Moody Bible to Close Spokane Campus, Cut Chicago Faculty". News & Reporting. Retrieved April 10, 2019.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"College Navigator - Moody Bible Institute". nces.ed.gov.
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"College Navigator - Moody Bible Institute". nces.ed.gov.
Gloege, Timothy (2015). Guaranteed Pure: The Moody Bible Institute, Business, and the Making of Modern Evangelicalism. Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press. ISBN 978-1-4696-3343-5.
In November 2017, the institution announced the closure of its campus in Spokane, Washington, and reductions in other programs and services in response to continued drops in enrollment.[10] Faculty were distressed by impending job losses, and penned an anonymous letter to the administration in the student newspaper expressing concerns about faculty layoffs when the administration had just committed $22 million for a new campus building.[11] Two months later the president and Chief Operating Officer both resigned and the provost retired. In its announcement of these changes, the institution cited "widespread concerns over the direction" of the institution.[12]
^ "Moody Bible Institute". Currently or Previously Affiliated Institutions. The Higher Learning Commission. Retrieved 2013-11-30.
Moody, William Revell (1900). D. L. Moody. Fleming H. Revell. p. 339. ISBN 9780665135835.
The Moody Theological Seminary offers a Master of Divinity, Master of Arts in Biblical Studies, and a Master of Counseling/Psychology.[25] A one-year graduate certificate is also offered.
MBI's stated mission is to train students for full-time ministry in churches and parachurch organizations.[19] Since 1989 it has been accredited by the Higher Learning Commission or its predecessor.[20] It is also accredited by the Association for Biblical Higher Education and the National Association of Schools of Music.[21][22][23]
In November 2009, Moody Bible Institute and Michigan Theological Seminary jointly announced plans for Michigan Theological Seminary to merge with Moody Bible Institute's Moody Theological Seminary and Graduate School.[26] In January 2010, Michigan Theological Seminary became Moody Theological Seminary–Michigan located in Plymouth, Michigan.
Since 2012, MBI has received federal financial assistance, which means the religious institution is subject to federal rules, including Title IX, which prohibits sex-based discrimination. After several female students complained of being denied access to the then-male-only pastoral ministry program, the institute changed its policy in 2016.[8] However, professor Janay Garrick, who helped the students file Title IX complaints, found that her employment contract would not be renewed at the end of 2017. MBI engaged Grand River Solutions to review its Title IX compliance and make recommendations for change.[9]
"Moody Bible Institute". Currently or Previously Affiliated Institutions. The Higher Learning Commission. Retrieved 2013-11-30.
^ "Stewarding Real Estate Assets | 2030 Growth | Moody Bible Institute". www.moodybible.org. Retrieved 2022-10-20.
Anonymous (November 29, 2017). "An Open Letter". moodystandard.com. Retrieved April 10, 2019.
"U.S. Department of Education Database of Accredited Postsecondary Institutions and Programs". ope.ed.gov. Retrieved 2018-12-10.
On January 22, 1886, Moody addressed church members: "I tell you what, and what I have on my heart, I believe we have got to have gap-men: men to stand between the laity and the ministers; men who are trained to do city mission work. Take men that have the gifts and train them for the work of reaching the people."[5][6] As a result of this meeting, held at Farwell Hall, the group founded the Chicago Evangelization Society for the "education and training of Christian workers, including teachers, ministers, missionaries, and musicians who may completely and effectively proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ." The society was renamed "Moody Bible Institute" after Moody died in 1899.
Emma Dryer organized the "May Institute", a weekly meeting for prayer and fellowship, with Moody's permission in 1883. Participants in the May Institute encouraged Moody to found a school to train young people for evangelism to carry on the Christian revival tradition.
^ Shellnutt, Kate (November 9, 2017). "Moody Bible to Close Spokane Campus, Cut Chicago Faculty". News & Reporting. Retrieved April 10, 2019.
^ "Moody Graduate School Catalog 2005–2007" (PDF). Moody.edu. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2006-09-01. Retrieved 2015-04-23.
Gloege, Timothy E. W. Guaranteed Pure: The Moody Bible Institute, Business, and the Making of Modern Evangelicalism. (Chapel Hill, North Carolina: University of North Carolina Press, 2015).
^ "404 - error". www.moody.edu. Archived from the original on May 4, 2011. {{cite web}}: Cite uses generic title (help)
"Member Colleges - Association for Biblical Higher Education". Archived from the original on 2016-05-05. Retrieved 2016-08-10.
^ Shellnutt, Kate (January 10, 2018). "Moody Bible President and COO Both Resign, Provost Retires". Christianity Today. Retrieved January 27, 2018.
We could not find the above page on our servers.
Alternatively, you can visit the Main Page or read more information about this type of error.
This page was last edited on 7 March 2023, at 18:49 (UTC).
The National Christian College Athletic Association (NCCAA) is an association of Christian universities, colleges, and Bible colleges in the United States and Canada whose mission is"the promotion and enhancement of intercollegiate athletic competition with a Christian perspective".[1] The national headquarters is located in Greenville, South Carolina. The NCCAA was formed in 1968. For the 2022–2023 season, the NCCAA listed 90 members, 51 of which participate in Division I and 39 in Division II.[2] Many teams in the NCCAA are also in other athletics associations, including NCAA, NAIA, and ACCA.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"National Christian College Athletic Association - Faith Based Competition". Thenccaa.org. Retrieved August 15, 2014.
The association's sports for men are baseball, basketball, cross country, football, golf, soccer, tennis, and track and field (indoor/outdoor).Women's sports are basketball, cross country, golf, soccer, softball, tennis, track and field (indoor/outdoor), and volleyball. The NCCAA discontinued men's volleyball and wrestling.[3]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"National Christian College Athletic Association - Faith Based Competition". Thenccaa.org. Retrieved August 15, 2014.
Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent, third-party sources.
"National Christian College Athletic Association - Discontinued Sports". NCCAA. Retrieved August 15, 2014.
This article about a sports-related organization is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Victory Bowl is the organization's football championship bowl game.
^ "National Christian College Athletic Association - Discontinued Sports". NCCAA. Retrieved August 15, 2014.
The Chicago Guide to Your Academic Career: A Portable Mentor for Scholars from Graduate School Through Tenure
In Ireland, day-to-day operations of the universities are under the directorship of a president (a provost in the case of Trinity College Dublin). However, the president of each constituent university of the National University of Ireland also has the title of pro-vice-chancellor of the NUI.
McMillan, David (1968). Australian universities: a descriptive sketch. Taylor & Francis. p. 33.
In France, the president is the elected chair of the board and chief executive officer in universities. The president is always elected by the board among the professors of the university. The president serves a four-year term which is renewable once.[7] The chancellor is a servant of the Ministry of Education who supervises regional educational districts.[citation needed] There is no hierarchical relation between the president and the chancellor.
^ "Higher Education Act 101 of 1997". 4 July 2010. Retrieved 4 July 2010.
A "director" is the chief executive officer of a university or other educational institution. Equivalent names in different countries are vice-chancellor (many Commonwealth countries), chancellor (United States), principal (Scotland and Canada), and university president.
^ "The Oxford University Calendar 1817". 24 June 2017 – via Google Books.
The chancellor of University of Helsinki (the oldest, largest and most prestigious in Finland) has also the notable right to be present and to speak in the plenary meetings of the Council of State when matters regarding the university are discussed. Despite their role as the chancellor of only one university, they are often regarded as the political representative of Finland's entire university institution when they exercise their rights in the Council of State.
This page was last edited on 15 March 2023, at 13:47 (UTC).
In most stand-alone universities and colleges in the United States, the chief executive officer is called the president, while the second-most senior officer is called the provost, vice president of academic affairs, dean of faculties, or some other similar title.[9]
Smith, Kate (11 December 2017). "College Presidents Making $1 Million Rise With Tuition and Student Debt". Bloomberg News. Retrieved 13 December 2017.
^ Smith, Kate (11 December 2017). "College Presidents Making $1 Million Rise With Tuition and Student Debt". Bloomberg News. Retrieved 13 December 2017.
Loftin, R. Bowen (2018). "Leading a Public Flagship within a State System".In Trachtenberg, Stephen Joel; Kauvar, Gerald B.; Gee, E. Gordon (eds.). Leading Colleges and Universities: Lessons from Higher Education Leaders. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. pp. 245–252. ISBN 9781421424934. Retrieved 2 December 2020.
In Sri Lanka, all the government universities are administered by the vice-chancellor.
Other universities in the Philippines (such as state universities like Mindanao State University where each constituent campus is headed by chancellor) are mostly headed by their respective university presidents. Meanwhile, private (esp. Catholic) institutions are headed by a rector.
In Sudan and South Sudan, universities are administered by the vice-chancellor.
The average salary for college presidents in private, non-profit institutions in 2015 was $569,932, 9 percent higher than in 2014.[13]
Toncich, Dario (2008). Study and Learning in the Australian University System. Dario Toncich. pp. 60–70. ISBN 978-1-876665-02-9.
In most Commonwealth and former Commonwealth nations, the chancellor is usually a ceremonial non-resident head of the university. In such institutions, the chief executive of a university is the vice-chancellor, who may carry an additional title such as president (e.g. "president & vice-chancellor"). The chancellor may serve as chairperson of the governing body; if not, this duty is often held by a chairperson who may be known as a pro-chancellor.
"The Oxford University Calendar 1817". 24 June 2017 – via Google Books.
^ "Chief executive's HKU role should only be honorary, says panel". South China Morning Post. 23 February 2017. Retrieved 15 September 2017.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"The Private University Act, 1992". Südasien-Institut. Archived from the original on 17 December 2007. Retrieved 6 April 2011.
In Finland, if the university has a chancellor (Finnish: Kansleri, Swedish: Kansler), they are the leading official in the university. The duties of the chancellor are mainly to promote sciences and to look after the best interests of the university. As the rector of the university (Finnish: rehtori, Swedish: rektor) remains the de facto administrative leader and chief executive official, the role of the chancellor is more of a social, political and even historical nature. However some administrative duties still belong to the chancellor's jurisdiction despite their often arguably ceremonial nature. Examples of these include the appointment of new professors and docents.
"College Presidents Making $1 Million Rise With Tuition and Student Debt"
As said earlier, the vice-chancellor or the "grand vice-chancellor of the University of Santo Tomas" is only the deputy to the chancellor of the university, but the chancellor is usually a prominent public figure who is not always in the country (e.g., the chancellor of University of Santo Tomas is the current Master of the Order of Preachers, the current being Very Rev. Fr. Bruno Cadoré, OP, while the rector acts as the day-to-day chief executive). The current vice chancellor of UST is the Prior Provincial of the Philippine Dominican Province, Very Rev. Fr. Napoleon Sipalay, OP. The current rector of the university is Rev. Fr. Herminio V. Dagohoy, OP.
Datin Seri Jeanne Abdullah, the wife of the former Prime Minister of Malaysia, Datuk Seri Abdullah Ahmad Badawi was appointed as the new chancellor of Open University Malaysia to take over the role from the first chancellor, the late YBhg Datin Paduka Seri Endon Mahmood (Abdullah Badawi's first wife).
^ "Ministry of Education – Law/Act". Ministry of Education, Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Retrieved 6 April 2011.
"Two more private universities approved for Pune". The Times of India. Retrieved 3 July 2014.
Administrators: trustee, president, vice president, university principal, dean, provost, rector
Goldsmith, John A.; Komlos, John; Gold, Penny Schine (2001). The Chicago Guide to Your Academic Career: A Portable Mentor for Scholars from Graduate School Through Tenure. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. pp. 257–258. ISBN 9780226301495.
^ a b c d Goldsmith, John A.; Komlos, John; Gold, Penny Schine (2001). The Chicago Guide to Your Academic Career: A Portable Mentor for Scholars from Graduate School Through Tenure. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. pp. 257–258. ISBN 9780226301495.
1Chancellor											Toggle Chancellor subsection																					1.1Australia and New Zealand																											1.2Bangladesh																											1.3Canada																											1.4Finland																											1.5France																											1.6Germany and Poland																											1.7Hong Kong																											1.8Kazakhstan, Turkey, Russia, and Ukraine																											1.9India																											1.10Ireland																											1.11Malaysia																											1.12Nepal																											1.13Pakistan																											1.14Philippines																											1.15United Kingdom																											1.16United States
The President of Bangladesh is the titular chancellor of all universities in Bangladesh, public or private. The vice chancellor is the executive head, and his deputy, the pro-vice chancellor holds a full-time administrative office.
"Higher Education Act 101 of 1997". 4 July 2010. Retrieved 4 July 2010.
University presidents typically ascend to the position from academic careers (i.e., after earning tenure and becoming professors and then deans), and it is highly unusual for a university to recruit a president who lacks a strong track record in academic research or university administration.[11][12]
In India, most central and state level universities have a titular head called chancellor who is either an eminent person appointed by the Government of India (in central universities) or provincial governor (in state universities). The de facto head of a university is the vice-chancellor, the highest paid official of the university. Next in command are more than one pro-vice-chancellor in charge of academic as well as administrative and financial affairs. In deemed universities and institutes of national importance, the head of the institution is either called director general or director, the latter designation being more commonly used in academic terms in the subcontinent.
In the history of Finland the office of the chancellor dates all the way back to the Swedish Empire, and later the Russian Empire. Historically the chancellor's duty was to function as the official representative of the monarch in the autonomous university.
In France, chancellor (chancelier) is one of the titles of the rector (recteur), a senior civil servant of the Ministry of Education serving as manager of a regional educational district (académie). In his capacity as chancellor, the rector awards academic degrees to the university's graduates, oversees the legality of the universities' executive acts and channels funding from the ministry.[citation needed] The rector has no executive function in any university but remains a member ex officio of the board of every public university in his district.[citation needed]
^ "Two more private universities approved for Pune". The Times of India. Retrieved 3 July 2014.
In Kazakhstan, Turkey, Russia, and Ukraine, the chancellor is the head of the university and is called a "rector." Some universities in Russia and Ukraine have figurehead "presidents."
In Kenya, chancellors are titular heads of public universities, either appointed by the head of state (president) directly, or, in newly introduced legislation, at the recommendation of senate and alumni of the university. The day-to-day running of universities is the responsibility of the vice-chancellors. "Rector" and "president" are not commonly used terms in university administration.The vice-chancellor is assisted by a number of high ranking University officials known as Deputy Vice-chancellor, popularly referred to as DVC. The DVC's head specific departments of the university such as Finance and Administration, etc.
There are a few exceptions within England. For example, the charter of the University of Manchester provides for the vice-chancellor to also use the title president, and the first vice-chancellor, Alan Gilbert (2004–10), used president as his main title. The University of Warwick now officially uses "vice-chancellor and president" (VCP), although the holder is usually still known as the vice-chancellor in all but official documents. The chief executives of the constituent colleges of the University of London, many of which are now functionally independent universities, generally use the title principal, although the chief executive of Imperial College has the title rector, University College London's chief executive is the "president and provost", the London School of Economics' head is titled director and Birkbeck College is headed by the master.
At the University of the South, the vice chancellor is the administrative head of the university (as well as mayor of the town of Sewanee). The chancellor is a bishop of one of the 28 southeastern Episcopal dioceses that own the university and is elected by the members of the board of trustees. The chancellor neither resides at the university nor holds administrative power; the office of chancellor is a ceremonial one.
Gordon, Larry (12 July 2013). "Janet Napolitano, Homeland Security chief, to head UC". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 25 January 2021.
Canadian universities have a titular chancellor similar to those in England and Wales, with day-to-day operations typically handled by a principal. The vice-chancellor usually carries the joint title of "president and vice-chancellor" or "rector and vice-chancellor."
Recently, UCSI in Kuala Lumpur has given recognition to Tan Sri Datuk Seri Panglima Dr. Abdul Rahman Arshad as its first chancellor.
Canadian university vice-chancellors almost always carry the title of "president (or equivalent) and vice-chancellor"; likewise, in Scotland, they hold the position of "principal and vice-chancellor" (as do a few Canadian universities such as Queen's and McGill). In the Scottish practice, the one individual may have two sets of official robes, reflecting a continuing division of responsibilities between the two posts. The vice-chancellor's robes, therefore, should not be worn in the presence of the chancellor but should only be worn when deputizing for the chancellor.
The chancellor of Universiti Putra Malaysia is the current Sultan of Selangor, Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah, while the current Yang di-Pertuan Besar of Negeri Sembilan, Tunku Muhriz is the chancellor of Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia.
The executive head of an Australian university is the vice-chancellor, who serves as the university equivalent of a chief executive officer.[14] The vice-chancellor is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the university and reports directly to the University Council, which the chancellor heads.[15] Assisting the vice-chancellor, the roles of deputy vice-chancellors and pro vice-chancellors have emerged to better manage the administrative overhead of the position.[16]
3Vice-chancellor											Toggle Vice-chancellor subsection																					3.1Australia																											3.2Canada and Scotland																											3.3India																											3.4Bangladesh																											3.5Nepal																											3.6Sri Lanka																											3.7Sudan																											3.8Kenya																											3.9Malaysia																											3.10Nigeria																											3.11Ireland																											3.12Philippines																											3.13Sweden																											3.14United States
The principal is the chief executive and the chief academic officer of a university or college in certain parts of the Commonwealth.
In Sweden, the rektor (rector) is the head of a Swedish university, but the word vice-chancellor (vicekansler) is often used as the English translation of rektor. The vice-chancellor (vicekansler) is also an honorary title given to the rectores magnifici at the universities of Lund and Uppsala.
In the Philippines, University of Santo Tomas the day-to-day head of the university, as mandated by their duty as the Prior Provincial of the Philippine Dominican Province, the Dominican province that has majority control over the university.
Outside of university systems, presidents are the functional chief executive officers of most standalone U.S. universities. However, a few universities, such as Syracuse University and the University of Pittsburgh, have a chancellor as their chief executive officer. There are occasional other uses of the title "chancellor." The College of William & Mary uses the term "chancellor" in the British sense, as a figurehead leader, but the actual executive of the school is the "president," not a "vice-chancellor." Some schools, such as Lubbock Christian University, give the ceremonial title of "chancellor" to a retiring university president. The Catholic University of America is headed by a president (formerly "rector"), with the Archbishop of Washington serving as chancellor, a ceremonial position but one which does require the archbishop to represent the university before the Holy See. This scenario, while not always exactly duplicated, is typical in other Catholic universities due to the Catholic hierarchy. In some schools run by Catholic religious orders, the rector of the community supersedes the president when the latter is a member of that religious order. In some universities, such as Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the chancellor is a high-ranking officer below the president and equal to or below the provost, who might have vice-chancellors reporting to her or him.[6]
Macquarie University in Sydney is a noteworthy anomaly as it once had the unique position of Emeritus Deputy Chancellor, a post created for John Lincoln upon his retirement from his long-held post of deputy chancellor in 2000. The position was not merely an honorary title, as it also retained for Lincoln a place in the University Council until his death in 2011.
In Malaysia, all the government universities are administered by the vice-chancellor.
The title "chancellor" is sometimes used in K-12 education in a sense similar to superintendent of schools, particularly in urban school districts. The New York City Schools Chancellor is the chief executive officer of the New York City Department of Education, which manages the city's public school system (the largest in the United States). The leader of the District of Columbia Public Schools system is also referred to as the chancellor.
In Hong Kong, the Chief Executive of Hong Kong (and before 1997, Governor of Hong Kong) acts as the chancellor of all chartered universities, which includes all eight public universities and Hong Kong Metropolitan University.[3] Day-to-day operation is in the hands of either a vice-chancellor (older and established institutions) or a president (in newer institutions), depending on the institution.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"The Private University Act, 1992". Südasien-Institut. Archived from the original on 17 December 2007. Retrieved 6 April 2011.
2University president											Toggle University president subsection																					2.1France																											2.2United Kingdom																											2.3United States
Lists of university leadersAdministrators: trustee, president, vice president, university principal, dean, provost, rectorOther: college, faculty, professor
In the Philippines, the De La Salle University designates the head of its university as the chancellor. For the University of the Philippines, the entire system is headed by a president, while the eight constituent universities under the system is each headed by a chancellor. The chancellor designates the different vice-chancellors for different areas of concern of the university: academic affairs, finance, and community affairs, among others. Some more universities like University of Santo Tomas and other colleges, institutions have chancellors. Its chancellor is the incumbent Master of the Order of Preachers (Dominicans); meanwhile, the vice chancellor is the prior provincial of the Dominican Province of the Philippines. Their roles are largely ceremonial. The University of Santo Tomas is governed mainly by its rector magnificus in overseeing its academic, financial and other affairs. On the other hand, the San Beda System has the prior or the abbot of Our Lady of Montserrat Abbey (Manila) as its chancellor for its constituent units while a rector-president heads each constituent unit.
^ McMillan, David (1968). Australian universities: a descriptive sketch. Taylor & Francis. p. 33.
In Nepal, universities have a chancellor as ceremonial head. The de facto head of the university is the vice-chancellor. The chancellor is primarily responsible for attending the convocation programmes and accepting the resignation and appointment letter of a new vice-chancellor. Generally, the prime minister is considered the chancellor, and in his absence, the minister of education acts as the chancellor.
"The Executive Team". Richmond, The American International University in London. Retrieved 14 March 2022.
^ Gordon, Larry (12 July 2013). "Janet Napolitano, Homeland Security chief, to head UC". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 25 January 2021.
Chancellor is a titular position in Bangladesh always held by the incumbent President of Bangladesh under the Private Universities Act 1992.[1] The position in public universities is not fixed for the president under any acts or laws (since the erection of a state university in Bangladesh requires an act to be passed in itself),[2] but it has been the custom so far to name the incumbent president of the country as chancellor of all state universities thus established. The day-to-day business of the university is run by the vice chancellor. The vice chancellor has a deputy called the pro-vice-chancellor.
^ "Chancellor | MIT Organization Chart". orgchart.mit.edu. Retrieved 28 July 2022.
"Chief executive's HKU role should only be honorary, says panel". South China Morning Post. 23 February 2017. Retrieved 15 September 2017.
In the United States, a vice chancellor (typically spelled without a hyphen) is an assistant to a chancellor, who is generally the (actual, not merely ceremonial) head of one campus of a large university which has several campuses. The head of the entire university is the president (the equivalent of a Commonwealth vice-chancellor), the chancellor is in charge of one campus, and a vice chancellor is one of their direct reports responsible for a broad area of authority at one campus. Some systems, such as the California State University and the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education invert this arrangement so that the chancellor is the head of the entire university system, while a vice chancellor is an executive who directly reports to the chancellor and is responsible for a broad area of authority across the entire system.
"Chief executive's HKU role should only be honorary, says panel"
^ "The Executive Team". Richmond, The American International University in London. Retrieved 14 March 2022.
A chancellor is a leader of a college or university, usually either the executive or ceremonial head of the university or of a university campus within a university system.
In Malaysia, the chancellor position is given to dignitaries such as royalty or prominent politicians by universities to represent the universities in the political arena. For example, the chancellor of University of Malaya, the oldest university in Malaysia is Sultan Nazrin Shah, the Sultan of Perak. His father, Sultan Azlan Shah also served as chancellor at the same university until his death in 2014.
"Vice-Chancellors at Australia's universities". Universities Australia. Archived from the original on 5 August 2012. Retrieved 7 November 2011.
In Scotland, the principal is appointed by the university court or governing body of the university and will be chairman or president of the body of academics. In the case of the ancient universities of Scotland, the principal is president of the academic senate. The principal also holds the title of vice-chancellor, but their powers with regard to this position extend only to the awarding of degrees, as both the vice-chancellor and chancellor are titular posts.
^ Kerr, Clark (2001). The Gold and the Blue: A Personal Memoir of the University of California, 1949–1967, Volume 1. Berkeley: University of California Press. p. 214. ISBN 9780520223677. Retrieved 24 January 2021.
^ "Vice-Chancellors at Australia's universities". Universities Australia. Archived from the original on 5 August 2012. Retrieved 7 November 2011.
In India, almost all universities have a chancellor as their titular head whose function is largely ceremonial. The governor of the state, appointed as the union's representative of state by the president, is the honorary chancellor of all State owned universities. The de facto head of any government university is the vice-chancellor. In private non-profit universities, normally the head of the foundation who has established the university is the chancellor of the university and is the head of the university.
The role of the VC contrasts with that of the chancellor, who is usually a prominent public figure who acts as a ceremonial figurehead only (e.g., the chancellor of the University of Cambridge for 36 years was Prince Philip), while the vice-chancellor is the chief executive. An assistant to a vice-chancellor is called a pro-vice-chancellor or deputy vice-chancellor; these were traditionally academics who were elected to take on additional responsibilities in addition to their regular teaching and research for a limited time, but are now increasingly commonly full-time appointments. In some universities (e.g. in Australian universities: Deakin University, Macquarie University), there are several deputy vice-chancellors subordinate to the vice-chancellor, with pro-vice-chancellor being a position at executive level ranking below deputy vice-chancellor.
In the United Kingdom, a Chancellor is generally a titular position without day-to-day managerial responsibilities, such as at University of Oxford, where the Vice-Chancellor runs the administration and is the de facto university leader.[5] In Scotland, day-to-day operations are typically handled by a "principal and vice-chancellor."
^ Loftin, R. Bowen (2018). "Leading a Public Flagship within a State System".In Trachtenberg, Stephen Joel; Kauvar, Gerald B.; Gee, E. Gordon (eds.). Leading Colleges and Universities: Lessons from Higher Education Leaders. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. pp. 245–252. ISBN 9781421424934. Retrieved 2 December 2020.
The Gold and the Blue: A Personal Memoir of the University of California, 1949–1967, Volume 1
In South Africa, the Higher Education Act 101 of 1997 defines the principal as "the chief executive and accounting officer of a public higher education institution."[17] The definition allows for the alternative nomenclatures of vice-chancellor and a rector, and these terms are in widespread use (the term vice-chancellor is more common in English-medium universities, whilst the term rector tends to be used in Afrikaans-medium universities). The exact name in a particular university will be defined by the Institutional Statute. The same act defines the chancellor as the titular head of an institution.
A "vice-chancellor" (commonly called a "VC") serves as the chief executive of a university in England, Wales, Northern Ireland, New Zealand, Australia, Nepal, India, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, South Africa, Kenya, other Commonwealth countries, and some universities in Hong Kong. In Scotland, Canada, and Ireland, the chief executive of a university is usually called principal or president, with vice-chancellor being an honorific associated with this title, allowing the individual to bestow degrees in absence of the chancellor.
For private university unlike the chancellor who heads the conventional Indian 'state university', the private university is headed by a president or chairman of private organization and have other posts like vice-chancellors, deans of faculties, registrar and controller of examinations.[4]
The Prime Minister of Nepal is the titular chancellor of most universities in Nepal, public or private. The vice chancellor is the executive head, and along with Registrar holds a full-time administrative office.
In many countries, the administrative and educational head of the university is known as the president, principal or rector. In the United States, the head of a university is most commonly a university president. In U.S., university systems that have more than one affiliated university or campus, the executive head of a specific campus may have the title of chancellor and report to the overall system's president, or vice versa.
Queen's University and McGill University in Canada have principals instead of presidents as a result of their Scottish origins. In addition, the Royal Military College of Canada also has a principal.
The number of chancellors in Finnish universities has declined over the years, and in the vast majority of Finnish universities the highest official is the rector. The remaining universities with chancellors are University of Helsinki and Åbo Akademi University.
In the United States, the executive and ceremonial roles are not split, which means that a university president assumes an enormous burden in terms of the sheer breadth of their duties and responsibilities. The president is expected to preside over all major ceremonies, including graduations and presentations of awards and honors,[10] while also reporting to the board of trustees and personally handling certain high-level executive functions: external relations (especially public relations and fundraising) and long-range planning and strategy (especially the creation and termination of university degrees, programs, and policies).[9] Most other decisions are delegated to their second in command, especially operational day-to-day decisions.[9] The provost often has the final say on resource allocation decisions, difficult tenure decisions, whether to initiate recruiting of star faculty from other institutions, and whether to initiate defensive measures against such recruiting of the institution's own star faculty.[9]
^ Toncich, Dario (2008). Study and Learning in the Australian University System. Dario Toncich. pp. 60–70. ISBN 978-1-876665-02-9.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Chancellor" education – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Kerr, Clark (2001). The Gold and the Blue: A Personal Memoir of the University of California, 1949–1967, Volume 1. Berkeley: University of California Press. p. 214. ISBN 9780520223677. Retrieved 24 January 2021.
Find sources: "Chancellor" education – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
University president is the title of the highest-ranking officer within the academic administration of a university, within university systems that prefer that appellation over other variations such as chancellor or rector. The relative seniority varies between institutions.
"Ministry of Education – Law/Act". Ministry of Education, Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Retrieved 6 April 2011.
"Chancellor | MIT Organization Chart". orgchart.mit.edu. Retrieved 28 July 2022.
In Pakistan, chancellor is normally the figurehead of the university, who is normally the provincial governor where that university exists.Day-to-day business of the university is run by the vice chancellor.
In the United States, heads of colleges and universities are typically called "president." A multi-campus university system may be headed by a chancellor who serves as systemwide chief, with presidents governing individual institutions. This is more commonly seen in university systems which were belatedly formed by grouping together already-extant colleges or universities in the 20th century, such as the State University of New York, the City University of New York, and the California State University. In many state university systems which began with a single flagship campus in the 18th or 19th century and gradually delegated operational authority to satellite campuses during the 20th century, the titles are reversed. This is the case in Arkansas, California, North Carolina, Illinois, Massachusetts, Missouri, and Wisconsin.
In Northern Ireland, the president is the chief academic and administrative officer of the university and is usually also the vice-chancellor of the university. The private London-based liberal-arts university Richmond, The American International University in London utilises the same system as in the United States but also with a ceremonial chancellor as figurehead.[8]
List of Vice-Chancellors and Chancellors of the University of Pretoria
The chancellor of Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia, a university situated in the state of Johor, is the current Sultan of Johor, Sultan Ibrahim.
In Ireland, the four universities all have a chancellor as their figurehead leader. However, the day-to-day operations of the universities are under the directorship of a president (a provost in the case of Trinity College Dublin). The National University of Ireland's constituent universities do not have a chancellor each; rather, the president of each constituent university has the title of Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the NUI. In Dublin City University and the University of Limerick, the chancellor is also the chairman of the university's governing authority.
In Poland, the chancellor (kanclerz) is the head of many universities' administration and the leader of the non-academic staff while the rector is the academic head. The main academic bodies of the university consists of: rektor (the head of the university), prorector (deputy rektor), dziekan (the head of the faculty), prodziekan (deputy dziekan), senat (the main council of the university). In universities with presidential constitution, the university's president holds both the functions of chancellor and rector.Similarly, in Germany the chancellor (Kanzler) is the head of the administration, and regularly is recruited not from a scholarly but from an administrative background. The chancellor is a member of the governing body of the university (Hochschulleitung), which is directed by either a rector (Rektor) or a president (Präsident), whose precise role may vary among universities. Traditionally, the chancellor had the role to represent the local king or later the government in the university and to make sure that the university is compliant with government laws and policies. After universities gained more autonomy in the 20th century, they also got more freedom in choosing the chancellor by themselves. However, still today the chancellor is not an administrator who is entirely subordinate to the president but an office holder who oversees a host of responsibilities assigned to him or her directly by higher education law. This can give the chancellor a considerable veto power in the university leadership.
In both Australia and New Zealand, a chancellor is the chairperson of a university's governing body; thus, as well as having ceremonial duties, the chancellor participates in the governance of the university (but not its active management). The chancellor is assisted by a deputy chancellor (known as the pro-chancellor in some universities). The chancellor and deputy chancellor are frequently drawn from the senior ranks of business or the judiciary (it is one of the few jobs considered compatible with judicial service). Some universities have a visitor who is senior to the chancellor. University disputes can be appealed from the governing board to the visitor (as is still the case in the UK), but nowadays, such appeals are generally prohibited by legislation, and the position has only ceremonial functions (unlike the chancellor and deputy chancellor, who frequently preside at functions such as graduations, the visitor rarely attends university functions). The vice-chancellor usually serves as the chief executive of the university.
In Nigeria, chancellors are ceremonial heads of public universities (mostly traditional monarchs), appointed by the head of state (president), governor of a state (in the case of state-owned universities) or assumed by the owner of a private university. The day-to-day running of universities is the responsibility of the vice-chancellors. There are also pro-chancellors who are government appointees that head the universities' governing councils. The university governing council is the highest administrative organ of a Nigerian public universities. They approve projects, contracts, recruitments, promotions and are regarded as employer of university workers. They also appoint the principal officers of the university including the vice chancellor. They exercise all these functions on behalf of the "visitor." The visitor is the president of the federation (for federal universities) and state governors for state-owned universities.
The chancellor of the University of Edinburgh is Anne, Princess Royal, whilst the current chancellor of the University of Aberdeen is Camilla, Queen Consort of The United Kingdom.
In the University of the Philippines, the chancellor assigns different vice-chancellors to handle different aspects of running the university. There is one for instruction, administration, and community affairs, among others.
Google. "Google Maps". Retrieved 2009-01-13. {{cite web}}: |author= has generic name (help)
^ McBriarty, Patrick (26 May 2015). "What's Going On With the Division Street Bridges?".
Hill, Libby (2000). The Chicago River: A Natural and Unnatural History. Chicago: Lake Claremont Press. ISBN 1-893121-02-X.
"Hold Up Bridge Removal Bill: City Does Work and Contractor Asks It Is Alleged". Chicago Daily Tribune. July 29, 1910.
Duis, Perry (1998). Challenging Chicago: Coping With Everyday Life, 1837–1920. Urbana: University of Illinois Press. ISBN 0-252-02394-3.
^ Ori, Ryan (2015). "Amazon to put first Chicago warehouse on Goose Island". Chicago Business. Retrieved March 6, 2019.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Cutler, Irving (2006). Chicago, Metropolis of the Mid-Continent (4th ed.). SIU Press. p. 60. ISBN 0-8093-2702-3.
Second Annual Report of the Department of Public Works to the City Council of the City of Chicago, for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 1877. Chicago Department of Public Works. 1878. p. 93.
Chrucky, Serhii. "The Extension and Removal of Ogden Avenue". Forgotten Chicago. Retrieved 2009-12-16.
The land that was to become the present-day Goose Island lies on a bend in the Chicago River between North Avenue on the north and Chicago Avenue on the south. In 1853, William B. Ogden, Chicago's first mayor, formed the Chicago Land Company, which purchased land on the east side of the river to excavate clay for brick-making.[5] Starting from the south, workers excavated a channel northwards, and by 1857 the channel had rejoined the river forming a shortcut past the bend in the river. The channel was eventually dredged to 50 feet (15 m) wide and 10 feet (3 m) deep to make it navigable, and it became known as the North Branch Canal, or Ogden's Canal.[1][5] The island thus created was also sometimes nicknamed Ogden's Island,[5][6] a name that some Chicago aldermen proposed to make the official name of the island in 1891.[7] The name may refer to the earlier location of the Kilgubbin settlement close to the original Goose Island,[2] or it may have been in reference to the flocks of geese kept by the settlers on the island.[6]
Ori, Ryan (2015). "Amazon to put first Chicago warehouse on Goose Island". Chicago Business. Retrieved March 6, 2019.
^ Second Annual Report of the Department of Public Works to the City Council of the City of Chicago, for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 1877. Chicago Department of Public Works. 1878. p. 93.
This page was last edited on 29 November 2022, at 06:12 (UTC).
"A New Type of Folding Bridge". Scientific American. 65 (11): 159. 12 September 1891. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican09121891-159.
^ Chrucky, Serhii. "The Extension and Removal of Ogden Avenue". Forgotten Chicago. Retrieved 2009-12-16.
^ "Hold Up Bridge Removal Bill: City Does Work and Contractor Asks It Is Alleged". Chicago Daily Tribune. July 29, 1910.
Engineering. 52: 84 & 91. July 24, 1891. {{cite journal}}: Missing or empty |title= (help)
McBriarty, Patrick (26 May 2015). "What's Going On With the Division Street Bridges?".
"East Division Street Bridge, Spanning North Branch Canal at West Division Street, Chicago, Cook County, IL"
^ Cary, John W. (1892). The Organization and History of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway. Milwaukee: Press of Cramer, Aikens, & Cramer. p. 253. OCLC 11226190.
Kirkland, Joseph (1892). The Story of Chicago. Chicago: Dibble Publishing Company. p. 277. OCLC 181674512.
^ Ori, Ryan (2014). "Office Space, the final frontier". Crains Chicago. Retrieved September 15, 2014.
"East Division Street Bridge, Spanning North Branch Canal at West Division Street, Chicago, Cook County, IL". Historic American Engineering Record. Retrieved 2009-12-16.
^ Kirkland, Joseph (1892). The Story of Chicago. Chicago: Dibble Publishing Company. p. 277. OCLC 181674512.
The Cherry Avenue Bridge provides railroad access to the island at its northern tip. The Chicago and Pacific Railroad constructed railroad onto Goose Island in the 1870s.[14] This company was absorbed into the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway in 1880.[15] Operation of the surviving railroad on Goose Island was taken over by the Soo Line Railroad in 1986, and then by the Chicago Terminal Railroad in January 2007.
^ "East Division Street Bridge, Spanning North Branch Canal at West Division Street, Chicago, Cook County, IL". Historic American Engineering Record. Retrieved 2009-12-16.
The settlers were eventually joined by Polish and German immigrants to the city. For most of the residents, daily life hovered between rural and urban, with many raising livestock while also working in nearby factories. Over 100 units of housing were built in a three-block area to accommodate the new residents and taverns and bars opened.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Cutler, Irving (2006). Chicago, Metropolis of the Mid-Continent (4th ed.). SIU Press. p. 60. ISBN 0-8093-2702-3.
Ogden Avenue also crossed the island on a viaduct that opened in 1934, though it was not possible to access the island from the viaduct. In 1992 following the closure of the section of Ogden Avenue that ran to the north-east of the island the viaduct was demolished.[20]
Solzman, David M. (2006). The Chicago River: An Illustrated History and Guide to the River and Its Waterways (2nd ed.). Chicago: The University of Chicago Press. ISBN 0-226-76801-5.
Chicago Public SchoolsOgden International School East and Jenner campusesEdward Jenner School (merged)
Ori, Ryan (2014). "Office Space, the final frontier". Crains Chicago. Retrieved September 15, 2014.
Cary, John W. (1892). The Organization and History of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway. Milwaukee: Press of Cramer, Aikens, & Cramer. p. 253. OCLC 11226190.
^ Engineering. 52: 84 & 91. July 24, 1891. {{cite journal}}: Missing or empty |title= (help)
Goose Island is a 160-acre (65-hectare) artificial island in Chicago, Illinois, formed by the North Branch of the Chicago River on the west and the North Branch Canal on the east. It is about .mw-parser-output .frac{white-space:nowrap}.mw-parser-output .frac .num,.mw-parser-output .frac .den{font-size:80%;line-height:0;vertical-align:super}.mw-parser-output .frac .den{vertical-align:sub}.mw-parser-output .sr-only{border:0;clip:rect(0,0,0,0);height:1px;margin:-1px;overflow:hidden;padding:0;position:absolute;width:1px}1+1⁄2 miles (2.5 kilometers) long and 1⁄2 mile (800 meters) across at its widest point.[1]
Goose Island is crossed by Division Street, running east–west, and Halsted Street, which runs north–south across the southeast portion of the island.[8] In 1866 Halsted Street was connected to the island with the construction of a bridge across the river;[9]a bridge across the canal at Halsted Street was added in 1874. The current bridges at these crossing points were constructed in 1955 and 2012 respectively.[10] Division Street was first connected to the island with the construction of a bridge across the river in 1869; a second bridge across the canal was added in 1870.[11] These bridges were replaced with Bascule bridges in 1904 and 1903 respectively.[12] The East Division Street bridge was the second ever Chicago-type Bascule bridge. In 2014 the East bridge was determined to have deteriorated such as to require complete replacement.It was removed and has been replaced with a temporary Bailey bridge.[13]
Two former access points to Goose Island have been removed. In 1891 an experimental bridge was constructed across the canal at Weed Street.[16] This was the first attempt by the city of Chicago to find a bridge design suitable for replacing the city's swing bridges.[17] The bridge was a wooden folding lift bridge constructed to a design by William Harman. The design, which became known as a jackknife bridge, proved too difficult to maintain and the bridge was closed to traffic in 1899. This bridge was removed in 1905 and replaced with a pontoon swing bridge until it too was removed in 1910.[18][19] Another short-lived access was created when the original Division Street bridge across the river was moved to Blackhawk Street during replacement works in 1902, this bridge was also removed in 1910.[19]
"West Division Street Bridge, Spanning North Branch of Chicago River at West Div, Chicago, Cook County, IL". Historic American Engineering Record. Retrieved 2009-12-16.
In the late 19th century, Peoples Gas, Light & Coke Co. purchased land at the east of the island for industrial plants. The area was nicknamed "Little Hell" because of the smoke produced by the plants. By 1887 there were two grain elevators, eleven coal yards, and a railroad. By the turn of the 20th century many residents began to move off the island and some businesses also deserted it.[citation needed]
^ "A New Type of Folding Bridge". Scientific American. 65 (11): 159. 12 September 1891. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican09121891-159.
McBriarty, Patrick T. (2013). Chicago River Bridges. Urbana, Chicago, and Springfield: University of Illinois Press. ISBN 978-0-252-03786-3.
^ "West Division Street Bridge, Spanning North Branch of Chicago River at West Div, Chicago, Cook County, IL". Historic American Engineering Record. Retrieved 2009-12-16.
^ Google. "Google Maps". Retrieved 2009-01-13. {{cite web}}: |author= has generic name (help)
"West Division Street Bridge, Spanning North Branch of Chicago River at West Div, Chicago, Cook County, IL"
In 1831, William Starkweather sold his land in downtown Plymouth and in 1831 purchased an 80-acre (320,000 m2) parcel of land in what was then called "North Village" (now called "The Historic Old Village"). In 1844, William died and the land in Old Village was then passed to William's son, George A Starkweather. George felt that the railroad coming to North Village would give it a commercial advantage over the Kellogg Park area. In the 1860s, he convinced the Detroit and Howell Railroad Company to build through the town. Starkweather was responsible for cutting Oak Street North through his farm in order to reach his new store and the train station. After his death in 1907, Oak Street was renamed Starkweather in his honor.[17]
^ "Census of Population and Housing". Census.gov. Retrieved June 4, 2015.
^ Hudson, Samuel (1976). The Story of Plymouth, Michigan: A Midwest Microcosm. Plymouth Historical Society.
Kerstens, Elizabeth Kelley. Plymouth in Vintage Postcards. Chicago: Arcadia Publishing, 2003.
^ a b "City and Town Population Totals: 2020-2021". United States Census Bureau. September 3, 2022. Retrieved September 3, 2022.
^ McKay, John. "Green Street Fair Marks Fifth Anniversary in Downtown Plymouth". Plymouth-Canton Patch. Retrieved August 3, 2013.
^ "History". The Starkweather Family Journal: 1825~. October 17, 2009. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
Newspapers, Associated (November 22, 2013). "Demolition of 'Daisy' wall makes way for new condominiums". Plymouth Voice. Retrieved December 25, 2020.
Kerstens, Elizabeth Kelley. Plymouth's First Century: Innovators and Industry. Chicago: Arcadia Publishing, 2002.
Notable streets in Plymouth are named after some Starkweather family members, including Blanche (after Blanche Starkweather, daughter of George Starkweather), Karmada (after the grandchildren of George Starkweather – Karl, Max and Davis), Davis – after Davis B Hillmer – youngest grandson of George Starkweather, Starkweather (formerly Oak Street), Amelia (after Lydia Amelia Heywood – Davis - Starkweather) – George Starkweather's wife, and Rose – after Rose Hillmer, eldest grand daughter of George Starkweather. Starkweather Elementary School was named after George Anson Starkweather of Plymouth, which was converted to an adult education center.[18][19]
"Explore Census Data". United States Census Bureau. Retrieved September 3, 2022.
"History". The Starkweather Family Journal: 1825~. October 17, 2009. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
The Plymouth Ice Spectacular, the largest and oldest ice carving festival in North America, is held every year in Plymouth in late January. Founded in 1982 by then 25-year-old Scott Lorenz,[9] the weekend-long event draws an average of 500,000 people to Plymouth each year and has helped establish ice carving as a world-class competitive event.[10][11]
Mourtos, Stacy. "Green Street Fair in Downtown Plymouth". Metro Parent. Retrieved August 3, 2013.
In 2009 Plymouth Township was named 28th Best Place to Live in the United States by CNN Money Magazine.[24]
^ Feighan, Maureen. "Obstacles curb cities' plans to merge services" (Archive). Detroit News. April 3, 2009. Retrieved on December 3, 2015.
Hillmer, Mary K. Starkweather. My People: Some Ancestors of the Starkweather – Heywood – Hillmer Family From Earliest Known Beginnings to 1948.
There were 4,322 households, of which 22.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 42.5% were married couples living together, 7.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 47.3% were non-families. 41.5% of all households were made up of individuals, and 13.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.04 and the average family size was 2.81.
"City and Town Population Totals: 2020-2021". United States Census Bureau. September 3, 2022. Retrieved September 3, 2022.
Much to the dismay of Plymouth residents, Daisy moved its corporate offices and manufacturing facilities from Plymouth to Rogers, Arkansas in 1958.
The Plymouth-Canton Community School District consists of three high schools, five middle schools, and sixteen elementary schools. The district has the only educational park in Michigan, the Plymouth-Canton Educational Park (P-CEP).
In 1825, Luther Lincoln was granted two land patents in what is now Plymouth by the federal government. Lincoln built his place of business, his saw mill, and abode, near the eastern boundary of his land, along the Rouge River. His actual abode and saw mill was always outside the city limits.[15] Another early settler was William Starkweather. William and his wife Keziah brought their firstborn son Albert to the area and built the first home in Plymouth, at what is now the southwest corner of Main Street and Ann Arbor Trail. The first home was a lean-to, and was later replaced by a log cabin, which has since been destroyed.[16]
As of the census of 2000, there were 9,022 people, 4,322 households, and 2,277 families residing in the city. The population density was 4,048.6 inhabitants per square mile (1,563.2/km2). There were 4,498 housing units at an average density of 2,018.4 per square mile (779.3/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 96.42% White, 0.57% African American, 0.35% Native American, 1.05% Asian, 0.07% Pacific Islander, 0.30% from other races, and 1.24% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.31% of the population. 20.4% were of German, 13.2% Irish, 12.4% English, 10.7% Polish and 7.9% Italian ancestry.
The median age in the city was 39.2 years. 21.5% of residents were under the age of 18; 5.7% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 31.8% were from 25 to 44; 27% were from 45 to 64; and 14% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 48.0% male and 52.0% female.
Hudson, Samuel (1976). The Story of Plymouth, Michigan: A Midwest Microcosm. Plymouth Historical Society.
"2020 U.S. Gazetteer Files". United States Census Bureau. Retrieved May 21, 2022.
^ Mourtos, Stacy. "Green Street Fair in Downtown Plymouth". Metro Parent. Retrieved August 3, 2013.
Since 2008, Plymouth has been home to the Green Street Fair, held over a weekend each May. Featuring green-themed exhibitors and activities, the event has become a yearly tradition.[12] In 2011, the event was attended by about 90,000 visitors.[13]
"Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on September 28, 2011. Retrieved March 23, 2011.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Bower, Helan (October 26, 1931). "Plymouth slogan town of homes". Detroit Free Press. p. 4 – via Newspapers.com.
^ Newspapers, Associated (November 22, 2013). "Demolition of 'Daisy' wall makes way for new condominiums". Plymouth Voice. Retrieved December 25, 2020.
"Census of Population and Housing". Census.gov. Retrieved June 4, 2015.
This page was last edited on 9 February 2023, at 19:46 (UTC).
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
"Grand Opening of Daisy Square Lofts and Townhome Models in Downtown Plymouth, Michigan June 12–13 - Historical Exhibits of the Daisy Air Rifle and Open House Viewings of Daisy Square Lofts and Town Homes Are Planned"
"Plymouth Art in the Park". Michigan Festival and Events Association. Archived from the original on August 3, 2013. Retrieved August 3, 2013.
^ "US Gazetteer files 2010". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on January 12, 2012. Retrieved November 25, 2012.
There were 4,314 households, of which 25.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 40.6% were married couples living together, 7.9% had a female householder with no husband present, 2.9% had a male householder with no wife present, and 48.6% were non-families. 42.4% of all households were made up of individuals, and 13.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.08 and the average family size was 2.93.
In the city, the population was spread out, with 18.7% under the age of 18, 5.8% from 18 to 24, 37.5% from 25 to 44, 21.7% from 45 to 64, and 16.2% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 88.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 85.4 males.
Another very popular community tradition/event is Plymouth's Fall Festival. This annual event is held the weekend after Labor Day. The Fall Festival is an event for all ages with numerous rides and other attractions.
Daisy Manufacturing Company, now Daisy Outdoor Products, started in 1882 in Plymouth as the Plymouth Iron Windmill Company. In 1886 Plymouth inventor Clarence Hamilton introduced a new idea to the windmill company. It was a combination of metal and wire, vaguely resembling a gun that could fire a lead ball using compressed air. Lewis Cass Hough, then president of the firm, gave it a try and, after his first shot, enthusiastically exclaimed, "Boy, that's a daisy!" The name stuck, and the BB gun went into production as a premium item given to farmers when they purchased a windmill. The gun was such a huge success that Plymouth Iron Windmill soon began manufacturing the Daisy BB gun in place of windmills. On January 26, 1895, the company's board of directors officially voted to change the name to Daisy Manufacturing Company, Inc.[20][21]
"Grand Opening of Daisy Square Lofts and Townhome Models in Downtown Plymouth, Michigan June 12–13 - Historical Exhibits of the Daisy Air Rifle and Open House Viewings of Daisy Square Lofts and Town Homes Are Planned". PRWeb. Retrieved December 25, 2020.
Feighan, Maureen. "Obstacles curb cities' plans to merge services" (Archive). Detroit News. April 3, 2009. Retrieved on December 3, 2015.
Rufus Thayer, Judge of the United States Court for China
"Best Places to Live 2009". CNN. Retrieved August 3, 2013.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Bower, Helan (October 26, 1931). "Plymouth slogan town of homes". Detroit Free Press. p. 4 – via Newspapers.com.
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on September 28, 2011. Retrieved March 23, 2011.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ Dauzet-Miller, Leis (2013). Legendary Locals of Plymouth. Arcadia Publishing. ISBN 978-1-4671-0037-3.
Edward Samuel Corwin, author and former president of the American Political Science Association
^ "Best Places to Live 2009". CNN. Retrieved August 3, 2013.
As of the census of 2010, there were 9,132 people, 4,314 households, and 2,218 families residing in the city. The population density was 4,132.1 inhabitants per square mile (1,595.4/km2). There were 4,652 housing units at an average density of 2,105.0 per square mile (812.7/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 94.2% White, 1.6% African American, 0.3% Native American, 2.2% Asian, 0.4% from other races, and 1.4% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.8% of the population.
Aidan Hutchinson, defensive end for the Detroit Lions, former player for Michigan
The Plymouth District Library offers books, video games, and movies through subscription databases.The Library also has a section where you can buy some books.
McKay, John. "Green Street Fair Marks Fifth Anniversary in Downtown Plymouth". Plymouth-Canton Patch. Retrieved August 3, 2013.
"US Gazetteer files 2010". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on January 12, 2012. Retrieved November 25, 2012.
^ "Grand Opening of Daisy Square Lofts and Townhome Models in Downtown Plymouth, Michigan June 12–13 - Historical Exhibits of the Daisy Air Rifle and Open House Viewings of Daisy Square Lofts and Town Homes Are Planned". PRWeb. Retrieved December 25, 2020.
Other events include Plymouth's "Music in the Air", held every Friday night June through September, beginning at approximately 7:00 pm, showcasing a number of bands performing a wide variety of music. The Historic Old Village hosts events such as "Bumpers Bikes and Bands", the "Old Village Restaurant Crawl", and the family-friendly "Haunted Halloween" on Liberty Street. The Old Village is located on Plymouth's north side and borders Hines Park.
Plymouth was first settled in 1825, incorporated as a village in 1867, and became a city in 1932.
In 2003 the former Daisy factory was converted to Daisy Square Condominiums despite being situated next to an active freight rail line. The front wall of the Daisy factory was left standing to be built into the apartment building.[22]The wall has since been demolished.[23]
^ a b c "Explore Census Data". United States Census Bureau. Retrieved September 3, 2022.
^ "Plymouth Art in the Park". Michigan Festival and Events Association. Archived from the original on August 3, 2013. Retrieved August 3, 2013.
Dauzet-Miller, Leis (2013). Legendary Locals of Plymouth. Arcadia Publishing. ISBN 978-1-4671-0037-3.
^ "databaseFootball.com The Largest Football Statistics and History Database Online". Archived from the original on April 11, 2016.
Hudson, Samuel. The Story of Plymouth, Michigan: A Midwest Microcosm. Plymouth, Mich.: Plymouth Historical Society, 1976.
The City of Plymouth has a variety of shops and restaurants surrounding Kellogg Park, the de facto center of town. The Inn at St. John's, a hotel conference center and golf resort, is located in Plymouth. The city offers more than fifty recreation programs for all age groups, an NHL-size ice arena (used by the USA national teams for training) and twelve parks. It also organizes major community events such as the popular Fall Festival, Ice Sculpture Spectacular and the Art in the Park, and access to the Plymouth-Canton school district, with a unique complex composed of three high schools located on one 305-acre (1.23 km2) campus and is now one of the highest populated high school campuses in the country (nicknamed “the park”) with close to 6500 students and over 800 faculty members.
The median income for a household in the city was $51,535, and the median income for a family was $76,369. Males had a median income of $52,188 versus $37,113 for females. The per capita income for the city was $33,222. About 1.9% of families and 3.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 3.8% of those under age 18 and 3.6% of those age 65 or over.
^ "2020 U.S. Gazetteer Files". United States Census Bureau. Retrieved May 21, 2022.
Plymouth is a city in Wayne County, Michigan, United States. The population was 9,370 at the 2020 census.[3] The city of Plymouth is surrounded by Plymouth Township, but the two are administered autonomously.[7] Plymouth is a western suburb of Metro Detroit and is located about 10 miles (16.1 km) west of the city of Detroit.
"databaseFootball.com The Largest Football Statistics and History Database Online". Archived from the original on April 11, 2016.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 2.22 square miles (5.75 km2), of which 2.21 square miles (5.72 km2) is land and 0.01 square miles (0.03 km2) is water.[8] It is located 15.6 miles (25.1 km) east of Ann Arbor and 26.3 miles (42.3 km) west of Detroit, just south of the M-14 highway and west of Interstate 275.
Plymouth's "Art in the Park" is Michigan's second largest art fair. Visitors have enjoyed Plymouth Art in the Park since its inaugural event in 1980. Plymouth Art in the Park, founded, directed and managed by mother and daughter team Dianne Quinn and Raychel Rork, celebrated its 33rd show in 2012. The event hosts over 450 artists and 300,000 attendees each year.[14]
In 1995, the City of Plymouth and Plymouth Township consolidated their fire departments with the township controlling fire services. The township receives $1 million from the city, making up 25% of the consolidated fire department's budget.[26]
Starkweather, Carlton Lee. A brief genealogical history of Robert Starkweather of Roxbury and Ipswich. Auburn, N.Y.: Knapp, Peck and Thomson, 1904.
^ U.S. Geological Survey Geographic Names Information System: Plymouth, Michigan
At the time of the founding of the Diocese of Chicago on September 30, 1843, Bishop William Quarter led his faithful from the Cathedral of Saint Mary at the southwest corner of Madison and Wabash Streets. A few years later in 1851, an immense brick church called the Church of the Holy Name was being constructed on State Street between Huron and Superior streets. Its cornerstone was set in 1852. In October 1871, however, both churches were destroyed as the Great Chicago Fire engulfed all of the city. Church of the Holy Name pastor John McMullen travelled the country to raise funds to rebuild the churches and to aid the homeless of Chicago. Meanwhile, Chicago's Catholics were forced to worship in what was called the shanty cathedral, a boarded-up burnt house on Cass Street. They worshiped there for over four years.
During renovations, a fire in 2009 caused major damage to the roof and interior of the church.[3]The damage was repaired and the cathedral reopened later that year.
"Cathedral Pipe Organs". Home of Holy Name Cathedral. Retrieved July 7, 2021.
As soon as the Second Vatican Council was concluded in the 1960s, Holy Name Cathedral proceeded with a massive, controversial renovation project to alter the cathedral interior. From Easter 1968 to 1969, the cathedral was closed and Masses were held in various locations including a nearby school gymnasium. At this time all of the stained glass, oil paintings, and marble statuary was removed from the interior of the cathedral. The end result was a relatively plain room, dominated by a six-ton granite altar and Resurrection crucifix. At midnight on Christmas Eve of 1969, Holy Name Cathedral was reopened.
Six tons of monolithic red-black Rosso Imperiale di Solberga granite forms the mensa or table top of the altar. The pedestal is encircled by a bronze bas-relief depicting Old Testament scenes of sacrificial offerings and preparation: Abel's offering of the first sacrifice, the priest Melchizedek giving bread and wine, Abraham's willingness to sacrifice his son Isaac, and the Prophet Elijah receiving bread and water from the Angel of the Lord for strength to continue on his journey. The consecrated altar contains relics, or actual artifacts from the bodies of Saint John the Apostle and Saint Timothy.
In 1924, Archbishop George Mundelein was elevated by the pope to become a cardinal. When he returned from consistory at the Vatican, the new cardinal was greeted at Holy Name Cathedral with a celebratory procession of over 80,000 Catholics. Mundelein also managed to get Chicago named the host city for the 28th International Eucharistic Congress in 1926, with the opening mass being held at the cathedral.
In 1888, surveyors noticed that the cathedral was sagging on its Superior Street side. This prompted the archbishop to commence with the cathedral's first renovation projects. By 1915, Holy Name Cathedral was balanced out and saved from sinking into the ground. It was also lengthened by 15 feet (4.6 m) to accommodate the growing Catholic population. That same year, James Edward Quigley, Archbishop of Chicago, died. The first major Mass of the newly rededicated cathedral was the late archbishop's funeral.
^ "Fire breaks out at Holy Name Cathedral". WLS News. Retrieved October 16, 2018.
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "Pater Noster sung by JPII in Holy Name Cathedral Chicago". YouTube.
"Fire breaks out at Holy Name Cathedral". WLS News. Retrieved October 16, 2018.
Holy Name Cathedral underwent extensive emergency repairs from February 2008 through August 2008 due to a piece of the ornate wooden ceiling falling to the floor the night of February 10, 2008. Upon further inspection and more pieces falling—the cathedral was closed for emergency repairs. It reopened to the public for weekend Masses the weekend of August 30–31. It fully reopened on November 17, 2008.
^ Brachear, Manya A. (August 2, 2009). "Renovated Holy Name shines in debut mass". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved July 7, 2021.
"Fire damages historic Chicago church". CNN. February 4, 2009. Retrieved July 7, 2021.
List of churches in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago
A cathedra, or bishop's throne, is what makes the church a cathedral. It is from this chair that Sedes Chicagiensis, or See of Chicago, is presided over by the archbishop of Chicago. Unlike most Roman Catholic cathedra, the Cathedra of the See of Chicago is plain and simple. Its back contains three panels depicting the first Christian teachers: Christ in the center panel, Saint Peter to his right, and Saint Paul to his left.
In October 1979, Pope John Paul II became the first Pontiff to visit Holy Name Cathedral, for a prayer service with Chicago's bishops as well as a concert featuring the music of Luciano Pavarotti and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, in the nave of the cathedral. The congregation also prayed the Our Father in Latin at the request of the Pope.[10]
Holy Name Cathedral was built in the Gothic revival architectural style while at the same time integrating motifs symbolic of the message of the modern Church. The church building is 233 feet (71 m) long, 126 feet (38 m) wide and can seat 1,110 people. The ceiling is 70 feet (21 m) high and has a spire that reaches 210 feet (64 m) into the sky.[4] Overall, the cathedral features motifs meant to instill an ambience of physically dwelling in the biblical tree of life.
^ "Earl "Hymie Weiss" Wajciechowski". American Organized Crime. Archived from the original on April 10, 2008. Retrieved July 7, 2021.
1Architecture and furnishings											Toggle Architecture and furnishings subsection																					1.1Bronze cathedral doors																											1.2Resurrection crucifix																											1.3Ambo of the Evangelists																											1.4Ambo of the Epistle Writers																											1.5Cathedral altar																											1.6Cathedra of the See of Chicago																											1.7Sanctuary Panels of the Holy Name																											1.8Pipe organs																											1.9Galeri of the Cardinals
List of jails and prisons on the National Register of Historic Places
^ "Cathedral Tour". Holy Name Cathedral. Retrieved July 7, 2021.
"Pater Noster sung by JPII in Holy Name Cathedral Chicago"
University and college buildings listed on the National Register of Historic Places
Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "Pater Noster sung by JPII in Holy Name Cathedral Chicago". YouTube.
^ CatholicChicago (April 1, 2009). Holy Name Cathedral. YouTube. Archived from the original on December 21, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2018.
It closed again after a major fire on February 4, 2009, which started in the attic where workers were finishing up emergency work that began in February 2008. The cause of the fire was determined to be a faulty ice melting system in the roof line of the church. The facility suffered extensive water damage.[6] Fr. Matthew Compton, after going door to door through the rectory to help evacuate, then rescued the Blessed Sacrament with a fire department chaplain.[7]Firefighters entered the burning attic without their helmets and oxygen tanks. A fire in the attic of a building in the style of Holy Name Cathedral is usually declared a loss and just contained; the action of the firefighters that day saved The structure.[8]The restoration work following the fire was performed by Daprato Rigali Studios.[9] All Masses for the weekend were moved to the auditorium as they had been during 2008. The Archdiocese of Chicago floated a loan to Holy Name in order to finance the repairs. The cathedral reopened the weekend of August 1, 2009.
Brachear, Manya A. (August 2, 2009). "Renovated Holy Name shines in debut mass". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved July 7, 2021.
"Firefighters Extinguish Blaze at Chicago's Historic Holy Name Cathedral". Fox News. February 4, 2009.
The cathedral contains two fine pipe organs:[5] a large 71-stop, 4-manual instrument in the west end gallery constructed by Flentrop firm of Zaandam, Netherlands; and a smaller 19-stop, 2-manual instrument in the south chancel by Casavant Frères of Saint-Hyacinthe, Quebec, Canada.
In 1874, Brooklyn architect Patrick Charles Keely, who would later also design St. Stanislaus Kostka Church, was selected to draw plans for the new cathedral of Chicago. On July 19 of that year, the cornerstone was laid. On November 21 of the following year, Bishop Thomas Foley dedicated the church and christened it the Cathedral of the Holy Name. In 1880, the Diocese of Chicago was reorganized to become the Archdiocese of Chicago and Holy Name Cathedral became the church of primacy over several other dioceses in the Midwest United States.
^ "Cathedral Pipe Organs". Home of Holy Name Cathedral. Retrieved July 7, 2021.
CatholicChicago (April 1, 2009). Holy Name Cathedral. YouTube. Archived from the original on December 21, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2018.
Chicago Public SchoolsOgden International School East and Jenner campusesEdward Jenner School (merged)
Churches on the National Register of Historic Places in Illinois
Various bronze sculptures are featured in other parts of the church. One of the largest pieces is the Ambo of the Evangelists by Eugenio de Courten. An ambo, in church liturgy, is the lectern from which readings of Holy Scripture are proclaimed. The bronze casting depicts the authors of the Gospels with their symbols: Matthew the angel representing the Gospel of the Church; Mark, the lion and inspiration for Peter's teachings or catechesis; Luke, the ox, for his recounting of Christ's infancy; John, the eagle, for the writer of the Spiritual Gospel, recounting the story of "the Word made flesh."
"Earl "Hymie Weiss" Wajciechowski". American Organized Crime. Archived from the original on April 10, 2008. Retrieved July 7, 2021.
Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago is the seat of the Archdiocese of Chicago, one of the largest Roman Catholic dioceses in the United States. The current Archbishop of Chicago is Cardinal Blase J. Cupich. Dedicated on November 21, 1875, Holy Name Cathedral replaced the Cathedral of Saint Mary and the Church of the Holy Name, which were destroyed by the Great Chicago Fire of 1871. A cornerstone inscription still bears faint indications of bullet marks from the murder of North Side Gang member Hymie Weiss, who was killed in front of the church (at the edge of the street, roughly a foot or two south of where the cornerstone is) on October 11, 1926.[2]
Also by de Courten is the Ambo of the Evangelists, a bronze casting depicting the authors of the apostolic letters to the early Church communities: Peter, with keys to the Kingdom of God; Paul, who died by the sword; James, representing faith sustained by good works; and Jude, carrying a whip representing correction.This particular ambo is used by lectors and cantors during Sunday Masses and other special Church feasts and memorials.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"National Register Information System – (#00000477)". National Register of Historic Places. National Park Service. March 15, 2006.
Above the cathedra are the Sanctuary Panels of the Holy Name, five bronze panels by Attilio Selva representing the Holy Name of Jesus from which the church gets its name. The first panel is of Simeon contemplating the Infant Savior whom Mary presents in the Temple.The second panel depicts the Mystery of the Trinity and an angel carrying the monogram of Christ to earth. The third panel is of the Risen Christ proclaimed as Lord. The fourth panel is of the Presentation of Jesus in the Temple showing Mary and Joseph presenting the child for circumcision and naming. The last panel is of the Priesthood of Jesus, with Christ adorned in vestments presenting the chalice to all people.
Holy Name Cathedral continues the tradition of raising the galero, a wide-brimmed tasseled hat, of a deceased cardinal over the cathedra from the highest point of the semicircular, domed cathedral apse. The galero is hung in Holy Name Cathedral where they remain until they are reduced to dust, symbolizing how all earthly glory is passing. Looking up above the cathedra are the galeri of Cardinals Mundelein, Stritch, Meyer, Cody, Bernardin, and George.
Properties of religious function on the National Register of Historic Places in Chicago
^ "Fire damages historic Chicago church". CNN. February 4, 2009. Retrieved July 7, 2021.
The first feature that greets worshipers are massive bronze doors designed by Albert J. Friscia that weigh 1,200 pounds (540 kg) each. The doors introduce the overall "Tree of Life" theme with intricate details that serve to make the doors look like overwhelming planks of wood. The doors possess a hydraulic system that allows them to be opened with the push of a finger. Beyond the doors is a vestibule encased in glass.
This page was last edited on 28 January 2023, at 09:56 (UTC).
When Cardinal Mundelein died unexpectedly in his sleep in October 1939, Chicago City Hall hastily paved State Street where the subway was being constructed to accommodate the great influx of mourners expected to make the pilgrimage. As Cardinal Mundelein lay in state in the nave of Holy Name Cathedral, over a million people paid their last respects.
Once inside the church, the most striking feature is the suspended Resurrection Crucifix sculpted by the artist Ivo Demetz. Adorning the walls of the nave are the Stations of the Cross by artist Goffredo Verginelli depicting the Passion, Crucifixion and Resurrection of Christ. The stations are cast in bronze and framed in red Rocco Alicante marble.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"National Register Information System – (#00000477)". National Register of Historic Places. National Park Service. March 15, 2006.
^ "Firefighters Extinguish Blaze at Chicago's Historic Holy Name Cathedral". Fox News. February 4, 2009.
South Suburban College was founded in 1927 as Thornton Junior College. At that time, the college was an extension of Thornton Township High School in Harvey, Illinois. The Illinois Community College Act of 1965 created Community College District 510 and enlarged the area served to include Thornton Township High Schools District 205, Thornton Fractional Township High School District 215, and Bremen High School District 228.
South Suburban College is a public community college in South Holland, Illinois. It has a second campus in Oak Forest, Illinois.
^ As of spring 2019. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Spring Enrollment Report" (PDF). Illinois Community College Board. Retrieved 29 April 2020.
^ Bagnato, Andrew (April 25, 1995). "49ers Find A Big Package At Tiny Trinity". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved October 3, 2015.
Find sources: "South Suburban College" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
"Tom Baldwin". databaseFootball.com. Archived from the original on November 3, 2012. Retrieved November 26, 2012.
As of spring 2019. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Spring Enrollment Report" (PDF). Illinois Community College Board. Retrieved 29 April 2020.
^ "Ron Mahay Stats". Baseball Almanac. Retrieved November 26, 2012.
^ "Tom Baldwin". databaseFootball.com. Archived from the original on November 3, 2012. Retrieved November 26, 2012.
'Illinois Blue Book 1977-1978,' Biographical Sketch of R. Bruce Waddell, pg. 133
In 1969, the name was changed to Thornton Community College to emphasize the comprehensive mission of the college. The college moved into its existing main campus facilities in South Holland in 1972.
^ 'Illinois Blue Book 1977-1978,' Biographical Sketch of R. Bruce Waddell, pg. 133
In June 1988, the college's board of trustees voted to change the name of the institution to South Suburban College to more accurately reflect the geographic location of the college. To serve the western portion of the district and provide opportunities for district residents to complete a four-year degree, the Oak Forest Center was opened in Oak Forest in 1992.
^ "Rob Mackowiak Stats". Baseball Almanac. Retrieved November 26, 2012.
The main campus is situated in South Holland, Illinois with a second campus, the Oak Forest Center located in Oak Forest, Illinois.
Ruth Johnson Colvin, Founder of the non-profit Literacy Volunteers of America, Inc., now called ProLiteracy Worldwide in Syracuse, New York in 1962[4]
"Ruth Johnson Colvin / Lambda-Northwestern". Kappadelta.org. 2010. Archived from the original on March 26, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2010.
This page was last edited on 8 October 2022, at 23:30 (UTC).
^ "Ruth Johnson Colvin / Lambda-Northwestern". Kappadelta.org. 2010. Archived from the original on March 26, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2010.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "South Suburban College" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Bagnato, Andrew (April 25, 1995). "49ers Find A Big Package At Tiny Trinity". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved October 3, 2015.
^ "Julius Matos Stats". Baseball Almanac. Retrieved November 26, 2012.
'Illinois Blue Book 1991-1992,' Biographical Sketch of Robert P. Regan, pg. 107
^ 'Illinois Blue Book 1991-1992,' Biographical Sketch of Robert P. Regan, pg. 107
^ Andrzejewski, Adam (10 September 2014). "$26 Million Selfie at Illinois Jr. College". Forbes. Archived from the original on 29 December 2014. Retrieved 23 December 2014.
"'Hurricane Matt' leads area football stars on Arena Football League rosters"
^ "College of DuPage - Services | COD Centers". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-07-10. Retrieved 2016-07-22.
^ "Bolingbrook HS Grad Troy Doris Finishes 7th in Rio Olympics Triple Jump." The Times Weekly. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.
College of DuPage is a public community college with its main campus in Glen Ellyn, Illinois.[3] The college also owns and operates satellite campuses in Addison, Carol Stream, Naperville and Westmont.[4][5] With more than 20,000 students, the College of DuPage is the second largest provider of undergraduate education in Illinois, after University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.[6] The college serves students residing in Illinois' Community College District 502.[5]
^ a b "Seaton Computing Center Renovation to Begin this Summer". February 1, 2012. Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"College of DuPage". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
Thomas Witom (January 4, 2012). "Waterleaf a hidden gem that's worth seeking out". Archived from the original on July 27, 2012. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"Keenan Smith". wxyz.com. 19 October 2016. Archived from the original on 7 October 2017. Retrieved 6 October 2017.
^ a b "Arts Center Jazz Ensemble McAninch Arts Center at College of DuPage". Archived from the original on February 10, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"Frontier Campus Set for August Opening Dist. 204, College of DuPage Will Share Costs 50-50"
"College of DuPage Hospital Simulation Lab". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
The center also includes a Memorial to the September 11 attacks in the form of several exhibits in its lobby with the centerpiece being a steel beam recovered from the towers.[58]
^ Cohen, Jodie; St. Clair, Stacy (29 January 2015). "Critics boo as College of DuPage board reaffirms president's buyout". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on 12 February 2015. Retrieved 25 February 2015.
Michael T. Murphy became the college's third president in 1994.[13] In 2002, voters approved a $183-million bond referendum that provided funds for renovating and rebuilding the Glen Ellyn campus and off-campus locations.[3][14] Funds from the referendum were used to build the Homeland Security Education Center, the Student Services Center, and the Culinary & Hospitality Center.[3] In 2003, Dr. Sunil Chand replaced Murphy as the college's president. That year the College expanded with the opening of the Bloomingdale Center for Independent Learning.[15] The Carol Stream Community Education Center opened in 2004 and the West Chicago Community Education Center in 2005.[16] In fall 2005, College of DuPage converted from a quarter system to a semester system.[17]
^ Johnson, Drew (2 October 2014). "How a college hid $95 million in expense like booze, shooting clubs". The Washington Times -. Archived from the original on 14 February 2015. Retrieved 23 December 2014.
"College of DuPage Natural Restoration and Preservation Areas". cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2021-07-19. Retrieved 2021-07-19.
Bridget Doyle (September 26, 2011). "College of DuPage builds hotel, restaurant to help train students". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
Women's Division III Outdoor Track & Field: 2000, 2001, 2002, 2004, 2021
^ "College of DuPage Technology Education Center / DeStefano Partners". September 20, 2011. Archived from the original on March 13, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"College of DuPage enlarges facility". April 16, 2013. Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
St. Clair, Stacy; Cohen, Jodi S. (8 February 2015). "'Bobby Knight of college presidents'; College of DuPage president has critics -- yet big successes". Chicago Tribune. p. 1.
^ "Dan Bindert Named As WDCB Station Manager". October 28, 2013. Archived from the original on September 16, 2014. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
Truong, Quan (June 8, 2013). "COD storm-chasing trip overshadowed by loss of fellow chasers". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
^ "Frontier Campus Set for August Opening Dist. 204, College of DuPage Will Share Costs 50-50". May 23, 2006. Archived from the original on August 1, 2022. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
Andy Herren, winner of Big Brother 15. A part-time instructor, he was fired by the college for his behavior on the show.[81]
In January 2009, Dr. Robert L. Breuder became the college's president.[3] The Health and Science Center and Technical Education Center opened that summer on the Glen Ellyn campus. The Technical Education Center is 178000 square feet (16,500 m2) and houses the Automotive Technology, HVAC/ELMEC, Architecture, Horticulture, and Interior Design programs, and in a new steel, glass and precast concrete panel building on the west side of campus. The building was awarded LEED Silver certification and was designed to support horticulture, construction trades, architecture, interior design, construction management, and automotive technology.[23]
^ "College of DuPage - Berg Instructional Center (BIC) and Student Services Center (SSC)". cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-04-29. Retrieved 2016-04-28.
^ "Tom Pukstys." Tom Pukstys. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017
"Why Is the COD Early Childhood Center Being Closed?" (PDF). www.cod.edu. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2018-04-13.
Njcaa. MEN'S INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD NATIONAL CHAMPIONS (n.d.): n. pag. Web
The McAninch Arts Center was built in 1986.[11] In 1990, the Seaton Computing Center was built and housed computer-specific classrooms for the Computer Information Systems, Computer and Internet working Technologies, and Office Technology Information programs.[3][12] A year later, the college opened new campus locations in Naperville and Westmont, Illinois.[3]
"College Navigator - College of DuPage". National Center for Education Statistics. Retrieved 12 October 2022.
^ "Engineering Pathways". Archived from the original on 2019-05-23. Retrieved 2019-05-12.
The Seaton Computing Center was built in 1990 and houses computer-specific classrooms for the Computer Information Systems, Computer and Internetworking Technologies, and Office Technology Information programs.[12]
Besides the main campus in Glen Ellyn, the College of DuPage operates four other smaller locations in Illinois including one in Westmont, one in Naperville, one in Addison and one in Carol Stream.[66] All of the campuses provide many of the same services as the main campus including tutoring and testing.[67]
"College of DuPage Locations". Archived from the original on February 4, 2015. Retrieved February 4, 2015.
"Tom Pukstys." Tom Pukstys. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017
^ "College of DuPage Homeland Security Education Center". Archived from the original on March 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"College of DuPage - COD Centers". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-08-06. Retrieved 2016-07-22.
Women's Division III Fast Pitch Softball: 1998, 2000, 2001, 2004
^ "College of DuPage - COD Centers". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-08-06. Retrieved 2016-07-22.
Editorial Board (7 July 2014). "Use it or lose it". Editorial. Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on 1 August 2022. Retrieved 23 December 2014.
^ "Keenan Smith". wxyz.com. 19 October 2016. Archived from the original on 7 October 2017. Retrieved 6 October 2017.
The center has an Immersive Interior Training Lab, forensics and cybercrimes labs, an auditorium that doubles as a mock courtroom, a self-contained breathing apparatus lab, and a debriefing room.[57]
Bob McMillen, football player and member of the Arena Football Hall of Fame.[74]
Jeffrey Bils (May 12, 1994). "College Of Dupage Names New President". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"$95 Million in Hidden Spending Revealed at College of DuPage". Illinois Policy. 7 October 2014. Retrieved 23 December 2014.[permanent dead link]
"COD celebrates students in the Engineering Pathways Program". Daily Herald. College of DuPage News Bureau. 8 June 2018. Retrieved 12 October 2022.
Jauss, Bill (February 20, 2000). "2-time Olympian Returns To His Roots". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on October 7, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
^ Kraft, John (29 January 2015). "More than 500 citizens attend College of DuPage meeting". Archived from the original on 22 June 2015. Retrieved 22 June 2015.
The Physical Education Center is where the athletic program is and it also holds classrooms for many other courses.[62] It also has a fitness area on the 2nd floor which students and staff of the school as well as community members can join.[63][64]
"College of DuPage Technology Education Center / DeStefano Partners". September 20, 2011. Archived from the original on March 13, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"College of DuPage - Berg Instructional Center (BIC) and Student Services Center (SSC)". cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-04-29. Retrieved 2016-04-28.
College of DuPage offers an Engineering 2+2 Program partnered with the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign to earn a bachelor degree in engineering. Created in 2014,[41] the program provides guaranteed transfer admission to their College of Engineering if specific qualifications are maintained throughout the two years.[42] This program requires students to follow a planned arrangement of correlating courses that will set them up for their third collegiate year at the University of Illinois.
"District 502 Residency". Archived from the original on February 4, 2015. Retrieved February 4, 2015.
"Aaron Bailey". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
"Construction continues on new COD Student Services Center, BIC Renovation". March 25, 2011. Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
Shields, Evan (21 November 2014). "College of DuPage trustees vote 'no' to imprest audit, despite public outcry over spending". My Suburban Life. Downer's Grove, Illinois: Shaw Media. Archived from the original on 1 August 2022. Retrieved 23 December 2014.
"College of DuPage trustees vote 'no' to imprest audit, despite public outcry over spending"
Lori Rackl (September 11, 2013). "Naperville native Bob Odenkirk on his upcoming 'Breaking Bad' spinoff 'Better Call Saul'". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
Tyson, Charles (25 July 2014). "$20 million question". Inside Higher Education. Archived from the original on 14 February 2015. Retrieved 6 December 2014.
^ "COD Quick Facts". College of DuPage. Archived from the original on 19 December 2021. Retrieved 19 December 2021.
^ "COD Wins Red Grange Bowl". DailyHerald. December 3, 2016. Archived from the original on August 3, 2017.
In May 2008, the board of trustees abruptly removed the college president, Sunil Chand.[19][20] Faculty members and students protested a November 2008 board meeting to implement conservative activist David Horowitz's "Academic Bill of Rights", which takes control over curriculum away from teachers and gives it to the school board.[21][22] The faculty association sent a letter to the board noting that the changes were never discussed and no complaints over curriculum have been filed by students.[21]
^ Casey Banas (September 10, 1993). "Mission Accomplished, Mcaninch Leaving Du Page". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
College of DuPage President Chand ousted Archived 2011-06-08 at the Wayback Machine 27 May 2008 Daily Herald
"Construction continues on new COD Student Services Center, BIC Renovation"
A chaparral has always been DuPage's mascot. After fifty years of kelly green and gold, the current school colors are forest green and gray.[43]
The McAninch Arts Center was built in 1986, and is named after the college's second president.[3][11] The center has the Gahlberg Gallery, a space for visual art exhibition by professionals, faculty, and student exhibits. The center has the three performing spaces, the 780-seat proscenium Belushi Performance Hall, the 186-seat soft-thrust playhouse theater and the 70-seat black box studio theater.[59] The center houses the Cleve Carney Art Museum, classrooms for the college's academic programming and the 1,200 capacity outdoor Lakeside Pavilion. The center is home to three resident professional ensembles: Buffalo Theatre Ensemble, DuPage Opera Theatre, and New Philharmonic. The centerhas presented theater, music, dance and visual art to more than 1.5 million people since opening in 1986. A $35 million renovation to the center was completed in 2013. The renovation updated the major performance spaces, addressed significant infrastructure needs and improved several academic program areas.
^ Jeffrey Bils (May 12, 1994). "College Of Dupage Names New President". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
^ ECWd. "Edgar County Watchdogs". Archived from the original on 2015-06-21. Retrieved 2015-06-22.
Kraft, John (29 January 2015). "More than 500 citizens attend College of DuPage meeting". Archived from the original on 22 June 2015. Retrieved 22 June 2015.
"Dupage Upsets NEO in Citizens Bank Bowl". NJCAA. December 3, 2012. Archived from the original on 2017-08-03.
^ DeFABO, Mike (April 30, 2016). "College of DuPage alumnus Cooper picked by 49ers in NFL Draft". Archived from the original on August 3, 2017.
^ Editorial Board (7 July 2014). "Use it or lose it". Editorial. Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on 1 August 2022. Retrieved 23 December 2014.
^ "College of DuPage Student Resource Center and Library Renovation". Archived from the original on February 10, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
The men's football team has been in six NJCAA bowls games since 2000.[48] The school has won two of the six bowl games.The first bowl game won was called the Citizens Bank Bowl in 2012.[49] The second bowl game won was the Red Grange Bowl in 2016. This was the first bowl game hosted by College of DuPage.[50]
"More Board Turmoil at College of DuPage, as Faculty Bridles Over Proposals". Archived from the original on 2013-01-19. Retrieved 2009-02-09.
"COD Quick Facts". College of DuPage. Archived from the original on 19 December 2021. Retrieved 19 December 2021.
Higher Learning Commission (2018). "Statement of Accreditation Status". Archived from the original on September 24, 2018. Retrieved September 24, 2018.
In 2006, College of DuPage and the Indian Prairie District 204 created the Frontier Campus, a magnet school for District 204 seniors and an additional college regional center.[18] The college's Early Childhood Center and new campus roadways and parking lots were completed in 2007.[3] The following year, the College received a maximum seven-year re-accreditation through the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Institutions of Higher Education.
Slodysko, Brian (28 January 2015). "College of DuPage trustees vote again to OK $762,000 retirement deal for president". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on 26 February 2015. Retrieved 17 February 2015.
"College of DuPage's renovated McAninch center almost ready". 2013-11-25. Archived from the original on 2015-02-11. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"New Degrees and Certificates". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2020-08-05. Retrieved 2019-07-01.
Andrzejewski, Adam (10 September 2014). "$26 Million Selfie at Illinois Jr. College". Forbes. Archived from the original on 29 December 2014. Retrieved 23 December 2014.
"More Board Turmoil at College of DuPage, as Faculty Bridles Over Proposals"
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"2019-2020 Annual Report". College of DuPage Foundation. 30 June 2020. Retrieved 12 October 2022.
Johnson, Drew (2 October 2014). "How a college hid $95 million in expense like booze, shooting clubs". The Washington Times -. Archived from the original on 14 February 2015. Retrieved 23 December 2014.
^ a b Thomas Witom (January 4, 2012). "Waterleaf a hidden gem that's worth seeking out". Archived from the original on July 27, 2012. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"College of DuPage - Physical Education Center (PEC) | Campus Facilities". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2017-03-05. Retrieved 2016-12-03.
Coté, Denise (April 2007). "COD Faculty Distinguish Themselves!". Faculty Advocate newsletter. Archived from the original on May 28, 2014. Retrieved 28 May 2014. Maryann Krieglstein, COD's 2007 Woman of Distinction, is a woman committed to social justice: working, educating, and volunteering for and on behalf of women and children.
"College of DuPage - Berg Instructional Center (BIC) and Student Services Center (SSC)"
College of DuPage offers transfer degree and technical education programs in various fields and disciplines. The college offers 9 different associate degrees with 79 different associate degree options and 161 Certifications.[38] Academic Opportunities can be found in nine different areas including Adult Fast Track, Dual Credit programs for high school students, Field Studies & Outdoor Adventures, Global Education, Honors programs, Learning Communities, STEM, Study Abroad, and Workforce Development.
Maryann Krieglstein, social worker and community organizer. Krieglstein is a Human Services Professor emeritus and former Coordinator of the Human Services Program at College of DuPage.[82]
^ "COD celebrates students in the Engineering Pathways Program". Daily Herald. College of DuPage News Bureau. 8 June 2018. Retrieved 12 October 2022.
"College of DuPage alumnus Cooper picked by 49ers in NFL Draft"
^ Slodysko, Brian (28 January 2015). "College of DuPage trustees vote again to OK $762,000 retirement deal for president". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on 26 February 2015. Retrieved 17 February 2015.
Men's Division III Outdoor Track & Field: 2002, 2003, 2006, 2010, 2021
^ Oberhelman, Dave (February 27, 2017). "St. Francis picks McMillen to coach". Daily Herald. Archived from the original on October 6, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
^ College of DuPage Homeland Security Education Center Archived 2015-09-06 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved August 27, 2015.
Marisol Nichols, actress (24, Hermione Lodge on Riverdale, The Princess and the Marine)[72]
"College of DuPage - Services | COD Centers". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-07-10. Retrieved 2016-07-22.
The Student Services Center was completed in the fall of 2011, and is located in between the SRC and the BIC. Regarded as the "living room" of COD, the SCC holds the Admissions and Outreach, Campus Central, Counseling and Advising, Financial Aid, Academic Support, Registration, Records, Testing Center, Veterans Administrative Services, and the Cashier's Office. This building also holds the COD Board Room, Student Activities, the Veteran's lounge on the second floor, and Starbucks.[65]
Marcy Marro (May 1, 2012). "A Sense of Security:First-of-its-kind education center trains first responders". Archived from the original on September 7, 2012. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"Representative Districts of Illinois". Compassion: A New Philosophy of the Other. p. 239. Archived from the original on August 1, 2022. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
The college offers over 60 academic and pre-professional clubs, culture and ethnic clubs, faith-based clubs, honors societies, literary and performing arts clubs, political clubs, and service oriented clubs. The Courier, a student newspaper, Courier TV News, a student run newscast, The Chaparral a summer-themed magazine, and the Prairie Light Review, a humanities magazine are three student publications the college publishes. The college houses WDCB, a public radio station.
^ a b McGrath, David (May 22, 2015). "College of DuPage's name diminished, not its value". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on October 6, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
^ "College of DuPage Hospital Simulation Lab". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
^ a b "College Navigator - College of DuPage". National Center for Education Statistics. Retrieved 12 October 2022.
"College of DuPage - COD Board Selects Dr. Ann Rondeau as New President". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-05-06. Retrieved 2016-05-10.
"Naperville native Bob Odenkirk on his upcoming 'Breaking Bad' spinoff 'Better Call Saul'"
^ "COD graduate Lamorne Morris cast in 2 TV shows". Daily Herald. August 1, 2011. Archived from the original on October 6, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
"College of DuPage - Physical Education Center (PEC) | Campus Facilities"
^ a b ""Power Grab at DuPage"". Archived from the original on 2009-04-25. Retrieved 2009-02-09.
^ "Dupage Upsets NEO in Citizens Bank Bowl". NJCAA. December 3, 2012. Archived from the original on 2017-08-03.
DeFABO, Mike (April 30, 2016). "College of DuPage alumnus Cooper picked by 49ers in NFL Draft". Archived from the original on August 3, 2017.
^ Board Abruptly Ousts President of College of DuPage[dead link]
"Prairie Tours and Work Events". cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2021-07-19. Retrieved 2021-07-19.
The Culinary and Hospitality Center (CHC) was completed in 2011.[52] The center houses kitchens and bakeries, a six-room boutique Hotel run by students of the Hospitality program, two gourmet restaurants open to the public, a culinary amphitheater and the colleges TV station and video production departments. Waterleaf, one of the restaurant the center houses, serves brunch, lunch and dinner on Monday, Thursday and Sunday.[53] Tuesday and Wednesdays students in the College of DuPage Culinary Program take over the restaurant space and provide their own brand of cooking and dinner service.[53]
Tom Pukstys, six-time U.S. javelin champion, and member of the 1992 and 1996 U.S. Summer Olympic teams.[77]
The men's Ice Hockey team won the college's first NJCAA championship in 1980.[44] The college has a total of 31 NJCAA championship titles.
McGrath, David (May 22, 2015). "College of DuPage's name diminished, not its value". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on October 6, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
LeAnn Spencer (May 10, 2002). "COD to switch to semester system". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
The Health and Science Center was funded by the proceeds of the 2002 capital referendum and opened in 2010.[3] The center houses the Basic Nursing Assistant, Dental Hygiene, Diagnostic Medical Imaging, Health Science, Nuclear Medicine, Nursing, Physical Therapist Assistant, Radiography, Respiratory Care, Surgical Technology, Anatomy and Physiology, Microbiology, Biology, Chemistry, Zoology and Botany programs. The HSC also houses a Nursing Simulation and Long-Term care lab, Dental Hygiene lab and Surgical Technology operating room lab.[56] The building received LEED Gold certification.
"COD Wins Red Grange Bowl". DailyHerald. December 3, 2016. Archived from the original on August 3, 2017.
^ "College center to open Oct. 11". September 3, 2004. Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
The College of DuPage had a special fund for administrators called an "imprest fund." Any purchase made from the fund that is under the $15,000 is not subject to disclosure to the public or review by the Board of Trustees.[26] The Board of Trustees reportedly failed to review the itemized receipts for $26 million of expenditures that college administrators have spent over 16 months.[27][28] In October 2014, The Washington Times awarded COD its weekly “Golden Hammer Award,” given for waste, fraud, and abuse, in response to its management of this fund.[29]
"College of DuPage History". Archived from the original on February 4, 2015. Retrieved February 4, 2015.
^ "College of DuPage - Physical Education Center (PEC) | Campus Facilities". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2017-03-05. Retrieved 2016-12-03.
^ Matt Baron (August 20, 2003). "College of DuPage gets 'A' for expansion". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
Phase one of the Homeland Security Education Center was funded by the proceeds of the 2002 capital referendum and completed in 2011. It houses the Criminal Justice program, the Fire Science/EMS program, the Suburban Law Enforcement Academy and the COD police department.
^ Shields, Evan (21 November 2014). "College of DuPage trustees vote 'no' to imprest audit, despite public outcry over spending". My Suburban Life. Downer's Grove, Illinois: Shaw Media. Archived from the original on 1 August 2022. Retrieved 23 December 2014.
"Legislators' Portraits and Biographies" (PDF). Illinois Blue Book 2017-2018. Springfield, Illinois: Illinois Secretary of State. 2017. p. 94. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2017-07-07. Retrieved 2017-10-06.
^ "Prairie Tours and Work Events". cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2021-07-19. Retrieved 2021-07-19.
"Critics boo as College of DuPage board reaffirms president's buyout"
"College of DuPage - Physical Education Center (PEC)". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-06-29. Retrieved 2016-07-13.
^ Index, Academics Portal. "Academics Portal Index > Home". academics.utep.edu. Archived from the original on 2017-08-22. Retrieved 2017-10-06.
^ "College of DuPage". SchoolChoices.org. Archived from the original on 31 May 2022. Retrieved 19 December 2021.
^ "More Board Turmoil at College of DuPage, as Faculty Bridles Over Proposals". Archived from the original on 2013-01-19. Retrieved 2009-02-09.
"$95 Million in Hidden Spending Revealed at College of DuPage"
The men's track and field team has competed in both NJCAA Division III and Division I. In Division III, College of DuPage was national champion for outdoor track and field in 2002,2003,2006, 2010 and 2021.[45] Several athletes from COD's track and field program have started their careers at COD. Tom Pukstys began his career at COD before going on to compete in his first Olympic Games in 1992, coming in 10th place.[46] Troy Doris from Bolingbrook, Illinois,also started his career at COD. In 2016 Troy Doris appeared for Guyana in the triple jump, placing 7th.[47]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"2019-2020 Annual Report". College of DuPage Foundation. 30 June 2020. Retrieved 12 October 2022.
The library has partnerships with various community-based and state and national library organizations. The Library's Philanthropy Center is a partnership with the Donors Forum of Chicago. The Library also has a residency in community college librarianship program, designed to offer a two-year intensive, mentored experience in community college librarianship to a recent library school graduate. The Library also provides resources and facilities for the College's Library Technical Assistance (LTA) certificate program. In January 2000, the library received the Excellence in Academic Libraries Award, sponsored by the Association of College and Research Libraries and Blackwells' Book Services.
In 1968, the Glen Ellyn campus location was acquired.[3] A year later, three interim buildings were constructed west of Lambert Road in Glen Ellyn. The Berg Instructional Center, the college's first permanent building, opened in 1973.[7] WDCB, a public radio station owned by the college, was founded in 1977.[8] Harold D. McAninch was appointed as the college's second president in 1979.[9] In 1982, the college began publishing thePrairie Light Review, a literary magazine. The Student Resource Center (SRC) and Physical Education and Recreation Center opened in 1983.[10]
"College of DuPage Student Resource Center and Library Renovation". Archived from the original on February 10, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
^ "College of DuPage Natural Restoration and Preservation Areas". cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2021-07-19. Retrieved 2021-07-19.
4Athletics											Toggle Athletics subsection																					4.1Baseball																											4.2Ice hockey																											4.3Track and field																											4.4Football																											4.5National championships
"College of DuPage trustees vote again to OK $762,000 retirement deal for president"
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m
^ St. Clair, Stacy; Cohen, Jodi S. (8 February 2015). "'Bobby Knight of college presidents'; College of DuPage president has critics -- yet big successes". Chicago Tribune. p. 1.
Karen McConnaughay, member of the Illinois Senate. She graduated with an associate's from College of DuPage.[73]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m "College of DuPage History". Archived from the original on February 4, 2015. Retrieved February 4, 2015.
^ "College of DuPage's renovated McAninch center almost ready". 2013-11-25. Archived from the original on 2015-02-11. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
John Belushi, actor and comedian (Animal House, The Blues Brothers, Saturday Night Live)[70]
^ Tyson, Charles (25 July 2014). "$20 million question". Inside Higher Education. Archived from the original on 14 February 2015. Retrieved 6 December 2014.
"Seaton Computing Center Renovation to Begin this Summer". February 1, 2012. Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
^ "College of DuPage - Chaparral Fitness". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-07-15. Retrieved 2016-07-13.
The Russell R. Kirt Prairie, Ecological Study Area and B.J. Hoddinott Wildlife Sanctuary are three natural areas maintained by College of DuPage on the Glen Ellyn campus.[60] Tours and work events are offered to the public.[61]
^ College of DuPage President Chand ousted Archived 2011-06-08 at the Wayback Machine 27 May 2008 Daily Herald
^ "College of DuPage". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
"Arts Center Jazz Ensemble McAninch Arts Center at College of DuPage"
^ a b Oleksinski, Johnny (March 10, 2014). "College of DuPage honors Belushi brothers". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on October 6, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
Oleksinski, Johnny (March 10, 2014). "College of DuPage honors Belushi brothers". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on October 6, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
Matt Rahn, offensive lineman for several Arena Football League teams. He played football for the College of DuPage Chaparrals.[78]
Vorva, Jeff (February 23, 2012). "'Hurricane Matt' leads area football stars on Arena Football League rosters". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on March 7, 2016. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
^ Lori Rackl (September 11, 2013). "Naperville native Bob Odenkirk on his upcoming 'Breaking Bad' spinoff 'Better Call Saul'". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
"College of DuPage". SchoolChoices.org. Archived from the original on 31 May 2022. Retrieved 19 December 2021.
Werner Krieglstein, retired professor; COD's Teacher of the Year (2003); University of Chicago fellow and Fulbright Scholar; philosopher, author, and actor.[83]
College of DuPage Homeland Security Education Center Archived 2015-09-06 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved August 27, 2015.
Ross, Dalton (September 19, 2013). "'Big Brother': Andy, GinaMarie, Spencer talk about losing their jobs". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 7, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
^ a b "District 502 Residency". Archived from the original on February 4, 2015. Retrieved February 4, 2015.
^ Tracy Butler (February 12, 2014). "Storm Chasers". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
^ Vorva, Jeff (February 23, 2012). "'Hurricane Matt' leads area football stars on Arena Football League rosters". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on March 7, 2016. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
^ Coté, Denise (April 2007). "COD Faculty Distinguish Themselves!". Faculty Advocate newsletter. Archived from the original on May 28, 2014. Retrieved 28 May 2014. Maryann Krieglstein, COD's 2007 Woman of Distinction, is a woman committed to social justice: working, educating, and volunteering for and on behalf of women and children.
Matt Baron (August 20, 2003). "College of DuPage gets 'A' for expansion". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
Matthew John Armstrong, actor (American Dreams, Heroes, The Young and the Restless)[68]
^ "College of DuPage - COD Board Selects Dr. Ann Rondeau as New President". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-05-06. Retrieved 2016-05-10.
On January 22, 2015, the board of trustees voted to give COD President Robert Breuder $763,000 as a retirement package. The Chicago Tribune wrote that "some trustees now acknowledge that the buyout was negotiated to terminate Breuder's contract, which had been secretly extended to 2019."[32][33] A spokesman from the office of Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner said the administration had been watching the entire vote process carefully and had notified the Illinois Community College Board, the state authority over community colleges.[34] This retirement package was voted again during the January 28, 2015 meeting after the Edgar County Watchdogs[35] and others won a Temporary Restraining Order directing the board to hold its meetings in a room large enough to accommodate those wishing to attend. This second January meeting saw more than 500 attendees, and at least 60 people spoke during public comment lasting several hours.[36]
The Student Resource Center holds the Library, Bookstore, Jack H. Turner Conference Center, Records, Learning Commons, Continuing Education/Extended Learning, Academic Computing Center and main cafeteria and the offices for the president.
""Power Grab at DuPage"". Archived from the original on 2009-04-25. Retrieved 2009-02-09.
"Arts Center Jazz Ensemble McAninch Arts Center at College of DuPage". Archived from the original on February 10, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"Buccaneers hire Jaguars assistant DL coach Paul Spicer for same role"
^ "New Degrees and Certificates". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2020-08-05. Retrieved 2019-07-01.
"How a college hid $95 million in expense like booze, shooting clubs"
^ Njcaa. MEN'S INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD NATIONAL CHAMPIONS (n.d.): n. pag. Web
"College center to open Oct. 11". September 3, 2004. Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
Index, Academics Portal. "Academics Portal Index > Home". academics.utep.edu. Archived from the original on 2017-08-22. Retrieved 2017-10-06.
"Frontier Campus Set for August Opening Dist. 204, College of DuPage Will Share Costs 50-50". May 23, 2006. Archived from the original on August 1, 2022. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
^ "Hollywood no 'American Horror Story' for Naperville native". 2012-11-06. Archived from the original on 2015-02-12. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
^ "College of DuPage enlarges facility". April 16, 2013. Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
^ "Why Is the COD Early Childhood Center Being Closed?" (PDF). www.cod.edu. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2018-04-13.
"Bolingbrook HS Grad Troy Doris Finishes 7th in Rio Olympics Triple Jump." The Times Weekly. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.
Cohen, Jodie; St. Clair, Stacy (29 January 2015). "Critics boo as College of DuPage board reaffirms president's buyout". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on 12 February 2015. Retrieved 25 February 2015.
"Engineering Pathways". Archived from the original on 2019-05-23. Retrieved 2019-05-12.
7Notable faculty and alumni											Toggle Notable faculty and alumni subsection																					7.1Alumni																											7.2Faculty
^ Jauss, Bill (February 20, 2000). "2-time Olympian Returns To His Roots". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on October 7, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
"COD graduate Lamorne Morris cast in 2 TV shows". Daily Herald. August 1, 2011. Archived from the original on October 6, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
The Berg Instructional Center was opened in 1974. The structure spans four levels that houses many classrooms, workshops, labs, department offices as well as faculty offices, and conference areas. It was named after the College of DuPage's first president, Rodney K. Berg.
5Main campus											Toggle Main campus subsection																					5.1Berg Instructional Center (BIC)																											5.2Culinary and Hospitality Center (CHC)																											5.3Early Childhood Center (ECC)																											5.4Health and Science Center (HSC)																											5.5Robert J. Miller Homeland Security Education Center (HEC)																											5.6The McAninch Arts Center																											5.7Natural Areas																											5.8Physical Education Center (PEC)																											5.9Seaton Computing Center																											5.10Student Resource Center (SRC)																											5.11Student Services Center (SSC)																											5.12Technical Education Center (TEC)
In December 2015, the Higher Learning Commission placed COD on accreditation probation, due to concerns about "operating with integrity and governance of the College." That probation was lifted two years later.[37]
^ Bridget Doyle (September 26, 2011). "College of DuPage builds hotel, restaurant to help train students". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"College of DuPage builds hotel, restaurant to help train students"
"College of DuPage - Early Childhood Center". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-08-10. Retrieved 2016-07-25.
College of DuPage has a meteorology program that offers students credit for storm chasing.[39] It was the first program in the country to offer storm chasing classes to undergraduates in 1989.[40] Students in the department participate in community skywarn programs as advance spotters. The architecture program is one of the college's strongest programs and many graduates transfer to University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign or the University of Illinois at Chicago.
The Early Childhood Center was completed in 2007.[3] The center serves more than 100 children and houses the Early Childhood Education and Care degree and certificate programs. This building is located across College rd. from the main campus. It has kindergarten, part-time preschool, a daycare and full-time preschool.[54] The Early Childhood Center was closed June 1, 2018 due to a decline in enrollment and increased operational costs. [55]
Phase one of the Homeland Security Education Center was completed in 2011. The center houses the college's Criminal Justice and Fire Science Technology programs, as well as the Suburban Law Enforcement Academy and the COD police department.[25]
^ Marcy Marro (May 1, 2012). "A Sense of Security:First-of-its-kind education center trains first responders". Archived from the original on September 7, 2012. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
The 1992 team was the 1st team at COD to reach the NJCAA World Series. They finished in 2nd place, dropping the title game to Gloucester County of New Jersey. They were ranked #1 for the majority of the season and were led by head coach Steve Kranz, who was the 1992 Chicagoland Pitch and Hit Club Coach of the Year for local colleges and high schools. The Chaparrals were 40-12 on the season. In 1993 they featured pitcher Shayne Bennett, an Australia native who was drafted in the 25th round of the MLB draft by the Boston Red Sox. He would go on to pitch in MLB until the 2000 season.
The Technical Education Center was funded through proceeds from the 2002 capital referendum and was completed in 2010. It houses the college's Architecture, Interior Design, Horticulture, Automotive Technology, Computer-Aided Design, Construction Management, Electro-Mechanical Technology, Electronics-Integrated Engineering Technology, HVAC-R, Manufacturing Technology and Welding Technology programs. The building is LEED certified.
Tracy Butler (February 12, 2014). "Storm Chasers". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
Evans, Thayer (February 24, 2015). "Buccaneers hire Jaguars assistant DL coach Paul Spicer for same role". Sports Illustrated. Archived from the original on October 6, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
"'Big Brother': Andy, GinaMarie, Spencer talk about losing their jobs"
In May 2016, Dr Ann Rondeau was elected to become the sixth president of the College of DuPage.[24]
The men’s football team has sent several athletes to four-year universities Fahn Cooper played during the 2013 season. He transferred to the University of Mississippi and later was drafted to the San Francisco 49ers in the 5th round of the NFL 2016 draft.[51]
^ LeAnn Spencer (May 10, 2002). "COD to switch to semester system". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"College of DuPage - COD Board Selects Dr. Ann Rondeau as New President"
"Dan Bindert Named As WDCB Station Manager". October 28, 2013. Archived from the original on September 16, 2014. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
"Hollywood no 'American Horror Story' for Naperville native". 2012-11-06. Archived from the original on 2015-02-12. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
Oberhelman, Dave (February 27, 2017). "St. Francis picks McMillen to coach". Daily Herald. Archived from the original on October 6, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
Casey Banas (September 10, 1993). "Mission Accomplished, Mcaninch Leaving Du Page". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
^ "Construction continues on new COD Student Services Center, BIC Renovation". March 25, 2011. Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
The 475,000-square-foot (44,100 m2) BIC Renovation (phase one completed in 2011; phase two completed in 2012) and the new 65,000-square-foot (6,000 m2) Student Services Center (SSC) (completed in 2011) included the reorganization of faculty and administrative departments, expanded student commons, updated classrooms and labs. The addition of the new Student Services Center which now connects the SRC and BIC with a large naturally lit commons, a new coffee shop and 'one-stop-shop' student services offices and operations. The renovation and Student Services Center replaced the deteriorating BIC exterior with a new, modern panel and glass exterior and bright interior spaces. The transfer of the classes to the BIC enabled the construction of the next phase of the Homeland Security Education Center expansion on the west side of campus. The project was designed by the Architecture firm Loebl Schlossman Hackl, with Brandon Lipman AIA as Principal Designer.
The Culinary and Hospitality Center (CHC) was completed in 2011. It houses culinary kitchens and bakeries, a six-room boutique hotel run by students of the hospitality program, two gourmet restaurants open to the public, a culinary amphitheater and the college's Multimedia Services department. Waterleaf, one of the college's two restaurants, seats 150 people. The project was also designed by the Architecture firm Loebl Schlossman Hackl, with Brandon Lipman AIA as Principal Designer.
^ Ross, Dalton (September 19, 2013). "'Big Brother': Andy, GinaMarie, Spencer talk about losing their jobs". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 7, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
^ "$95 Million in Hidden Spending Revealed at College of DuPage". Illinois Policy. 7 October 2014. Retrieved 23 December 2014.[permanent dead link]
^ "College of DuPage - Physical Education Center (PEC)". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-06-29. Retrieved 2016-07-13.
"College of DuPage - Chaparral Fitness". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-07-15. Retrieved 2016-07-13.
In 2014, COD President Robert Breuder sent an email to the college’s trustees asking them to come up with a justification that would allow the State of Illinois’ to disburse a $20 million grant that the legislature previously had approved. In the email, Breuder proposed associating the released funds with a planned $50 million teaching and learning center.[30] The appropriation incident and Breuder’s email led to an editorial in the Chicago Tribune that called the episode, “…a seedy little money grab by officials at the College of DuPage.”[31]
ECWd. "Edgar County Watchdogs". Archived from the original on 2015-06-21. Retrieved 2015-06-22.
The college offers "3+1 degree" programs to earn a bachelor of science or bachelor of arts degree. The program requires students to take three years of classes at College of DuPage and a fourth year taught by a partner university on College of DuPage's campus. Partner universities include Benedictine University, Concordia University Chicago, Governors State University, Lewis University, National Louis University, and Roosevelt University. Continuing Educational opportunities are categorized in five groupings including Adult Enrichment, Business Solutions, Healthcare Education, Professional Development, and Youth Academy.
Bob Odenkirk, actor, comedian and writer (Better Call Saul, Mr. Show with Bob and David)[76]
^ Truong, Quan (June 8, 2013). "COD storm-chasing trip overshadowed by loss of fellow chasers". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
^ "Aaron Bailey". Archived from the original on February 11, 2015. Retrieved February 11, 2015.
^ "College of DuPage - Early Childhood Center". www.cod.edu. Archived from the original on 2016-08-10. Retrieved 2016-07-25.
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 01:29 (UTC).
^ "Legislators' Portraits and Biographies" (PDF). Illinois Blue Book 2017-2018. Springfield, Illinois: Illinois Secretary of State. 2017. p. 94. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2017-07-07. Retrieved 2017-10-06.
Steven Best, animal rights activist, author, talk-show host, and associate professor of philosophy at the University of Texas at El Paso.[71]
^ Higher Learning Commission (2018). "Statement of Accreditation Status". Archived from the original on September 24, 2018. Retrieved September 24, 2018.
"College of DuPage Homeland Security Education Center". Archived from the original on March 11, 2015. Retrieved February 10, 2015.
^ "Representative Districts of Illinois". Compassion: A New Philosophy of the Other. p. 239. Archived from the original on August 1, 2022. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
^ "College of DuPage Locations". Archived from the original on February 4, 2015. Retrieved February 4, 2015.
^ Evans, Thayer (February 24, 2015). "Buccaneers hire Jaguars assistant DL coach Paul Spicer for same role". Sports Illustrated. Archived from the original on October 6, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
"Brian Leiter's Law School Reports: DePaul Provost Ousts Law Dean Without Consulting Faculty, Plans to Appoint an Outsider as Interim Dean". Leiterlawschool.typepad.com. June 19, 2009. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
""College celebrates 100 years of preparing leaders and begins a new century with a new name", Commerce Exchange (DePaul University Driehaus College of Business alumni publication), Winter 2013". Archived from the original on July 28, 2013.
"Annual Report of Faculty Diversity: Race and Gender Indicators 2022"
"Jeffrey M. Shaman | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago"
"What's Going on at DePaul Law? – Law Blog – WSJ"
^ "Undergraduate Majors | Academics | College of Science and Health | DePaul University". Archived from the original on May 8, 2016. Retrieved May 15, 2016.
"Graduate Programs | Academics | College of Science and Health | DePaul University". Archived from the original on May 20, 2016. Retrieved May 15, 2016.
^ "Internships | DePaul University College of Communication". communication.depaul.edu. Retrieved January 4, 2016.
Jaschik, Scott (October 19, 2016). "DePaul Bars 'Unborn Lives Matter' Posters". Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved December 2, 2018.
The DePaul University College of Law is located in the Loop at 25 East Jackson Boulevard. Ranked #29 in U.S. News & World Report's Best Law Schools 2018 edition. Notable faculty members include Alberto Coll, former United States Assistant Secretary of Defense under George H. W. Bush, and Patty Gerstenblith, appointed by Barack Obama to serve as the chair of the President's Cultural Property Advisory Committee in the U.S. Department of State. Other faculty members include Susan Bandes, expert in criminal law and emotion in law;[54] Brian Havel, expert in international aviation law;[55] Roberta Kwall, expert in intellectual property law;[56] Joshua Sarnoff, expert in patent law and appointee to USPTO;[57] and Jeffrey Shaman, expert in constitutional law.[58]
^ Galuppo, Mia (August 13, 2021). "2021's Top 25 American Film Schools, Ranked". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved October 28, 2021.
^ "DePaul University College of Communication". Communication.depaul.edu. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
In that year, James Quigley, Archbishop of Chicago, announced plans to create a preparatory seminary, now Archbishop Quigley Preparatory Seminary, for the archdiocese and allow the Jesuit Saint Ignatius College, now Loyola University Chicago to move its collegiate programs to the north side, threatening St. Vincent College's survival.
"What the Finkelstein Tenure Fight Tells Us About the State of Academia"
List of churches in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago
Ecker, Danny (September 23, 2013). "McPier approves new DePaul arena design". Crain's. Retrieved September 4, 2014.
The College of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences is DePaul's third largest college and is located primarily in the Lincoln Park Campus, which occupies 36 acres (14.57 ha) in Chicago's Lincoln Park community.[59] Notable college faculty members include Aminah McCloud, director of the Islamic World Studies program; Joseph Schwieterman, director of the Chaddick Institute for Metropolitan Development.[60] The philosophy department is also noted as a first-rate program in 20th century continental philosophy, particularly at the graduate level, according to the Hartmann Report[61] The department includes major Heidegger translators, Parvis Emad, David Farrell Krell and William McNeill. The graduate School of Public Service (SPS), located in the Loop Campus, educates nonprofit and government professionals, includes an interdisciplinary faculty, and offers a number of international programs.[62] It is the largest program of its type in the midwest. The English department offers the Oeuvre Prize to distinguished writers semi-annually to recognize significant accomplishments in Literature.
"Carnegie Classifications Institution Lookup". carnegieclassifications.iu.edu. Center for Postsecondary Education. Retrieved September 12, 2020.
"The Hartmann Report". Webcitation.org. Archived from the original on October 19, 2009. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"DePaul University". Newsroom.depaul.edu. October 5, 2009. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
3Academics, rankings, and reputation											Toggle Academics, rankings, and reputation subsection																					3.1Driehaus College of Business																											3.2College of Communication																											3.3College of Computing and Digital Media																											3.4College of Education																											3.5College of Law																											3.6College of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences																											3.7College of Science and Health																											3.8School of Music																											3.9School for New Learning																											3.10The Theatre School																											3.11Continuing and Professional Education
In June 2009, the university removed the dean of the College of Law, Glen Weissenberger. The recommendation to remove Weissenberger was made by DePaul's provost, Helmut Epp, who stated in an e-mail to College of Law faculty and staff that "the working relationship between the dean and the administration had deteriorated to the point where it had become difficult to accomplish the college’s work."[19] Two days previous, Weissenberger had reported to the American Bar Association (ABA) that DePaul's administration had failed to redistribute law school tuition income appropriately, in violation of express agreements between the College of Law and the university administration. Weissenberger's termination caused some DePaul faculty and students, as well as several independent observers in the law school community, to speculate that Weissenberger's unexpected removal was directly related to his report to the ABA.[20][21] The law school faculty apprised the ABA of irregularities in the removal of Weissenberger and the appointment of an interim dean, but the ABA did not find any violations that would warrant the rescission of the school's accreditation.[22]
^ ""College celebrates 100 years of preparing leaders and begins a new century with a new name", Commerce Exchange (DePaul University Driehaus College of Business alumni publication), Winter 2013". Archived from the original on July 28, 2013.
^ "The Hartmann Report". Webcitation.org. Archived from the original on October 19, 2009. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
The College of Education is engaged in partnerships with more than 150 Chicago-area schools, including the Chicago Public Schools, parochial and private institutions. DePaul's education program was among the first to become accredited by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education in 1965 and remains accredited today. The school offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs in early childhood, elementary and secondary education and physical education; bilingual/bicultural education; social and cultural foundations in education; curriculum studies; educational leadership; human services and counseling; and a program in language, literacy and specialized instruction. Many of the school's graduates go on to teach in the Chicago Public Schools, private Catholic schools in the city of Chicago, and public and private schools throughout the metropolitan area.
^ "Princeton Review 2021 Top Game Design Schools". The Hollywood Reporter. August 24, 2020. Retrieved July 12, 2021.
Malone, Tara (May 19, 2010). "Banking on Education". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved August 23, 2013.
^ "Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings 2022". The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education. Retrieved July 26, 2022.
"DePaul operates on a quarter system, with three quarters (autumn, winter, spring) making up the formal academic year" (PDF). Retrieved November 19, 2012.
Nearly 1100 members, 26 chapters total, and 11 philanthropy-based groups make up the community. There are 10 male fraternities, 16 female sororities, and 1 co-educational organization not part of traditional Greek Life, (Alpha Phi Omega national service fraternity). The largest fraternity on campus, Phi Kappa Psi, has 75 members and the largest sorority, Alpha Omicron Pi, has 110 members. 11 organizations are identified as being culturally-based: 6 organizations are Latino interest based, 4 organizations are Historically Black Greek Letter Organizations, and 2 are Asian interest based.
This page was last edited on 10 March 2023, at 07:12 (UTC).
"25 top programs for undergrads – Babson College (1) – FORTUNE Small Business". Money.cnn.com. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ Malone, Tara (May 19, 2010). "Banking on Education". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved August 23, 2013.
In 1972, DePaul created the School for New Learning, one of the first colleges in the nation for adult students. In 1976 and 1977, the university acquired the land and buildings of the McCormick Theological Seminary, which increased its presence in Lincoln Park. In 1978, DePaul acquired the 47-year-old Goodman School of Drama from the Goodman Theatre and transformed it into The Theatre School.
"2022-23 Best Global Universities Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved February 25, 2023.
Jones, Ashby (June 19, 2009). "What's Going on at DePaul Law? – Law Blog – WSJ". Blogs.wsj.com. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ "Colleges and Business Schools". Entrepreneur.com. Retrieved March 17, 2011.
^ "DePaul Continuing and Professional Education (CPE)". grad.depaul.edu. Archived from the original on April 19, 2009.
The College of Science and Health (CSH) was established in 2011. CSH offers many undergraduate majors[63] and graduate programs[64] in the following areas:
^ "Roberta R. Kwall | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago". law.depaul.edu.
^ "Topic Galleries". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on July 31, 2009. Retrieved March 17, 2011.
reporter, Becky Yerak, Chicago Tribune. "Chicago investment manager donating $30 million to DePaul University's business school". chicagotribune.com.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Pickett, Cindy, ed. (2022). "Annual Report of Faculty Diversity: Race and Gender Indicators 2022". DePaul.edu. DePaul University, Faculty Council. Retrieved March 14, 2022.
^ "Taxpayer-funded Wintrust Arena falls short of attendance projections". Illinois Policy. June 23, 2018. Retrieved October 31, 2018.
""College celebrates 100 years of preparing leaders and begins a new century with a new name", Commerce Exchange (DePaul University Driehaus College of Business alumni publication), Winter 2013"
DePaul University is a private Catholic research university in Chicago, Illinois. Founded by the Vincentians in 1898, the university takes its name from the 17th-century French priest Saint Vincent de Paul. In 1998, it became the largest Catholic university in terms of enrollment in North America. Following in the footsteps of its founders, DePaul places special emphasis on recruiting first-generation students and others from disadvantaged backgrounds.[5][6]
"DePaul University College of Communication". Communication.depaul.edu. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"Roberta R. Kwall | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago". law.depaul.edu.
"Creative Colleges: A Guide for Student Actors, Artists, Dancers, Musicians, and Writers (9781932662054): Elaina Loveland: Books"
"B-schools with entrepreneurial flair – Babson College (1) – FORTUNE Small Business". Money.cnn.com. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
A privately owned and operated building, 1237 West, was built one block off campus as a student apartment community for over 580 DePaul University students with retail businesses on the first floor. This building is now named Ion Lincoln Park.
^ The percentage of students who are a part of the American middle class at the bare minimum.
^ "DePaul University". Newsroom.depaul.edu. October 5, 2009. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ a b c "About DePaul University". DePaul University. Retrieved April 28, 2020.
In 1942, DePaul named Ray Meyer as head basketball coach. Meyer coached for DePaul until he retired in 1984, leading the 1945 team to the championship of the National Invitation Tournament and earning numerous honors, including election to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 1979, the fourth active coach to be so honored. The university would also go on to honor Ray Meyer by naming its fitness center after him.
DePaul University. "Softball". DePaul Blue Demon. Retrieved October 27, 2020.
^ "Carnegie Classifications Institution Lookup". carnegieclassifications.iu.edu. Center for Postsecondary Education. Retrieved September 12, 2020.
^ a b "Association for Psychological Science: APS Fellows". www.psychologicalscience.org. Archived from the original on August 13, 2020. Retrieved February 17, 2019.
"Susan Bandes | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago". law.depaul.edu.
"College Scorecard: DePaul University". United States Department of Education. Retrieved May 8, 2022.
^ "Graduate Programs | Academics | College of Science and Health | DePaul University". Archived from the original on May 20, 2016. Retrieved May 15, 2016.
"DePaul operates on a quarter system, with three quarters (autumn, winter, spring) making up the formal academic year"
By 1930 more than 5,000 students were enrolled in eight colleges and schools on two campuses. The Great Depression led to fluctuations in enrollment and tuition as well as cutbacks, including the elimination of the football team in 1939. In 1938, the Department of Elementary Education was established, reportedly the only one in the Midwest and one of six in the United States.
DePaul partnered with Roosevelt University and Columbia College Chicago to build the University Center of Chicago, an 18-story residence hall two blocks south of DPC housing 1,700 students, which opened in 2004 at the intersection of State and Congress Streets. Robert Morris University later joined and also houses students in the University Center of Chicago.
^ "25 top programs for undergrads – Babson College (1) – FORTUNE Small Business". Money.cnn.com. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ "Creative Colleges: A Guide for Student Actors, Artists, Dancers, Musicians, and Writers (9781932662054): Elaina Loveland: Books". Amazon. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Pickett, Cindy, ed. (2022). "Annual Report of Faculty Diversity: Race and Gender Indicators 2022". DePaul.edu. DePaul University, Faculty Council. Retrieved March 14, 2022.
In response, the Vincentians re-chartered in 1907 as DePaul University, expressly offering all of its courses of study to men and women of any religious background. DePaul began admitting women in 1911 and awarded degrees to its first female graduates in 1912. It was one of the first Catholic universities to admit female students in a co-educational setting.
DePaul's mascot is DIBS which stands for Demon In a Blue Suit. DIBS is present at every Blue Demons basketball game and makes frequent appearances at DePaul's Lincoln Park Campus and charity appearances around the Chicago metropolitan area.
In May 2016, Activists disrupted the speech of right-wing political commentator Milo Yiannopoulos. The event was subsequently cancelled.[23][24] In 2016 DePaul university required a campus Republican group to redesign posters reading "Unborn Lives Matter" before granting permission to post them on the campus. University administrators said they objected to the poster because it was provocative toward the Black Lives Matter movement, but said that they were open to the group posting other pro-life flyers at DePaul.[25]
Courses are primarily offered on the Lincoln Park Campus. Notable professors include psychology professors Suzanne T. Bell,[65] Joseph R. Ferrari,[65] and Leonard A. Jason.[66] The community and clinical-community psychology programs won the Award for Excellence in Education Programs from the Society for Community Research and Action (SCRA Division 27 of the American Psychological Association); DePaul's program was the first recipient of the award, given for the first time in 2007.
^ "Bloomberg Businessweek Rankings". Archived from the original on August 23, 2013. Retrieved August 23, 2013.
^ "Dedication of the Richard H. Driehaus College of Business - 2012-13 - Speeches and Communications - DePaul University". offices.depaul.edu. Archived from the original on June 18, 2017. Retrieved June 4, 2017.
"Top 50 Animation Schools and Colleges in the U.S. – 2021 College Rankings". January 11, 2021.
DePaul opened Wintrust Arena in October 2017 after using Allstate Arena for previous basketball games. The arena has a capacity of 10,387 seats and is the current home court for the men's and women's basketball teams. DePaul University split the cost with Chicago taxpayers, with contributions of $82.5 million respectively. The predicted attendance to the arena was 370,000 people annually for games and other events. However, from August 2017 to May 2018, fewer than 168,100 people attended Wintrust Arena for their events.[26]
"Top 50 Animation Schools and Colleges in the U.S. – 2021 College Rankings"
"Jeffrey M. Shaman | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago". law.depaul.edu.
"What the Finkelstein Tenure Fight Tells Us About the State of Academia". Washington Report on Middle East Affairs. August 2007.
^ "Best for double majors – Babson College (1) – FORTUNE Small Business". Money.cnn.com. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"2022-2023 Best National Universities". U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved September 13, 2022.
In 1968, the Black Student Union (BSU) was formed. In 1969, while in ongoing negotiations with DePaul administrators, members of the group occupied a campus building for two days and led several related rallies. The actions helped bring concerns of black students, and later those of Latino, Muslim, and other student groups, to the fore. The university now sponsors a wide range of student organizations, including BSU, the DePaul Conservative Alliance, the DePaul Irish Society, the DePaul Alliance for Latino Empowerment, United Muslims Moving Ahead, Hillel, the Asian Cultural Exchange, the African Student Organization, the Hellenic-American Student Association, and the Activist Student Union.
^ The percentage of students who received an income-based federal Pell grant intended for low-income students.
With the entry of the United States into World War I in 1918, DePaul formed a unit of the US Army Reserve Officer Training Corps and converted its College Theatre into Army barracks. DePaul also mobilized for World War II, offering its facilities for war training and free courses to train people for industry work. The G.I. Bill, which paid the tuition of veterans enrolled in college, turned the financial tide for DePaul. Enrollment in 1945 skyrocketed to 8,857 students, twice as many as the previous year, and totaled more than 11,000 in 1948. Although a consulting firm recommended relocating from its deteriorating Lincoln Park neighborhood to the suburbs, trustees voted to remain and support the revitalization of the neighborhood.
"Taxpayer-funded Wintrust Arena falls short of attendance projections". Illinois Policy. June 23, 2018. Retrieved October 31, 2018.
Originally named St. Vincent's College, DePaul University was founded in 1898 by the Congregation of the Mission priests and brothers, known as the Vincentians.[12] Followers of 17th-century French priest Saint Vincent de Paul, they founded the university to serve Roman Catholic children of immigrants. Student enrollment grew from 70 in 1898 to 200 in 1903 in what is now the Lincoln Park neighborhood of Chicago.
^ Jaschik, Scott (October 19, 2016). "DePaul Bars 'Unborn Lives Matter' Posters". Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved December 2, 2018.
"Topic Galleries". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on July 31, 2009. Retrieved March 17, 2011.
In the Dershowitz–Finkelstein affair of 2007, Norman Finkelstein, an outspoken political science professor, was denied tenure. This followed a highly public and rancorous evaluation process in which an opponent of Finkelstein, Alan Dershowitz, took the highly unorthodox step of sending unsolicited letters and dossiers to Finkelstein's peers at DePaul urging them to deny him tenure. DePaul's president, the Rev. Dennis Holtschneider, denies that the outside pressure affected the university's position, saying "This attention was unwelcome and inappropriate and had no impact on either the process or the outcome of this case."[14]Finkelstein's supporters claim he was denied tenure due to his writings on the Holocaust and on the state of the Palestinians under Israeli occupation.[15][16][17] Detractors such as Dershowitz challenged Finkelstein's research methods and confrontational approach. On September 5, 2007, Finkelstein resigned after he and the university reached a settlement; they released a joint statement.[18]
"DePaul University". Newsroom.depaul.edu. September 5, 2007. Retrieved December 6, 2012.
The percentage of students who received an income-based federal Pell grant intended for low-income students.
^ "The College Sustainability Report Card". www.greenreportcard.org. Archived from the original on April 5, 2009. Retrieved April 3, 2019.
"Student Media | Student Resources | College of Communication | DePaul University, Chicago"
"2022 National University Rankings". Washington Monthly. Retrieved September 13, 2022.
"New music school named after outgoing president Fr. Holtschneider". DePauliaOnline.com. Retrieved May 23, 2017.
^ "What the Finkelstein Tenure Fight Tells Us About the State of Academia". Washington Report on Middle East Affairs. August 2007.
In September 2013, DePaul opened its new Theatre School building, which includes the Watts Theatre, a 250-seat thrust theater, as well as the Sondra & Denis Healy Theatre, a 100-seat flexible theater on the fourth floor. The building was designed by Pelli Clarke Pelli. In the fall of 2011, DePaul opened the four-story Arts & Letters Hall, which earned a Gold LEED-certification from the U.S. Green Building Council. The three-level Student Center, which opened in 2002, houses student services, dining facilities, the Saint Louise de Marillac Chapel, a cyber cafe, a Wintrust Bank, and offices for organizations including special-interest clubs.
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.1Early years																											1.2DePaul during the World Wars																											1.31940s–1970s																											1.4Controversies																											1.5Renovation and Expansion
^ Jones, Ashby (June 19, 2009). "What's Going on at DePaul Law? – Law Blog – WSJ". Blogs.wsj.com. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"Graduate Programs | Academics | College of Science and Health | DePaul University"
"Roberta R. Kwall | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago"
^ "Jeffrey M. Shaman | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago". law.depaul.edu.
"Undergraduate Majors | Academics | College of Science and Health | DePaul University"
^ "ZCommunications | DePaul Genuflects to Dershowitz by Howard Friel | ZNet Article". Zmag.org. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ "DePaul University, The Theatre School". Retrieved March 17, 2011.
DePaul's intercollegiate athletic teams, known as the DePaul Blue Demons, compete in the Big East Conference. DePaul's men's basketball team has made 18 NCAA tournament appearances and appeared in two Final Fours. DePaul's softball team in 2019 had their third consecutive Big East Tournament title and 21st NCAA Tournament appearance in program history under head coach Tracie Adix-Zins.[11]
Meglio, Francesca Di (March 22, 2010). "ROI: Business Schools with Bang for the Buck". BusinessWeek. Retrieved March 17, 2011.[permanent dead link]
"Best for double majors – Babson College (1) – FORTUNE Small Business". Money.cnn.com. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
Please remove or replace such wording and instead of making proclamations about a subject's importance, use facts and attribution to demonstrate that importance.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
The School for New Learning (SNL), created in 1972, was one of the first university-wide efforts in the United States to serve adult students through a separate college.[70] Students partner with faculty and professional mentors to create a unique curriculum for earning an undergraduate or graduate degree and can earn college credit for knowledge gained through life experiences by demonstrating competence in various areas. SNL was named one of six "Best Practice" institutions in North America by the Council for Adult and Experiential Learning, an international non-profit organization which advocates for adult learning. The Houston-based American Productivity and Quality Center has touted SNL for its individualized education of adult students. Associate Professor Miriam Ben-Yoseph was named the 2006 Illinois Professor of the Year by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE). The Chronic Illness Initiative in DePaul's School for New Learning was named one of the 30 "Smart Business Ideas" in higher education by University Business magazine in its December 2007 issue.[44] All Hallows College in Dublin, Ireland, modeled their ALBA program for adult learners after the School for New Learning.[71]
The DePaul College of Communication enrolls more than 1,100 students pursuing professional or traditional academic courses of study in journalism; public relations and advertising; media studies; radio, television, film, digital media; health, relational, group, and organizational communication; and culture and communication.[46] Coursework in the college's graduate and undergraduate degree programs is supplemented by a range of comprehensive pre-employment training opportunities, including Radio DePaul, The DePaulia,[47] 14East Magazine, Good Day DePaul, and a top-rated internship program.[48] In 2018, the college unveiled a new major in Sports Communication.
"Creative Colleges: A Guide for Student Actors, Artists, Dancers, Musicians, and Writers (9781932662054): Elaina Loveland: Books". Amazon. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
Other recent additions include the Sullivan Athletic Center containing McGrath-Phillips Arena, and the Ray Meyer Fitness and Recreation Center.[30] The Monsignor Andrew J. McGowan Environmental Science and Chemistry Building (McGowan South) is a four-story building completed in January 2009. It is connected to the William G. McGowan Biological and Environmental Sciences Center (McGowan North). The Lincoln Park campus also contains the remnants of the former McCormick Theological Seminary; these buildings (those remaining) are located east of the elevated tracks. This expansion was completed in the 1970s when McCormick moved its campus to the Hyde Park neighborhood. The McCormick Row Houses along the south side of Fullerton Avenue east of the elevated station, though now privately owned, were originally constructed for the Seminary. Also, until its destruction in 2006, the gothic architecture Hayes-Healy Athletic Center adjacent to the Fullerton 'L' station (similar in design to the still-present Cortelyou Commons next to Wish Field at Cacciatore Stadium) was also part of the Seminary campus. The gymnasium was demolished as part of the renovation/expansion of the Fullerton 'L' stop to accommodate higher ridership levels on the Brown Line, despite being on the National Register of Historic Places.
"Susan Bandes | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago"
"DePaul University Continuing and Professional Education". Learning.depaul.edu. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"Princeton Review 2021 Top Game Design Schools". The Hollywood Reporter. August 24, 2020. Retrieved July 12, 2021.
Roppelt, Marty (May 25, 2016). "Milo Yiannopoulos Event At DePaul University Broken Up By Black Lives Matter: Milo Wants Money Back". inquisitr.com. The Inquisitr News.
"DePaul Continuing and Professional Education (CPE)". grad.depaul.edu. Archived from the original on April 19, 2009.
"Brian F. Havel | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago". law.depaul.edu.
DePaul's College of Communication runs four student media organizations. Good Day DePaul is the student-run televisions program. The DePaulia is a traditional print newspaper that also posts its articles online. 14 East is an online multi-media magazine. Radio DePaul is a 24-hour web-based radio station.[78]
"Joshua D. Sarnoff | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago"
DePaul entered into a merger with Barat College in 2001, from which it withdrew in 2005 after continued low enrollment and rising maintenance costs made the campus nonviable. The former Barat College had its final graduation on June 11, 2005, and was closed as of June 30, 2005. It sold the grounds of the 147-year-old college to a condominium developer Barat Woods LLC, who pledged to maintain the historic Old Main building, yet demolished the Thabor Wing with its Italianate-style Sacred Heart Chapel. The remaining students, tenured and tenure-track faculty, and some staff were absorbed into DePaul's other campuses. Barat Woods LLC went into foreclosure and the property was auctioned and the lender, Harris Bank won. The former Barat College campus was donated by an anonymous donor to Woodlands Academy of the Sacred Heart.
"Bloomberg Businessweek Rankings". Archived from the original on August 23, 2013. Retrieved August 23, 2013.
"Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings 2022". The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education. Retrieved July 26, 2022.
"Commuter Services". DePaul University Division of Affairs. Retrieved May 23, 2017.
DePaul's two campuses are in the Lincoln Park neighborhood of Chicago and in the downtown Loop area.Owing largely to its compact urban form and its free public transportation passes for students, DePaul had the second lowest reported carbon footprint of any college and university submitting inventories under the College Sustainability Report Card program.[27][28]
"Dedication of the Richard H. Driehaus College of Business - 2012-13 - Speeches and Communications - DePaul University"
^ "DePaul University Continuing and Professional Education". Learning.depaul.edu. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
DePaul established the School of Music and the College of Commerce, the latter becoming one of the oldest business schools in the nation. In 1914, the college began offering courses in Chicago's Loop, the precursor of DePaul's second primary campus. In 1915, the Illinois College of Law completed its affiliation with the university and became the DePaul University College of Law. Enrollment totaled more than 1,100.
"Dedication of the Richard H. Driehaus College of Business - 2012-13 - Speeches and Communications - DePaul University". offices.depaul.edu. Archived from the original on June 18, 2017. Retrieved June 4, 2017.
"DePaul University". Newsroom.depaul.edu. June 10, 2007. Retrieved December 6, 2012.
^ "DePaul University: Chaddick Institute". chaddick.depaul.edu. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"Brian Leiter's Law School Reports: DePaul Provost Ousts Law Dean Without Consulting Faculty, Plans to Appoint an Outsider as Interim Dean"
DePaul's Lincoln Park Campus (main campus) is the older and larger of the university's two campuses. Located on 36 acres (14.57 ha) in Chicago's historic Lincoln Park neighborhood, this campus offers a traditional university environment. Approximately 2,400 students live on campus in DePaul's twelve residence halls. Resident Halls Located at the Lincoln Park Campus include Belden-Racine Hall, Ozanam Hall (formerly Clifton-Fullerton), Corcoran Hall, Munroe Hall, Seton Hall, and University Hall. DePaul's Lincoln Park Campus also offers other on-campus housing such as apartment-style living for upperclassmen.
^ "Brian F. Havel | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago". law.depaul.edu.
DePaul's School of Music has more than two dozen members of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and the Lyric Opera of Chicago as faculty.[67] The School of Music was named as one of the "Schools That Rock" in the 2005 Rolling Stone guidebook that evaluated collegiate music schools nationally. In 2007, Fortune Small Business recognized its performing arts management major as one of the 24 best cross-discipline programs for entrepreneurs.[68] In addition to degrees in jazz and concert performance, music composition, music education and jazz studies, DePaul has programs in sound recording technology and performing arts management. According to an article released on May 22, 2017, from DePaul's student newspaper, The DePaulia, the new music school building is to be named after former President Fr. Holtschneider, who stepped down as president in June 2017. In a statement, Bill Bennett, outgoing chair of the board of trustees, said the decision to rename the school to the Holtschneider Center for Music and Performance was to recognize Holtschneider's appreciation "for all things musical".[69]Notable prior faculty members included Sergei Tarnowsky, Samuel Lieberson, and Richard Czerwonky.
^ "History & Timeline | About | DePaul University, Chicago". www.depaul.edu.
DePaul's Loop campus is located in downtown Chicago's Loop along Jackson Boulevard from State Street to Michigan Avenue. It is close to the futures exchanges, financial district, and the Art Institute of Chicago. The DePaul Center (DPC), an 11-story building fully renovated in 1993 to include modern classrooms, high-tech student services, and a business library, is located in the building that formerly housed the A. M. Rothschild & Company Store and the Goldblatt's Department Store. It is home to the Driehaus College of Business.
Other consists of Multiracial Americans & those who prefer to not say.
^ "DePaul University". Newsroom.depaul.edu. September 5, 2007. Retrieved December 6, 2012.
^ "B-schools with entrepreneurial flair – Babson College (1) – FORTUNE Small Business". Money.cnn.com. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ "New music school named after outgoing president Fr. Holtschneider". DePauliaOnline.com. Retrieved May 23, 2017.
"Brian F. Havel | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago"
^ Ecker, Danny (September 23, 2013). "McPier approves new DePaul arena design". Crain's. Retrieved September 4, 2014.
^ DePaul University. "Softball". DePaul Blue Demon. Retrieved October 27, 2020.
^ "2022 National University Rankings". Washington Monthly. Retrieved September 13, 2022.
8% of full-time enrolled DePaul undergrads are in a fraternity or sorority.
^ [3] Archived February 16, 2008, at the Wayback Machine
DePaul University has ten colleges and schools. It operates on a quarter system. The exception is the College of Law which is on a semester system.[36]
"Forbes America's Top Colleges List 2022". Forbes. Retrieved September 13, 2022.
^ "GDUSA 2021 Top Graphic Design Schools". GDUSA. April 2, 2021. Retrieved July 12, 2021.
^ Dodge, John (May 25, 2016). "DePaul President Apologizes After Conservative Forum Disrupted By Protesters". chicago.cbslocal.com. CBS Interactive. Archived from the original on May 26, 2016.
^ "DePaul University School for New Learning". Snl.depaul.edu. Archived from the original on November 22, 2012. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ "Princeton Review 2021 Top Game Design Schools". Princeton Review. Retrieved July 12, 2021.
"History & Timeline | About | DePaul University, Chicago". www.depaul.edu.
"The College Sustainability Report Card". www.greenreportcard.org. Archived from the original on April 5, 2009. Retrieved April 3, 2019.
^ "2022-23 Best Global Universities Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved February 25, 2023.
"DePaul University School for New Learning". Snl.depaul.edu. Archived from the original on November 22, 2012. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"Student Media | Student Resources | College of Communication | DePaul University, Chicago". communication.depaul.edu. Retrieved October 16, 2019.
4Student life											Toggle Student life subsection																					4.1Student media																											4.2Athletics																											4.3Greek life																								4.3.1Interfraternity Council																											4.3.2Greek Council																											4.3.3Panhellenic Council
There are no traditional fraternity or sorority houses at DePaul.
Although finances were rocky, the university continued to grow and build in the 1920s. In 1926, the university was first accredited by the North Central Association of Colleges and Universities. When DePaul's first sports teams were formed in the early 1900s, the monogram "D" was selected for the uniforms. From this originated the sports_nickname "D-men" which evolved into "Demons". The color blue, which signifies loyalty and was chosen in 1901 by a vote of the student body, was added to the name to create the "Blue Demons".
"Chicago investment manager donating $30 million to DePaul University's business school"
^ "DePaul Art Museum". DePaul University. Retrieved December 10, 2015.
"Internships | DePaul University College of Communication". communication.depaul.edu. Retrieved January 4, 2016.
^ "2022-2023 Best National Universities". U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved September 13, 2022.
The Lincoln Park Campus is home to the college of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences, The Theatre School, the School of Music, the College of Education, the College of Science and Health, the Schmitt Academic Center, Wish Field, and the John T. Richardson Library. Opened in 1992, the library features study and small-group spaces, an automated reference center, a technological help center, and a high-tech Resource Center for Career Development. The DePaul Art Museum, founded in 2011, is housed in a 15,000-square-foot building and features a collection of over 3000 objects, including works by Chicago and regional artists, North American and Latin American photography, WPA-era prints, contemporary and traditional West African objects, and Eastern European graphic arts.[29] The museum is free to visit and open to the public.
^ "Top 50 Animation Schools and Colleges in the U.S. – 2021 College Rankings". January 11, 2021.
^ "Susan Bandes | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago". law.depaul.edu.
"25 top programs for undergrads – Babson College (1) – FORTUNE Small Business"
^ "Brian Leiter's Law School Reports: DePaul Provost Ousts Law Dean Without Consulting Faculty, Plans to Appoint an Outsider as Interim Dean". Leiterlawschool.typepad.com. June 19, 2009. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"Undergraduate Majors | Academics | College of Science and Health | DePaul University". Archived from the original on May 8, 2016. Retrieved May 15, 2016.
1994 enrollment was 16,700. Under the next six-year strategic plan, the university expanded enrollment to 23,000 students, reclaiming its status as the nation's largest Catholic university while maintaining admission standards, increasing diversity (currently, one-third of the student population is of color), and maintaining access to first-generation college students and those from low-income circumstances (about one-fourth of incoming freshmen qualify for Pell grants for low-income families). Additional new facilities included the William G. McGowan Biological and Environmental Sciences Center (McGowan North) in 1999, the Ray Meyer Fitness and Recreation Center in 1999, the Student Center in 2001 and the Sullivan Athletic Center in 2000, and the Monsignor Andrew J. McGowan Environmental Science and Chemistry Building (McGowan South) in 2009.
^ a b "DePaul University". Newsroom.depaul.edu. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"Enrollment Facts". Archived from the original on February 7, 2016. Retrieved January 5, 2015.
"Milo Yiannopoulos Event At DePaul University Broken Up By Black Lives Matter: Milo Wants Money Back"
"GDUSA 2021 Top Graphic Design Schools". GDUSA. April 2, 2021. Retrieved July 12, 2021.
DePaul's two campuses are located in Lincoln Park and the Loop. The Lincoln Park campus is home to the Colleges of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences, Science and Health, and Education. It also houses the School of Music, the Theater School, and the John T. Richardson Library. The Loop campus houses the College of Communication, Computing and Digital Media, and the College of Law, as well as the School of Public Service and the School for New Learning. It is also home to the Kellstadt Graduate School of Business, which is part of the nationally ranked Driehaus College of Business, the tenth oldest business school in the nation.[7] The Loop campus also houses the Loop Library, the Rinn Law Library, and the Barnes and Noble-based Student Center. DePaul is classified among "R2: Doctoral Universities – High research activity".[8]
"B-schools with entrepreneurial flair – Babson College (1) – FORTUNE Small Business"
Caron, Paul (June 19, 2009). "TaxProf Blog: DePaul Fires Dean in Dispute Over Tuition to be Retained by Law School". Taxprof.typepad.com. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ "DePaul University: College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences". las.depaul.edu. Archived from the original on July 9, 2013. Retrieved August 8, 2013.
In 2005, the university limited fliers protesting a visit of Ward Churchill, which included the term "hatemonger", declaring them "propaganda".[13] A bomb threat prompted the university to limit attendance at the event.
^ "Commuter Services". DePaul University Division of Affairs. Retrieved May 23, 2017.
The percentage of students who are a part of the American middle class at the bare minimum.
"DePaul University: Censorship of Student Group Protesting Ward Churchill". FIRE. Retrieved January 18, 2020.
"ZCommunications | DePaul Genuflects to Dershowitz by Howard Friel | ZNet Article". Zmag.org. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"ZCommunications | DePaul Genuflects to Dershowitz by Howard Friel | ZNet Article"
^ Subak, Susan (2018). The Five-Ton Life. University of Nebraska Press. pp. 154–55.
^ Meglio, Francesca Di (March 22, 2010). "ROI: Business Schools with Bang for the Buck". BusinessWeek. Retrieved March 17, 2011.[permanent dead link]
^ "DePaul University". Newsroom.depaul.edu. June 10, 2007. Retrieved December 6, 2012.
"TaxProf Blog: DePaul Fires Dean in Dispute Over Tuition to be Retained by Law School"
DePaul's Theatre School was founded as the Goodman School of Drama in 1925 and is the Midwest's oldest theater training conservatory.[72] In 2013, it moved into a custom-designed five-story building that includes two theater spaces-—the 250-seat thrust Watts Theatre and the 100-seat black box Sondra & Denis Healy Theatre-—in addition to classrooms, acting labs, scene shop, costume shop, makeup, paint, lighting laboratories, and new media workshops. The building, designed by Pelli Clarke Pelli, has many transparent walls, allowing passersby to see faculty and students at work. In 2006, the school's array of theatrical productions, playwrighting festivals, guest-lecture series, and scholarship availability are featured in the book Creative Colleges,[73] written by Elaina Loveland. In January 2003, The Education Life section of The New York Times listed DePaul's Theatre School among nine schools most mentioned by casting directors and theatrical agents for program quality. It was the first in the US to offer an undergraduate degree in Dramaturgy and Dramatic Criticism. As part of a "learning by doing" philosophy, the school presents more than 40 productions each season in a variety of venues. Ten productions are offered to the public each season as part of The Theatre School Showcase, Chicago Playworks (the city's oldest continuously operating children's theater), New Directors Series, or New Playwrights Series. Theatre students are involved in all aspects of the productions.
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
The College of Law is based in the Lewis Center and O'Malley Place at the southwest corner of Wabash and Jackson. Kitty-corner across the street is the College of Computing and Digital Media. In 2008, DePaul purchased the 18-story 14 East Jackson Boulevard Building at State and Jackson, formerly the Lytton Building, across the street from the DePaul Center. The College of Communication, the School for New Learning, and the School of Public Service were the first academic tenants of 14 East Jackson Boulevard, now the Richard M. and Maggie C. Daley Building.
^ "DePaul University School of Music". Retrieved March 17, 2011.
In 2012, a group of trustees and administrators of DePaul University was asked by the Archdiocese of Chicago and the priests and brothers of the Congregation of the Resurrection to assist Gordon Tech High School. As the academic partnership with DePaul University progressed, the school became DePaul College Prep in 2014.
In 1954, DePaul adopted its current armorial seal with coat of arms and motto: "Viam sapientiae monstrabo tibi" ("I will show you the way of wisdom", Proverbs, IV, 11). In 1955, the Frank J. Lewis Foundation donated the 18-story Kimball Building, rechristened the Lewis Center, at 25 East Jackson Boulevard, to the university. The building, still used today, was the hub of the Loop campus until 1993 when the DePaul Center opened at 1 East Jackson Boulevard (at State Street).
In 2017 the DePaul Men's Track and Field team won the university's first male sports Big East championships, in the sport of Indoor and Outdoor track and field.
^ "Student Media | Student Resources | College of Communication | DePaul University, Chicago". communication.depaul.edu. Retrieved October 16, 2019.
Dodge, John (May 25, 2016). "DePaul President Apologizes After Conservative Forum Disrupted By Protesters". chicago.cbslocal.com. CBS Interactive. Archived from the original on May 26, 2016.
^ reporter, Becky Yerak, Chicago Tribune. "Chicago investment manager donating $30 million to DePaul University's business school". chicagotribune.com.
^ "Joshua D. Sarnoff | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago". law.depaul.edu.
^ "Enrollment Facts". Archived from the original on February 7, 2016. Retrieved January 5, 2015.
^ "Forbes America's Top Colleges List 2022". Forbes. Retrieved September 13, 2022.
^ Other consists of Multiracial Americans & those who prefer to not say.
DePaul's College of Commerce opened on January 11, 1913.[37] It was officially renamed the Driehaus College of Business on September 19, 2012,[38] seven months after receiving from alumnus Richard H. Driehaus a $30 million gift which was the largest in the university's history.[39] The college is located downtown in the Chicago Loop at 1 East Jackson Boulevard and is one of the ten oldest business schools in the US.[40] It includes the Kellstadt Graduate School of Business. The full-time faculty of the college consists of approximately 130 members. In 2009, Princeton Review ranked the College of Commerce's entrepreneurship program #3 (out of 700 programs) in the U.S. among graduate programs and #8 among undergraduate programs.[41] Entrepreneur magazine has consistently ranked DePaul's entrepreneurship program one of the best in the US. In 2007, Fortune Small Business magazine named DePaul's undergraduate program one of the 25 best in the nation for entrepreneurs[42] and its graduate program one of the top 10 MBA programs with an entrepreneurial flair.[43] DePaul's part-time MBA program at the Kellstadt Graduate School of Business has been ranked in the top-10 nationally 14 times by U.S. News & World Report.[44] Renowned Professors include behavioral finance pioneer Werner DeBondt, the Richard H. Driehaus Professor of Behavioral Finance; James Shilling, the Michael J. Horne Professor of Real Estate; and Harold P. Welsch, the Coleman Professor of Entrepreneurship. In 2010, the undergraduate program at DePaul University's College of Business was named one of BusinessWeek's best 'Return On Investments' for Private Schools. The undergrad program was ranked 40th overall, making it the second highest-ranked business school in Illinois (after UIUC's College of Business).[45]
"Joshua D. Sarnoff | Faculty A-Z | Faculty & Staff | College of Law | DePaul University, Chicago". law.depaul.edu.
^ "DePaul University: Censorship of Student Group Protesting Ward Churchill". FIRE. Retrieved January 18, 2020.
^ "DePaul University College of Commerce". Retrieved March 17, 2011.
Subak, Susan (2018). The Five-Ton Life. University of Nebraska Press. pp. 154–55.
Following renovations in the 1980s and the expansion of academic programs to promote research and social engagement, the university launched a six-year strategic plan in 1989. The plan included raising the national profile, expanding enrollment from 13,500 to 18,500, and completing an extensive building campaign at the Loop and Lincoln Park campuses. Major construction included the renovation of the DePaul Center in 1993 and the acquisition of the Blackstone Theatre, rechristened the Merle Reskin, in 1992. At Lincoln Park, projects included the John T. Richardson Library, completed in 1992, several new residence halls, and the quadrangle. It was named after the university's ninth president John T. Richardson.
The school's men's basketball program gained prominence under Ray Meyer, who led the team to the NCAA Division I basketball Final Four in the 1978–1979 season.DePaul also made it to the Final Four in 1943. The school's only national championship came in 1945 after winning the National Invitation Tournament (NIT). DePaul has been to the NCAA tournament 22 times (two Final Four appearances) and the NIT tournament 16 times. The team played at the Allstate Arena from 1980 until 2017. Beginning in the 2017–2018 season, the team has played at Wintrust Arena.[79]
DePaul competes in NCAA Division I and is a member of the Big East Conference. The school's athletic team's sports nickname is the Blue Demons.
^ "College Scorecard: DePaul University". United States Department of Education. Retrieved May 8, 2022.
"Best for double majors – Babson College (1) – FORTUNE Small Business"
^ Caron, Paul (June 19, 2009). "TaxProf Blog: DePaul Fires Dean in Dispute Over Tuition to be Retained by Law School". Taxprof.typepad.com. Retrieved November 19, 2012.
^ Roppelt, Marty (May 25, 2016). "Milo Yiannopoulos Event At DePaul University Broken Up By Black Lives Matter: Milo Wants Money Back". inquisitr.com. The Inquisitr News.
Galuppo, Mia (August 13, 2021). "2021's Top 25 American Film Schools, Ranked". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved October 28, 2021.
^ [2] Archived October 26, 2007, at the Wayback Machine
"Association for Psychological Science: APS Fellows". www.psychologicalscience.org. Archived from the original on August 13, 2020. Retrieved February 17, 2019.
^ "DePaul operates on a quarter system, with three quarters (autumn, winter, spring) making up the formal academic year" (PDF). Retrieved November 19, 2012.
"Princeton Review 2021 Top Game Design Schools". Princeton Review. Retrieved July 12, 2021.
"DePaul University: College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences". las.depaul.edu. Archived from the original on July 9, 2013. Retrieved August 8, 2013.
The DePaul University College of Computing and Digital Media (CDM), located in the Loop, is organized into three schools: the School of Cinematic Arts, which is home to the animation and cinema programs; the School of Computing, which houses programs in computer and information sciences; and the School of Design, which houses programs in game design, interactive and social media, and digital communication and media arts. CDM has nationally ranked programs in film,[49] animation,[50] gaming,[51] and graphic design.[52] They are a designated National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance/Cybersecurity for academic years 2014-2021 by the United States Department of Homeland Security and National Security Agency. In The Hollywood Reporter's 2021 Top 25 American Film Schools[53] Ranking, DePaul's School of Cinematic Arts was listed as the 16th, making it 8 ranks up than the previous year. Nearly 5,000 students are currently enrolled across CDM's graduate and undergraduate programs.
