device ID (device identification)										A device ID (device identification) is an anonymous string of numbers and letters that uniquely identifies a mobile device such ...
A network operating system (NOS) is a computer operating system (OS) that's designed primarily to support workstations, PCs and, ...
transaction										In computing, a transaction is a set of related tasks treated as a single action.
WAN (wide area network)										A wide area network (WAN) is a geographically distributed private telecommunications network that interconnects multiple local ...
A passive candidate (passive job candidate) is anyone in the workforce who is not actively looking for a job.
Quantum supremacy is the experimental demonstration of a quantum computer's dominance and advantage over classical computers by ...
antivirus software (antivirus program)										Antivirus software (antivirus program) is a security program designed to prevent, detect, search and remove viruses and other ...
Cloud Security Alliance (CSA)										The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) is a nonprofit organization that promotes research into best practices for securing cloud ...
Quick Study						Resources 																											Business strategies					Career resources					Emerging tech					Tech explainers
Antivirus software (antivirus program) is a security program designed to prevent, detect, search and remove viruses and other ...
quantum supremacy										Quantum supremacy is the experimental demonstration of a quantum computer's dominance and advantage over classical computers by ...
lean management										Lean management is an approach to managing an organization that supports the concept of continuous improvement, a long-term ...
The page you were trying to reach at this address doesn't seem to exist. This is usually the result of a bad or outdated link. We apologize for any inconvenience.
A wide area network (WAN) is a geographically distributed private telecommunications network that interconnects multiple local ...
SD-branch is a single, automated, centrally managed software-centric platform that replaces or supplements an existing branch ...
Lean management is an approach to managing an organization that supports the concept of continuous improvement, a long-term ...
In computing, a transaction is a set of related tasks treated as a single action.
If this is your first time visiting TechTarget, welcome! Sorry for the circumstances under which we're meeting. Here's where you can go from here:
SD-branch										SD-branch is a single, automated, centrally managed software-centric platform that replaces or supplements an existing branch ...
talent pool										A talent pool is a database of job candidates who have the potential to meet an organization's immediate and long-term needs.
Customer success is a strategy to ensure a company's products are meeting the needs of the customer.
A device ID (device identification) is an anonymous string of numbers and letters that uniquely identifies a mobile device such ...
A talent pool is a database of job candidates who have the potential to meet an organization's immediate and long-term needs.
Browse Definitions					By Topic																																									Please select a category																									Business software																		Cloud computing																		Computer science																		Data analytics and AI																		Data centers																		IT management																		Networking																		Security																		Software development																																																			Business software															View All																															ERP																	HR management																	Marketing and CX																	Microsoft																	Software applications																																																			Cloud computing															View All																															Internet applications																	Internet of Things																	Web services																																																			Computer science															View All																															Electronics																	Internet technologies																	IT standards and organizations																	Microprocessors																	Robotics																																																			Data analytics and AI															View All																															Algorithms																	Artificial intelligence																	Data and data management																	Database management																																																			Data centers															View All																															Data backup and disaster recovery																	Data center management																	Linux																	Operating systems																	Storage Admin																	Storage and Data Mgmt																	Virtualization																																																			IT management															View All																															Certifications																	IT career paths																	IT Operations																	Personal computing																	Project management																	Technical support																																																			Networking															View All																															High-speed networks																	Network Admin																	Network hardware																	Networking and communications																	Wireless and mobile																																																			Security															View All																															Authentication and access control																	Compliance, risk and governance																	Network security																	Security Admin																	Threat management																																																			Software development															View All																															Agile software development																	AppDev																	DevOps																	Programming
diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI)										Diversity, equity and inclusion is a term used to describe policies and programs that promote the representation and ...
Diversity, equity and inclusion is a term used to describe policies and programs that promote the representation and ...
network operating system (NOS)										A network operating system (NOS) is a computer operating system (OS) that's designed primarily to support workstations, PCs and, ...
The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) is a nonprofit organization that promotes research into best practices for securing cloud ...
passive candidate										A passive candidate (passive job candidate) is anyone in the workforce who is not actively looking for a job.
product-qualified lead (PQL)										A product-qualified lead (PQL) is an individual or business that experienced value from using a product as a result of a free ...
A product-qualified lead (PQL) is an individual or business that experienced value from using a product as a result of a free ...
customer success										Customer success is a strategy to ensure a company's products are meeting the needs of the customer.

