Socialist Worker, 2000-03-25 ("Labour fiddles while Rover burns" Archived 2005-05-27 at the Wayback Machine)
Gordon Brown: Prime Ministerl by Tom Bower, Harper Perennial (2007)
^ Socialist Worker, 2000-03-25 ("Labour fiddles while Rover burns" Archived 2005-05-27 at the Wayback Machine)
This page was last edited on 6 July 2021, at 03:29 (UTC).
^ "Goebbels New Year Address for 1940", which in turn cites .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Die Zeit ohne Beispiel (1941). Jahreswechsel 1939/40. Sylvesteransprache an das deutsche Volk. Munich: Zentralverlag der NSDAP. pages 229-239.
"Turning to tax allowances, the married couples' allowance has been abolished, which is a strange move for a government who profess to support the family. They have abolished the MIRAS tax relief which has hit home-buyers. The change to the allowances for couples with children--the new children's tax credit--which is tapered away for higher rate taxpayers, will affect hardworking families on middle incomes."[3]
Independent on Sunday, 2005-04-18, (letter by J Ambers Archived 2005-06-22 at the Wayback Machine)
"They hate our people because it is decent, brave, industrious, hardworking and intelligent. They hate our views, our social policies, and our accomplishments. They hate us as a Reich and as a community. They have forced us into a struggle for life and death. We will defend ourselves accordingly. All is clear between us and our enemies." — Joseph Goebbels' address to Germany, 1939-12-31 [13]
the title of a monthly half-hour television series Archived 2005-04-05 at the Wayback Machine produced by the Maryland Department of Human Resources and Maryland Public Television
In satire: 'I got to do some great Soundbites. My favourites were: "hard working families", "providing opportunity and security", "breaking down barriers" and "on the firm foundations we have laid down since 1997 our programme will embed a new progressive consensus in our country". Who couldn't help but be stirred by the Passion of such sentiments?'[11]
^ Frank Luntz Republican Playbook at PoliticalStrategy. ORG ("The Budget: Ending Wasteful Washington Spending")
^ Gordon Brown: Prime Ministerl by Tom Bower, Harper Perennial (2007)
"She [Lady Mallalieu] said the protesters wanted to show it was ‘hardworking families’ which would be hit by a hunting ban."[2]
"Meanwhile, the aspirations of ordinary, hardworking families will be the focus of attention for Tories in Bournemouth this week, their last conference before the General Election."[8]
Gordon Brown expressed gratitude to Bob Shrum for suggesting the phrase between 1994 and 1997.[1]
"It is equally certain that there will be something for hard-working families after Tony Blair and the Chancellor have made several public announcements about their commitment on this subject."[9]
"A Conservative government will give hope to hardworking families – decent people who respect others, who take responsibility for their children and who contribute to their local communities."[5]
In a letter to the editor: 'Sir: How right Andrew Schofield is (letter, 14 April) about the mantra "hard-working families". Having previously thought my working life fairly productive, I now discover that my single status proves me to have spent 25 years in total indolence. In fact, given that I've always worked in the public service and so can be dispensed with instantly with only benefit to the economy, I must always have been a freeloader of epic proportions. Given this, it would be hardly surprising if I could not be bothered to drag myself from my pit of sybaritic excess to a polling station.'[12]
Daily Telegraph, 2005-03-14 ("At a glance guide to the most likely changes")
"The Curious Campaign Diary of Tony Blair: Gosh! What a spacematic week"
The phrase "hardworking families" or "working families" is an example of a glittering generality in contemporary political discourse. It isused in the politics of the United Kingdom and of the United States, and was heavily used by the political parties in the campaign of the 2005 United Kingdom general election and the 2007 Australian federal election where the Rudd Labor Party used the term extensively.
"Then, it was mortgage rates at 15 per cent for a whole year with 1.5 million households suffering negative equity and over 250,000 families losing their homes—now, hardworking families are enjoying the lowest mortgage rates for 40 years. Then, it was 400,000 more on hospital waiting lists—now, it is almost 300,000 off. Then, it was crime doubled—now, it’s crime down by over a quarter."[6]
Working family, a term used during the lead-up to the Australian federal election, 2007
Alan Milburn in Agenda: magazine of the Association of Labour Councillors, winter 2004/5 ("Britain is Working" Archived 2006-02-10 at the Wayback Machine)
"Goebbels New Year Address for 1940", which in turn cites .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Die Zeit ohne Beispiel (1941). Jahreswechsel 1939/40. Sylvesteransprache an das deutsche Volk. Munich: Zentralverlag der NSDAP. pages 229-239.
^ Independent on Sunday, 2005-04-18, (letter by J Ambers Archived 2005-06-22 at the Wayback Machine)
Sometimes the use of the phrase by politicians is echoed in media reports on political events, or indeed the news medium itself employs the phrase as part of its own editorializing, in the expectation that its readers will infer that it is referring to them:
Some examples of politicians using (or being reported as using) the phrase:
^ Michael Howard speaking in Telford on 2005-04-10 ("It's time to set an annual limit to immigration" Archived 2007-05-03 at the Wayback Machine)
^ Daily Telegraph, 2005-03-14 ("At a glance guide to the most likely changes")
Independent on Sunday, 2005-04-17, ("The Curious Campaign Diary of Tony Blair: Gosh! What a spacematic week" Archived 2005-04-20 at the Wayback Machine)
^ Independent on Sunday, 2005-04-17, ("The Curious Campaign Diary of Tony Blair: Gosh! What a spacematic week" Archived 2005-04-20 at the Wayback Machine)
^ Alan Milburn in Agenda: magazine of the Association of Labour Councillors, winter 2004/5 ("Britain is Working" Archived 2006-02-10 at the Wayback Machine)
Frank Luntz Republican Playbook at PoliticalStrategy. ORG ("The Budget: Ending Wasteful Washington Spending")
^ the title of a monthly half-hour television series Archived 2005-04-05 at the Wayback Machine produced by the Maryland Department of Human Resources and Maryland Public Television
Michael Howard speaking in Telford on 2005-04-10 ("It's time to set an annual limit to immigration" Archived 2007-05-03 at the Wayback Machine)
'Chancellor Gordon Brown says that Tuesday's budget was designed to reward "hardworking families". What a sickening insult to the workers at Longbridge and the dependent factories who face devastation. ... These "hardworking families" now face the dole.'[10]
More equitable boundaries were subsequently put in place following the 1968 election, ending the Playmander, and again after the 1975 and 1989 elections.
While Labor won 53.2 percent of the two-party vote at that election, it lost two seats, resulting in a hung parliament. After much negotiation, independent Tom Stott threw his support to the LCL, thus making LCL leader Steele Hall the new Premier, despite the LCL winning only 46.8 percent of the two-party vote. Further to this, the LCL had won only three metropolitan seats in 1965 and 1968: Burnside, Mitcham and Torrens.
After 16 years in office–a record for a Labor government in the state–Labor was defeated at the 2018 election by the Liberals under Steven Marshall. Even then, the Liberals suffered a state-wide swing against them and were only able to win 25 seats–as in 1979, a bare majority of two. They did, however, manage to win 16 of the 33 metropolitan seats, their best showing in Adelaide since the 1993 landslide–thus proving that it is very difficult to win even a minority government without a strong showing in Adelaide.
^ Labor and Liberal Parties, SA, Dean Jaensch, "A 2:1 ratio of enrolments in favour of the rural areas was in force from 1936."
Additionally, there was also a change from multi-member seats to single-member seats for the first time in South Australia's history, while the number of MPs in the lower house was reduced from 46 to 39.
Enlarged from 39 to 47 prior to the 1970 election, the House was also redistributed to comprise 28 metropolitan seats and 19 rural seats, an increase of 15 metropolitan seats, more than double. At the 1965 election Labor held eleven of 26 rural seats, by the 1977 election Labor held just two of 14 rural seats. Since the 1985 election there have been 34 metropolitan seats and 13 rural seats. On the below boundaries, with voting patterns from either the Labor landslide at the 2006 election, or the more balanced result at the 2014 election, Labor would regardless hold about just ten of 39 seats.
"Draft Redistribution Report". Electoral Commission of South Australia. 12 August 2011. Archived from the original on 3 November 2012. Retrieved 9 June 2012.
Fair electoral boundaries an "impossible challenge": University of Adelaide, 21 March 2014
Labor's statewide two-party-preferred vote at the 1965 election remained unchanged at 54.3 percent, barely winning for the first and only time during the 32-year Playmander, with just a two-seat majority government. Labor won the seats of Glenelg and Barossa at the 1965 election, after winning the seats of Chaffey and Unley at the 1962 election. At the 1968 election the LCL won the seats of Murray and Chaffey and formed a one-seat minority government. If just 21 LCL votes were Labor votes in Murray in 1968, Labor would have retained its majority.
This page was last edited on 24 February 2023, at 07:10 (UTC).
In 1973, Labor retained office with 54.5 percent of the two-party vote, and the LCL became the South Australian division of the Liberal Party of Australia in 1974.Labor retained power in 1975 with a majority of seats but lost the two-party vote on 49.2 percent.Dunstan then instituted "one vote one value" electoral reform, which meant that all seats had to contain approximately the same number of enrolled voters; and created an independent body, the South Australian Electoral Districts Boundaries Commission, to draw the electoral boundaries.[3]
"Liberal leader Steven Marshall sworn in as new South Australian Premier". ABC News. 19 March 2018. Retrieved 22 March 2018.
Metropolitan 2PP correctly calculated by adding raw metro 2PP vote numbers from the 34 metro seats, both Labor and Liberal, then dividing Labor's raw metro 2PP vote from the total, which revealed a Labor metropolitan 2PP of 51.54%. Obtained raw metro 2PP vote numbers from ECSA 2014 election statistics Archived 7 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine, ECSA 2014 Heysen election Archived 11 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine and ABC 2014 Fisher by-election.
^ State Electoral Office. "SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REFERENDA". Electoral Commission of South Australia. Archived (PDF) from the original on 31 October 2008. Retrieved 9 July 2020.
The Playmander was a gerrymandering system, a pro-rural electoral malapportionment in the Australian state of South Australia, which was introduced by the incumbent Liberal and Country League (LCL) government in 1936, and remained in place for 32 years until 1968.[1]
The LCL was formed in 1932, being rebranded as the Liberal Party in 1974, while the Playmander began in 1936 and was abolished in 1968. Two-party-preferred (2PP) figures are not available prior to 1944.
With the merger of the Liberal Federation and the Country Party in 1932 to form the Liberal and Country League, the Country Party had demanded key concessions as part of the deal, particularly to the electoral system. The already entrenched rural overweighting was increased to the constitutional 2:1 ratio, the number of MPs was reduced to 39, and the multi-member seats were abandoned in favour of single-member seats, with 13 in Adelaide and 26 in rural South Australia. The changes were intended to effectively lock Labor out of power, and there was much uproar when it was brought in: Labor MP Tom Howard declared in Parliament that "the working class will not lay down like tame dogs under a system that will not give them proper representation".
^ Liberals blocked by unfair boundaries, says Downer: The Australian 17 March 2014
Dunstan, Don (1976). "John Curtin Memorial Lecture: Electoral reform in South Australia" (PDF).
The term "Playmander" was adopted by the Adelaide press, including the articulate young Labor member Don Dunstan.Dunstan, more than anyone else, was the driving force behind Labor both overcoming the Playmander and extensive changes being made to the electoral system; the latter, however, would not be implemented by Dunstan.
Eight new seats were introduced in 1970, and seats were required to be proportionate from 1975. A unique fairness clause directs the Electoral Commission of South Australia to redraw boundaries after each election, with the objective being that the party which receives over 50 percent of the statewide two-party vote at the forthcoming election should win the two-party vote in a majority of seats; while this clause was removed from the State constitution in 2017, the Commission still retains it when drawing electoral maps.
Cockburn, Stewart (1991). Playford: Benevolent Despot. Griffin Press Limited. ISBN 0-9594164-4-7.
In 2014, referring to the 1989 fairness legislation, Weatherill responded to Liberal complaints about the fairness clause by saying, "Complaining about the rules when you designed the rules I think sits ill on the mouth of the Liberal Party." Electoral Commissioner Kay Mousley said it was an "impossible" task for the Boundaries Commission to achieve the legislated requirement, stating "It is a constitutional requirement, and until the constitution gets changed, I must say I find it a very inexact science".[8] Additionally, she had previously stated in 2010, "Had the Liberal Party achieved a uniform swing it would have formed Government. The Commission has no control over, and can accept no responsibility for, the quality of the candidates, policies and campaigns."[9] University of Adelaide Professor of Politics Clem Macintyre stated after the 2014 election that fair electoral boundaries are an "impossible challenge".[10]
Liberals blocked by unfair boundaries, says Downer: The Australian 17 March 2014
Results of the South Australian state election, 1965 (House of Assembly)
Since the end of the Playmander, South Australian politics have been characterised by a concentration of seats in the Adelaide metropolitan area, a manifestation of South Australia's status as the nation's most centralised state.Successive redistributions have resulted in Adelaide and its suburbs containing close to three-quarters of the seats (34 out of 47 in 2017).This makes it difficult to form even a minority government without gaining significant ground in Adelaide.Labor's success in South Australia over the last four decades has been built on a strong base in Adelaide; under normal conditions Labor wins the most seats in the capital.Since the 1975 redistribution, most of the Liberal margin has been locked into ultra-safe rural seats.This remained the case even after the "fairness clause" amendment.
In 1979, for instance, the Liberals won 55 percent of the two-party vote–the first time in 20 years that the non-Labor side in South Australia had won a majority of the two-party vote while also winning the most seats. However, they only won 25 seats—a bare majority of two—mainly due to winning only 13 seats in Adelaide. That narrow majority was reduced even further to 24 seats after the Liberal victory in Dunstan's old seat was overturned, and Labor won the ensuing by-election. Thus, despite having won by a margin large enough for a landslide victory in the rest of Australia, the Liberals only governed on a knife-edge.
During the Playmander's existence, Labor managed to win enough parliamentary seats to form government only once, in an against the odds win in 1965 that ousted its namesake, Sir Thomas Playford, as Premier after over 26 years in office. Labor also won comprehensive majorities of the statewide two-party vote whilst failing to form government in 1944, 1953, 1962 and 1968, also winning a majority of the primary vote in 1953, 1962 and 1968.
At the election, Labor won 54.3 percent of the two-party vote, even higher than in 1944 and 1953, but it only managed a two-seat swing, one short of what was required to make Walsh Premier: the balance of power rested with two independents, who supported Playford, thus allowing him to continue in office with a bare one-seat majority. This illustrated just how distorted the Playmander had become: the LCL was in a position to govern despite winning only 45.7 percent of the two-party vote.
The 2010 and 2014 elections illustrated how difficult it is to form government in South Australia without a strong showing in Adelaide. In 2010, the Liberals picked up a swing of 8.4 percent, more than the uniform 6.9 percent swing that the Boundaries Commission envisaged as being enough for a Liberal win. However, most of that swing came in seats that would have stayed in Labor hands in any event; while 22 seats saw double-digit swings, Labor sat on insurmountably safe margins in 16 of them.[6] Additionally, while the Liberals took three Adelaide-area seats off Labor, they only won six additional seats in the capital. While six of the Liberals' 13 safe two-party seats were in Adelaide, all but one of their four marginal seats were urban. As a result, while the Liberals won 51.6 percent of the two-party vote, Labor was still able to eke out a two-seat majority.
However, Adelaide elected a majority of the Parliament for the first time in the State's history: given Labor's dominance in Adelaide since the 1930s, the conventional wisdom was that Hall knew that he was effectively conceding defeat to Dunstan at the next election. When a snap election was called in 1970, Labor gained power as expected, with 53.3 percent of the two-party vote, and also won the eight newly created seats.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Gerrymander in SA". The Canberra Times. 31 August 1976. p. 2. Retrieved 2 November 2014 – via National Library of Australia.
Bjelkemander, a similar malapportionment in Queensland, named after Joh Bjelke-Petersen.
The balance of power rested with the two crossbench independents, Bob Such and Geoff Brock. Such's seat of Fisher and Brock's seat of Frome would have had decisive Liberal majorities in "traditional" two-party matchups in 2014.Counting the seats won by the independents, 24 seats returned Liberal two-party votes and 23 returned Labor two-party votes, so the requirements of the "fairness clause" were met. Such did not indicate who he would support in a minority government before he went on two months' medical leave for a brain tumour which he would die from in the ensuing months. Brock subsequently supported Labor., allowing Labor to form government by one seat. It is the second time that Labor has won four consecutive state elections in South Australia, the first occurred when Dunstan led Labor to four consecutive victories between 1970 and 1977. Labor achieved majority government when Nat Cook won the 2014 Fisher by-election triggered by Such's death.
^ "Liberal leader Steven Marshall sworn in as new South Australian Premier". ABC News. 19 March 2018. Retrieved 22 March 2018.
Despite this 1991 change, Labor has won a further three elections (2002, 2010 and 2014) with less than 50% of the two party preferred vote; though in 2002 this was due to the support of independents (and also initially in 2014, until Labor's Nat Cook won the 2014 Fisher by-election soon after). Prior to the 2018 election, at which the Liberals won a majority,[5] Labor had been in office for all but 12 years since 1970, the Liberals having only governed from 1979–1982 and 1993–2002.
State Electoral Office. "SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REFERENDA". Electoral Commission of South Australia. Archived (PDF) from the original on 31 October 2008. Retrieved 9 July 2020.
"Liberal leader Steven Marshall sworn in as new South Australian Premier"
^ Metropolitan 2PP correctly calculated by adding raw metro 2PP vote numbers from the 34 metro seats, both Labor and Liberal, then dividing Labor's raw metro 2PP vote from the total, which revealed a Labor metropolitan 2PP of 51.54%. Obtained raw metro 2PP vote numbers from ECSA 2014 election statistics Archived 7 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine, ECSA 2014 Heysen election Archived 11 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine and ABC 2014 Fisher by-election.
Dunstan, Don (1981). Felicia: The Political Memoirs of Don Dunstan. Griffin Press Limited. ISBN 0-333-33815-4.
By the early 1960s, the rural-to-urban ratio had been almost completely reversed from 1856; around two-thirds of the state's population lived in the Adelaide urban area, meaning the rural overweighting effectively resulted in a rural vote being worth at least double a vote in Adelaide. In one of the more extreme cases mentioned above, a vote in the rural seat of Frome was effectively worth ten times a vote in the urban seat of Enfield.
The electoral system contributed to Playford achieving a then-world record for a democratically elected leader, as he spent 26 years as Premier of South Australia.During this period, as a result of population changes, the rural overweighting allowed Playford to retain power even when the LCL lost by decisive margins in actual votes: in 1944 and 1953, for instance, Labor won 53 percent of the two-party vote to the LCL's 47 percent, a margin that in the other states of Australia (with fairer electoral systems) would have seen the Labor leaders (Robert Richards in 1944 and Mick O'Halloran in 1953) defeat Playford's LCL government in a landslide. However, with the Playmander, the LCL was still able to eke out a paper-thin majority in both elections.
The Playmander was eventually beaten at the 1965 election, when Labor gained power for the first time since 1933. While the two-party vote remained at 54.3 percent, the rural overweighting was strong enough that Labor won 21 seats, a mere two-seat majority. Walsh retired in late 1967 and was succeeded by Dunstan, who led Labor into the 1968 election.
^ History of Redistributions, South Australian Electoral Districts Boundaries Commission
^ "Draft Redistribution Report". Electoral Commission of South Australia. 12 August 2011. Archived from the original on 3 November 2012. Retrieved 9 June 2012.
^ Fair electoral boundaries an "impossible challenge": University of Adelaide, 21 March 2014
Crocker, Walter (1983). Sir Thomas Playford: A Portrait. Melbourne University Press. ISBN 0-522-84250-X.
By the 1950s, many Labor figures had despaired of ever defeating Playford and winning power. This attitude changed when Frank Walsh became state Labor leader in 1960 upon O'Halloran's death: knowing a statewide campaign was not realistic due to the significant rural overweighting, Walsh opted instead to target the LCL's marginal seats in the 1962 election. By then, the LCL's grip on power had become increasingly tenuous; due to being almost entirely dependent on rural support, the LCL usually won just enough seats to govern alone, and in fact it never held more than 23 seats during Playford's tenure. By the time the writs were dropped for the election, the LCL only had a bare majority of 20 seats, and had also lost seats at every election since 1950.
When South Australia first gained responsible government in 1856, its constitution required that there be two country seats for every one seat in Adelaide and its suburbs; thus, rural overweighting was written into the State's constitution.
Jaensch, Dean. (2006) When the state voting system defies all logic, The Advertiser, p18, 26 April 2006.
The LCL won only three metropolitan seats in 1965 and 1968 – Burnside, Mitcham and Torrens. The most populous metropolitan seats (13) had as much as 5-10 times the number of voters than the least populous rural seats (26), despite around two-thirds of the population located in the metropolitan area − at the 1968 election the rural seat of Frome had 4,500 formal votes, while the metropolitan seat of Enfield had 42,000 formal votes.
Blewett, Neal (1971). Playford to Dunstan: The Politics of Transition. Griffin Press Limited. ISBN 0-7015-1299-7.
This was because rural areas, excepting industrial towns such as Whyalla, Port Augusta and Port Pirie, were likely to support the LCL, while Adelaide and its suburbs were overwhelmingly Labor; even at the height of Playford's popularity, the LCL only had a realistic prospect of winning seats in the wealthy eastern suburbs and around Holdfast Bay.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Gerrymander in SA". The Canberra Times. 31 August 1976. p. 2. Retrieved 2 November 2014 – via National Library of Australia.
One element of the Playmander still exists to this day – the existence of single-member seats. Each Labor period of government since the end of the Playmander had at least one comprehensive win (1977, 1985 and 2006) allowing often-Liberal seats to be won by Labor candidates who then built up incumbency and personal popularity. Examples in 2014 were Mawson, Newland and Light, and additionally in 2010, Bright and Hartley – all gained at the 2006 election landslide. Mawson in fact swung toward Labor in 2010, 2014 and 2018 despite the statewide trend. The bellwether seat of Colton was retained by Labor. Furthermore, metropolitan Liberal seats and polling places had single and double digit swings against them.By comparison, as mentioned above, there has been only one comprehensive Liberal win since the end of the Playmander, in 1993.
It still fell short of "one vote one value", as Labor had demanded, since rural areas were still over-represented, albeit by only 10%; Adelaide had 60% of the seats, whereas it accounted for two-thirds of the state's population, though the most populous metropolitan seats still contained double the number of voters than the least populous rural seats.
Hall was embarrassed that the LCL was even in a position to govern, despite having been convincingly defeated in terms of actual votes. The outcry over the result led Hall to institute electoral reform in 1968: the House was expanded to 47 seats, with 28 in Adelaide and 19 in rural areas, which more than doubled the number of metropolitan seats and reduced the number of rural seats.
Labor and Liberal Parties, SA, Dean Jaensch, "A 2:1 ratio of enrolments in favour of the rural areas was in force from 1936."
This consisted of 26 low-population rural seats holding as much as a 10-to-1 advantage over the 13 high-population metropolitan seats in the state parliament, even though rural seats contained only a third of South Australia's population during this period. At the peak of the malapportionment in 1968, the rural seat of Frome had 4,500 formal votes, while the metropolitan seat of Enfield had 42,000 formal votes.
In 2014, the Liberals won 53 percent of the two-party vote to Labor's 47 percent.However, in Adelaide, Labor won 51.5 percent of the two-party vote to the Liberals' 48.5 percent.[7] The Liberals only won 12 of Adelaide's 34 seats. While only four of their 14 safe two-party seats were located in Adelaide, all eight non-safe (<10 percent) seats were in Adelaide. Overall, the election resulted in a hung parliament with 23 seats for Labor and 22 for the Liberals.
After John Bannon won in 1989 even after losing the two-party vote at 48 percent, a 1991 referendum was passed which added a "fairness clause" to electoral legislation, requiring the commission to redistribute seats with a view toward ensuring that party which receives a majority of the statewide two-party vote at the forthcoming election should win the two-party vote (in terms of "traditional" two-party matchups between Labor and the Liberals) in a majority of seats.[4]
The word Playmander is a portmanteau word derived from the name of long-serving Premier, Sir Thomas Playford, and the political term gerrymander, and was coined around 1971 by political scientists Neal Blewett and Dean Jaensch of Flinders University.[2]
One element of the Playmander remains to this day: the House of Assembly is still elected using single-member seats. Prior to the Playmander, the House of Assembly had been elected using multi-member seats since the inaugural 1857 election.
In 1989, 2010 and 2014, the Liberals won a narrow majority of the two-party vote.However, the Liberals fell short of winning government in all three elections because most of their majorities were wasted on massive landslides in their rural heartland.The only comprehensive Liberal victory, in terms of both two-party vote and seat count, came in 1993, when the Liberals won 61 percent of the two-party vote and all but nine seats in Adelaide en route to the biggest majority government in the state's history.
FAQ: Executive Government – The Cabinet Archived 26 November 2007 at the Wayback Machine, Parliamentary Education Office.
Ministers are appointed by the governor-general, on the advice of the prime minister, who is the leader of the Cabinet. Cabinet meetings are strictly private and occur once a week where vital issues are discussed and policy formulated. The Cabinet is also composed of a number of Cabinet committees focused on governance and specific policy issues. Outside the Cabinet there is an outer ministry and also a number of assistant ministers (designated as parliamentary secretaries under the Ministers of State Act 1952),[1] responsible for a specific policy area and reporting directly to a senior Cabinet minister of their portfolio. The Cabinet, the outer ministry, and the assistant ministers collectively form the full Commonwealth ministry of the government of the day.
The Expenditure Review Committee (ERC) considers matters of regarding expenditure and revenue of the Australian federal budget and the Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook. Decisions of the ERC must be endorsed by the Cabinet. The ERC is chaired by the prime minister with the treasurer as deputy chair and includes the deputy prime minister, the minister for social services, the minister for health, the minister for finance, and the minister for revenue and financial services.
"The Cabinet Files reveal national security breaches, NBN negotiations, welfare reform plans". Australian Broadcast Corporation. 31 January 2018. Retrieved 31 January 2018.
The Innovation and Science Committee (ISC) provides advice on science, research and innovation matters, including the implementation of the National Innovation and Science Agenda, development of innovation and science policy, and the National Innovation and Science Plan. Decisions of the ISC must be endorsed by the Cabinet. The ISC is chaired by the prime minister with the minister for industry, innovation and science as deputy chair and includes the deputy prime minister, the minister for foreign affairs, the treasurer, the minister for defence industry, the minister for health, the Cabinet secretary, the minister for education and training, the minister for the environment and energy, and the assistant minister for industry, innovation and science.
The National Infrastructure Committee (NIC) provides advice on the government's infrastructure agenda to support the nation's productivity including major public works projects, co-operation with the states and territories and the private sector on infrastructure investment and delivery, and infrastructure policy. Decisions of the NIC must be endorsed by the Cabinet. The NIC is chaired by the prime minister with the deputy prime minister as deputy chair and includes the minister for regional development/minister for regional communications/minister for local government and territories, the treasurer, the Cabinet secretary, the minister for finance, the minister for infrastructure and transport, the minister for urban infrastructure, and the assistant minister for cities and digital transformation.
As with other Westminster system cabinets, Cabinet committees play an important role in the effectiveness of the Cabinet system and providing avenues for collective decision-making on particular policy issues. Under the Morrison government, the following Cabinet committees existed:[10]
^ Introduction to the Cabinet and its records Archived 5 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine, National Archives of Australia.
As with the prime minister of Australia, the Constitution of Australia does not recognise the Cabinet as a legal entity; these roles actually exist solely by convention. Decisions of Cabinet do not in and of themselves have legal force. Instead, it convenes to function as a practical "foreshadowing" of the business of the Federal Executive Council, which is, officially (per the Constitution), Australia's highest formal governmental body established by Chapter II of the Constitution of Australia. In practice, the Federal Executive Council meets solely to endorse and give legal force to decisions already made by the Cabinet.
This page was last edited on 16 February 2023, at 00:31 (UTC).
^ a b "No. 14 – Ministers in the Senate". Senate Briefs. Parliament of Australia. December 2016.
Australia's system of government, Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
"The Cabinet Files reveal national security breaches, NBN negotiations, welfare reform plans"
The Australian Cabinet follows the traditions of the British parliamentary cabinet system, in following the principle of cabinet collective responsibility. While the Cabinet is responsible to parliament for making policy decisions, Cabinet discussions are confidential and are not disclosed to the public apart from the announcement of decisions. This secrecy is necessary to ensure that items of national security are not made public, and so that ministers can speak freely and disagree with each other during discussions.[5]
Under two-tier ministerial arrangements introduced in 1987, each senior or "portfolio" minister was a member of the Cabinet. In 1996 this was modified by the Howard government, whereby two portfolio ministers, one being the attorney-general, were not members of Cabinet, and one portfolio had two Cabinet ministers. In subsequent Howard ministries, and the 2007 Rudd Labor ministry, all portfolio ministers were in the Cabinet.[3]
^ Australia's system of government, Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
The Parliamentary Business Committee (PBC) considers priorities for the Australian government's legislation program and requests to the prime minister for the presentation of ministerial statements. Decisions of the PBC do not require the endorsement of the Cabinet. The PBC is chaired by the leader of the house with the leader of the government in the Senate as deputy chair and includes manager of government business in the senate, the deputy leader of the house, and the assistant minister to the prime minister.
Members of both the House of Representatives and Senate are eligible to serve as ministers and parliamentary secretaries. A minister does not have to be a member of either house, but Section 64 of the Constitution of Australia requires the minister to become a member within three months. The prime minister and treasurer are traditionally members of the House of Representatives, but the Constitution does not have such a requirement. As amended in 1987, the Minister of State Act 1952 permits up to 30 ministers. As members of one house cannot speak in the other, ministers in each house serve as representatives of colleagues in the other for answering questions and other procedures.[4]
Led by the leader of the Opposition, the Opposition in parliament appoints from its ranks a shadow cabinet to monitor government ministers and present itself as an alternative government. The portfolios of shadow ministers usually correspond with those of the government. When the Liberal and National parties are in Opposition, the shadow cabinet is appointed by the leader of the Opposition in consultation with the leader of the Nationals. When Labor has been in Opposition, the caucus has elected the shadow ministry and the leader has allocated portfolios. Smaller opposition parties often appoint spokespersons for Cabinet portfolios, but these are not referred to as a shadow cabinet.
"No. 14 – Ministers in the Senate". Senate Briefs. Parliament of Australia. December 2016.
^ Katharine Murphy (31 May 2022). "Anthony Albanese's ministry contains more surprises than expected following a factional kerfuffle". Guardian Australia. Retrieved 7 June 2022.
When the Labor Party first held office under Chris Watson, Watson assumed the right to choose members of the Cabinet. In 1907, however, the party decided that future Labor Cabinets would be elected by members of the Parliamentary Labor Party, the caucus, and this practice was followed until 2007. The prime minister retained the right to allocate portfolios. In practice, Labor prime ministers exercised a predominant influence over who was elected to Labor Cabinets, although leaders of party factions also exercised considerable influence.[citation needed]
The National Security Committee (NSC) focuses on major international security issues of strategic importance to Australia, border protection policy, national responses to developing situations (either domestic or international) and classified matters relating to aspects of operation and activities of the Australian Intelligence Community. Decisions of the NSC do not require the endorsement of the Cabinet. The NSC is chaired by the prime minister with the deputy prime minister as deputy chair and includes the attorney-general, the minister for foreign affairs, the minister for defence, the treasurer, the minister for immigration and border protection, and the Cabinet secretary.
All members of the Cabinet are members of the Executive Council; whereas the nominal presiding officer, the governor-general, almost never attends Executive Council meetings. A senior member of the Cabinet holds the office of vice-president of the Executive Council and acts as presiding officer of the Executive Council in place of the governor-general.[2]
^ "Federal Executive Council Handbook" (PDF). Government of Australia. June 2005. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 July 2007. Retrieved 7 July 2007.
^ James Massola (14 February 2021). "What are Labor's factions and who's who in the Left and Right?". The Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved 7 June 2022.
Introduction to the Cabinet and its records Archived 5 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine, National Archives of Australia.
The Service Delivery and Coordination Committee (SDCC) considers the implementation of the government's key priorities, including joined up service delivery and communications. The SDCC is chaired by the minister for immigration and border protection and includes the minister for regional development/minister for regional communications/minister for local government and territories (deputy leader of the National Party), the assistant minister to the prime minister, the special minister of state and minister assisting the Cabinet secretary, and the assistant minister for industry, innovation and science.
As of December 2016[update] every government since federation has had senators serve as ministers. The Senate typically provides one-quarter to one-third of the ministry. Some former senators and others have proposed that senators should not be eligible to serve as ministers, stating that doing so is inappropriate for members of a chamber that act as the states' house and a house of review and because governments are only responsible to the House of Representatives. John Uhr and Senator Baden Teague state that an advantage of senators serving in ministries is that the Senate can compel them to answer questions about the government.[4]
Since 1942, every member of the Cabinet has been a member of the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party of Australia, or the National Party of Australia.
^ Cabinet Handbook, 5th Edition Archived 28 August 2007 at the Wayback Machine, p32, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
Ministers are bound by a principle of cabinet solidarity, meaning that once cabinet has made a decision, all ministers must publicly support and defend that decision, regardless of their personal views on the subject.[6]
The Cabinet of Australia (or Federal Cabinet) is the chief decision-making organ of the executive branch of the government of Australia. It is a council of senior government ministers, ultimately responsible to the Federal Parliament.
^ "The Cabinet Files reveal national security breaches, NBN negotiations, welfare reform plans". Australian Broadcast Corporation. 31 January 2018. Retrieved 31 January 2018.
Australian Government Directory [1] Archived 16 January 2017 at the Wayback Machine Cabinet Committees
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Current Ministry List – Parliament of Australia". Home – Parliament of Australia. 24 August 2018. Retrieved 9 May 2020.
Before the 2007 election, Kevin Rudd announced that if Labor won the election he would dispense with this tradition and appoint the ministry himself. In fact, the caucus rule requiring the election of ministers remains in place. At the first caucus meeting after the election, Rudd announced the members of his chosen ministry, and the caucus then elected them unopposed, thus preserving the outward form of caucus election.[citation needed]
Katharine Murphy (31 May 2022). "Anthony Albanese's ministry contains more surprises than expected following a factional kerfuffle". Guardian Australia. Retrieved 7 June 2022.
"Anthony Albanese's ministry contains more surprises than expected following a factional kerfuffle"
Since the introduction of the two-tier ministry, meetings of Cabinet are attended by members only, although other ministers may attend if an area of their portfolio is on the agenda. Cabinet meetings are chaired by the prime minister, and a senior public servant is present to write the minutes and record decisions.[5]
Until 1956 Cabinet comprised all ministers. The growth of the ministry in the 1940s and 1950s made this increasingly impractical, and in 1956 Liberal Prime Minister Robert Menzies created a two-tier ministry, with only senior ministers being members of Cabinet, while the other ministers are in the outer ministry. This practice has been continued by all governments since, with the exception of the Whitlam government.
"Cabinet – Parliament of Australia". Home – Parliament of Australia. 21 August 2018. Retrieved 9 May 2020.
The Indigenous Policy Committee (IPC) coordinates a whole-of-government approach to Indigenous policy decision-making and program implementation. Decisions of the IPC must be endorsed by the Cabinet. The IPC is chaired by the prime minister with the minister for indigenous affairs as deputy chair and includes the attorney-general, the minister for women and minister for employment, the minister for infrastructure and transport, the minister for social services, the minister for health, the minister for education and training, the Cabinet secretary, and the assistant minister for health and aged care.
^ a b FAQ: Executive Government – The Cabinet Archived 26 November 2007 at the Wayback Machine, Parliamentary Education Office.
The Governance Committee (GC) provides advice and oversight of governance and integrity issues, which include the Statement of Ministerial Standards and issues arising from the Lobbyist Code. The GC is chaired by the prime minister with the deputy prime minister (leader of the Labor Party) as deputy chair and includes the minister for foreign affairs (deputy leader of the Liberal Party), the attorney-general (leader of the government in the Senate), and the Cabinet secretary.
The Digital Transformation Committee (DTC) considers matters of digital transformation across government. Decisions of the DTC must be endorsed by the Cabinet. The DTC is chaired by the prime minister with the minister for communications and the arts as deputy chair and includes the minister for industry, innovation and science; the minister for finance; the minister for immigration and border protection; the minister for health; the Cabinet secretary; the minister for revenue and financial services; the minister for human services; and the assistant minister for cities and digital transformation.
Cabinet Handbook, 5th Edition Archived 28 August 2007 at the Wayback Machine, p32, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
"Federal Executive Council Handbook" (PDF). Government of Australia. June 2005. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 July 2007. Retrieved 7 July 2007.
^ Australian Government Directory [1] Archived 16 January 2017 at the Wayback Machine Cabinet Committees
^ a b "Cabinet – Parliament of Australia". Home – Parliament of Australia. 21 August 2018. Retrieved 9 May 2020.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Current Ministry List – Parliament of Australia". Home – Parliament of Australia. 24 August 2018. Retrieved 9 May 2020.
Cabinet documents are held separately from other documents and may be destroyed once no longer in use, or when a change of government occurs.[7] Since 1986, minutes and records of Cabinet meetings are embargoed from public release or disclosure for 30 years.[8] Despite this, several filing cabinets containing classified documents were obtained by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation after they were sold at a government surplus auction. The documents, aspects of which were published in January 2018, reveal the inner workings of recent governments, and have been characterized by the ABC as the largest breach of cabinet security in the nation's history.[9]
In a parliamentary context, the Cabinet is of little procedural consequence; its relationship to Parliament being similar to the relationship between the ministry as a whole and Parliament. It is fundamentally an administrative mechanism to assist with the decision-making process of the executive government.[3]
James Massola (14 February 2021). "What are Labor's factions and who's who in the Left and Right?". The Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved 7 June 2022.
When the non-Labor parties have been in power, the prime minister has advised the governor-general on all Cabinet and ministerial appointments at his own discretion, although in practice he consults with senior colleagues in making appointments. When the Liberal Party and its predecessors (the Nationalist Party and the United Australia Party) have been in coalition with the National Party (or its predecessor the Country Party), the leader of the junior Coalition party has had the right to nominate his party's members of the Coalition ministry, and to be consulted by the prime minister on the allocation of their portfolios.[citation needed]
"What are Labor's factions and who's who in the Left and Right?"
"Palaszczuk shockwaves: Labor's lead obliterated, shock result if election held today"
In 2022 there was a by-election after Colin Boyce was elected to the seat of Flynn in the 2022 Australian Federal Election. This 2CP vote is based on that by-election result.
The 2024 Queensland state election is scheduled to be held on 26 October 2024 to elect all members to the Legislative Assembly of Queensland pursuant to the Constitution (Fixed Term Parliament) Amendment Act 2015. As a result of the 2016 Queensland term length referendum, the term of the parliament will run for four years.[1][2]
Queensland referendum: Vote on four-year parliamentary terms passes ABC News 5 April 2016
"Palaszczuk Labor still favoured by voters at political halfway mark"
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"YouGov poll reveals LNP and Labor neck and neck". The Courier Mail. 11 December 2022.
Queensland has compulsory voting and uses full-preference instant-runoff voting for single-member electorates. The election will be conducted by the Electoral Commission of Queensland (ECQ). The party or coalition that wins the majority of seats (at least 47) will form the government. If no majority emerges then the party or coalition that is able to command the confidence of the Legislative Assembly will form government.
The party or coalition that wins the second highest number of seats forms the opposition, with the remaining parties and independents candidates being allocated to the cross bench.
^ In 2022 there was a by-election after Colin Boyce was elected to the seat of Flynn in the 2022 Australian Federal Election. This 2CP vote is based on that by-election result.
"Palaszczuk Labor still favoured by voters at political halfway mark". Brisbane Times. 12 December 2022.
"LNP closing the gap on Labor's lead in the polls, Annastacia Palaszczuk viewed less favourably". The Courier Mail. 25 February 2022.
4Opinion polling											Toggle Opinion polling subsection																					4.1Graphical summary																								4.1.1Primary voting graph																											4.1.2Two-party preferred graph																											4.1.3Preferred Premier																											4.1.4Palaszczuk approval ratings																											4.1.5Crisafulli approval ratings																														4.2Voting intention																								4.2.1Preferred Premier and leadership polling table
4.1Graphical summary																								4.1.1Primary voting graph																											4.1.2Two-party preferred graph																											4.1.3Preferred Premier																											4.1.4Palaszczuk approval ratings																											4.1.5Crisafulli approval ratings
"LNP closing the gap on Labor's lead in the polls, Annastacia Palaszczuk viewed less favourably"
"Palaszczuk shockwaves: Labor's lead obliterated, shock result if election held today". The Courier Mail. 4 July 2022.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"YouGov poll reveals LNP and Labor neck and neck". The Courier Mail. 11 December 2022.
^ a b "Palaszczuk Labor still favoured by voters at political halfway mark". Brisbane Times. 12 December 2022.
This page was last edited on 6 March 2023, at 22:12 (UTC).
^ In 2021 there was a by-election after the passing of Duncan Pegg. This 2CP vote is based on that by-election result.
The Queensland Parliament is the only unicameral state parliament in Australia, composed of the Legislative Assembly. The upper house, the Queensland Legislative Council was abolished in 1922.
^ a b "LNP closing the gap on Labor's lead in the polls, Annastacia Palaszczuk viewed less favourably". The Courier Mail. 25 February 2022.
^ a b "Palaszczuk shockwaves: Labor's lead obliterated, shock result if election held today". The Courier Mail. 4 July 2022.
The election will be for all 93 members of the Legislative Assembly. Pursuant to Constitution (Fixed Term Parliament) Amendment Act 2015 Queensland has fixed terms, with all elections following the 2020 election held every four years on the last Saturday of October. The Governor may call an election earlier than scheduled if the Government does not maintain confidence, or the annual appropriation bill fails to pass.
In 2021 there was a by-election after the passing of Duncan Pegg. This 2CP vote is based on that by-election result.
^ Queensland referendum: Vote on four-year parliamentary terms passes ABC News 5 April 2016
The Australian Federal Executive Council formally consists of all current and former Commonwealth Ministers and Assistant Ministers (previously called parliamentary secretaries).[2] Members of the Executive Council are referred to as Councillors and are entitled to the style 'The Honourable' for life.[2] Section 64 of the Constitution stipulates that when a Minister is appointed, that Minister shall also become a member of the Executive Council.[2][5] There is no provision for such membership to come to an end, but only those Ministers in the current ministry who are invited to take part in meetings are in practice actually involved in Council activities.[2]
The Australian Federal Executive Council is the equivalent of executive councils in other Commonwealth realms, and is similar to the privy councils of Canada and the United Kingdom (although unlike the UK privy council, the Leader of the Opposition is not typically a member).[4]
In Australia's political system, the Federal Executive Council is a body established by Section 62 of the Australian Constitution to advise the Governor-General,[1][2] and comprises, at least notionally, all current and former Commonwealth ministers and assistant ministers. As the Governor-General is bound by convention to follow the advice of the Executive Council on almost all occasions, the Executive Council has de jure executive power.[3] In practice, this power is used to legally enact the decisions already made by Cabinet, which according to the practices of the Westminster system has no de jure authority in its own right (it exists solely by convention and is not established by the constitution or any statute).[3][4]
Meetings of the Executive Council do not require the Governor-General's attendance, but the Governor-General must be notified of the meeting in order for it to be valid. A quorum for meetings is the Governor-General and two serving ministers or assistant ministers. If the Governor-General is not in attendance, quorum is the Vice-President and two serving ministers or assistant ministers. In the absence of the Vice-President, quorum is three ministers, one of whom, a senior minister, will preside. In practice, meetings will only be attended by a small number of Councillors rather than the full Cabinet.[2]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Federal Executive Council Handbook 2021". Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 10 March 2021. Retrieved 3 January 2022.
There are some laws that specifically require decisions or actions to be made by the ‘Governor-General in Council’, which means that they must be effected by the Governor-General in the presence and with the authority of the Executive Council, as opposed to by a minister acting alone. The matters that are typically required to be dealt with by the Governor-General in Council include:
"VIDEO: Federal Executive Council meets ahead of Proclamation of King Charles III". ABC News. 11 September 2022.
"VIDEO: Federal Executive Council meets ahead of Proclamation of King Charles III"
^ "VIDEO: Federal Executive Council meets ahead of Proclamation of King Charles III". ABC News. 11 September 2022.
^ "Federal Executive Council Handbook" (PDF). Government of Australia. June 2005. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 July 2007. Retrieved 7 July 2007.
^ "Nation to honour Queen as King proclaimed". Canberra Times. 11 September 2022.
Most of the powers vested in the Governor-General, such as appointments and the authorisation of budgets, are exercisable only by "the Governor-General in Council" – that is, under advice from the Federal Executive Council. The Council acts as a formal ratification body for decisions of the Cabinet. In a parallel manner to the Royal Assent given to legislative Acts by the Governor-General after they have passed both Houses of Parliament, proposed executive actions will receive the approval of the Governor-General in Council after they have been agreed to by the Prime Minister and Cabinet.[2]
^ a b "Democracy in Australia – Australia's political system" (PDF). Australian Collaboration. Retrieved 25 January 2014.
The Governor-General presides over meetings of the Executive Council but is not a member.[2] A member of the Cabinet is appointed to hold the position of Vice-President of the Executive Council to act as presiding officer of the Executive Council in the absence of the Governor-General,[6] at no additional salary or allowance. However, the Vice-President cannot sign Executive Council documents on behalf of the Governor-General.
^ a b c d e f g h Commonwealth of Australia. Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (2021). Federal Executive Council Handbook 2021 (PDF). Commonwealth of Australia. ISBN 978-1-925364-53-8. Retrieved 3 January 2022. Text may be copied from this source, which is available under a Attribution 4.0 International(CC BY 4.0) licence.
The Governor-General has the power to dismiss any member of the Executive Council, but that power is rarely exercised in practice. It might be exercised if, hypothetically, a minister or former minister were convicted of a serious criminal offence. One notable case was that of the Queensland Senator Glen Sheil. Malcolm Fraser's government was re-elected at the 1977 election on 10 December, and on 19 December he publicly announced the ministry he would be recommending to the Governor-General, which included Senator Sheil as the new Minister for Veterans' Affairs. Sheil was sworn in as an Executive Councillor but, prior to the scheduled swearing-in of the Ministry, he made public statements about apartheid that were at odds with the government's attitude to the issue. Fraser then advised Governor-General Sir Zelman Cowen not to include Sheil in the ministry—advice that Cowen was required by convention to follow. Sheil's appointment as an Executive Councillor without portfolio was terminated on 22 December.[7]
"Nation to honour Queen as King proclaimed". Canberra Times. 11 September 2022.
"Democracy in Australia – Australia's political system" (PDF). Australian Collaboration. Retrieved 25 January 2014.
Commonwealth of Australia. Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (2021). Federal Executive Council Handbook 2021 (PDF). Commonwealth of Australia. ISBN 978-1-925364-53-8. Retrieved 3 January 2022. Text may be copied from this source, which is available under a Attribution 4.0 International(CC BY 4.0) licence.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Federal Executive Council Handbook 2021". Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 10 March 2021. Retrieved 3 January 2022.
This page was last edited on 12 September 2022, at 05:55 (UTC).
"Chapter II – The Executive Government". Constitution of Australia. Office of Parliamentary Counsel (Australia). Retrieved 25 January 2014.
^ "Chapter II – The Executive Government". Constitution of Australia. Office of Parliamentary Counsel (Australia). Retrieved 25 January 2014.
An example of a Federal Executive Council meeting which the Governor-General presided over was the meeting on 11 September 2022, when the Executive Council advised the Governor-General David Hurley to proclaim Charles III as the new head of state of Australia.[8][9] The proclamation of Charles III was an example of a power exercisable only by the Governor-General in Council.
"Federal Executive Council Handbook" (PDF). Government of Australia. June 2005. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 July 2007. Retrieved 7 July 2007.
Hamer, David. "The executive government". Department of the Senate (Australia). Retrieved 25 January 2014.
^ a b Hamer, David. "The executive government". Department of the Senate (Australia). Retrieved 25 January 2014.
Green, Antony. "Final Figures for 2012 Northern Territory Election". ABC. Archived from the original on 23 August 2011. Retrieved 2 September 2012.
^ "Constitution of the Country Liberal Party of the Northern Territory" (PDF). 13. Country Liberal Party. 6 April 2018. p. 9.
Heatley, Alistair J. (1998). The Territory Party: The Northern Territory Country Liberal Party 1974-1998. NTU Press. ISBN 9781876248208.
The CLP originated in 1971 as a division of the Australian Country Party (later renamed the National Party), the first local branches of which were formed in 1966. It adopted its current name in 1974 to attract Liberal Party supporters, but maintained a sole affiliation with the Country Party until 1979 when it adopted its current joint association. The party dominated the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly from the inaugural election in 1974 through to its defeat at the 2001 election, winning eight consecutive elections and providing the territory's first seven chief ministers. Following its defeat in 2001, the party did not return to power until 2012, but was defeated after a single term and has remained in opposition since 2016. The party is currently led by Lia Finocchiaro, who was elected party leader and leader of the opposition in February 2020.
Finocchiaro led the CLP to a modest recovery at the 2020 Territory election. The CLP picked up a six-seat swing, boosting its seat count to eight. However, it failed to make significant inroads in Darwin/Palmerston, winning only two seats there, including that of Finocchiaro.
^ Heatley, Alistair. The Territory Party: The Northern Territory Country Liberal Party, 1974–1998. NTU Press. pp. 8–9.
Davey, Paul (2010). Ninety Not Out: The Nationals 1920-2010. UNSW Press. p. 184. ISBN 9781742231662.
Kristy O'Brien (12 September 2012). "Politicians link suicides to cattle export ban". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on 31 October 2016. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
A party system did not develop in the Northern Territory until the 1960s, due to its small population and lack of regular elections. The Australian Labor Party (ALP) contested elections as early as 1905, but rarely faced an organised opposition; anti-Labor candidates usually stood as independents. The regionalist North Australia Party (NAP), established by Lionel Rose for the Legislative Council elections in 1965, has been cited as a predecessor of the CLP.[4]
"Mills dumped as Giles takes top Territory job". ABC News. Australia. 13 March 2013. Archived from the original on 14 March 2013. Retrieved 13 March 2013.
The CLP lost the seat of Daly to Labor in a 2021 by-election, the first time an incumbent government had won a seat from the opposition in territory history.[36]
Dunlevie, James (3 February 2015). "Adam Giles dumped as NT chief minister in late-night coup, Willem Westra van Holthe elected leader". ABC News. Australia. Archived from the original on 5 February 2015. Retrieved 3 February 2015.
^ "Labor declares victory for Dheran Young in Daly by-election". ABC News. 11 September 2021. Retrieved 26 September 2021.
At the 2001 election the Australian Labor Party won government by one seat, ending 27 years of CLP government.[15] The loss marked a major turning point in Northern Territory politics, a result which was exacerbated when, at the 2005 election, the ALP won the second-largest majority government in the history of the Territory, reducing the once-dominant party to just four members in the Legislative Assembly. This result was only outdone by the 1974 election, in which the CLP faced only two independents as opposition.The CLP even lost two seats in Palmerston, an area where the ALP had never come close to winning any seats before.
^ "Constitution of the Country Liberal Party of the Northern Territory" (PDF). 13. Country Liberal Party. 6 April 2018. p. 6.
The 2008 election saw the CLP recover from the severe loss it suffered three years earlier, increasing its representation from four to 11 members. Following the 2011 decision of ALP-turned-independent member Alison Anderson to join the CLP, this increased CLP's representation to 12 in the Assembly, leaving the incumbent Henderson Government to govern in minority with the support of Independent MP Gerry Wood.
^ a b Tom Lansford, ed. (2014). Political Handbook of the World 2014. SAGE Publications. p. 80. ISBN 978-1-4833-8626-3.
The CLP under the leadership of Terry Mills returned to power in the 2012 election with 16 of 25 seats,[18] defeating the incumbent Labor Government led by Paul Henderson. In the lead up to the Territory election, CLP Senator Nigel Scullion sharply criticised the Federal Labor Government for its suspension of the live cattle trade to Indonesia - an economic mainstay of the territory.[19]
Davey, Paul (2017). "Kilgariff, Bernard Francis (1923–2010)". The Biographical Dictionary of the Australian Senate. Retrieved 30 November 2022.
^ "NT party renamed". The Canberra Times. 22 July 1974.
On February 2023, the party voted to oppose the Voice to Parliament.[38][39]
^ Rodney P. Carlisle, ed. (2005). Encyclopedia of Politics: The Left and the Right. SAGE Publications. p. 535. ISBN 978-1-4522-6531-5.
Federally, a MediaReach seat-level opinion poll of 513 voters in the seat of Solomon conducted 22−23 June ahead of the 2016 federal election held on 2 July surprisingly found Labor candidate Luke Gosling heavily leading two-term CLP incumbent Natasha Griggs 61–39 on the two-party vote from a large 12.4 percent swing.[32] The CLP lost Solomon to Labor at the election, with Gosling defeating Griggs 56–44 on the two-party vote from a 7.4 percent swing.[33]
"Country Liberal Party "100 per cent" behind new leader Lia Finocchiaro"
^ Australian Electoral Commission. "Solomon, NT - Tally Room: Australian Electoral Commission". Vtr.aec.gov.au. Archived from the original on 12 August 2016. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
^ Green, Antony. 2005 election summary Archived 6 September 2013 at the Wayback Machine. ABC News, 2005-04-15.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Heatley, Alistair. The Territory Party: The Northern Territory Country Liberal Party, 1974–1998. NTU Press. p. 5.
Polling ahead of the 2016 Territory election indicated a large swing against the CLP, including a near-total collapse in Darwin/Palmerston. By the time the writs were dropped, commentators had almost universally written off the CLP. At 27 August Territory election, the CLP was swept from power in a massive Labor landslide, suffering easily the worst defeat of a sitting government in Territory history and one of the worst defeats a governing party has ever suffered at the state or territory level in Australia.The party not only lost all of the bush seats it picked up in 2012, but was all but shut out of Darwin/Palmerston, winning only one seat there.All told, the CLP only won two seats, easily its worst showing in an election.Giles himself lost his own seat, becoming the second Majority Leader/Chief Minister to lose his own seat.Even before Giles' defeat was confirmed, second-term MP Gary Higgins—the only surviving member of the Giles cabinet—was named the party's new leader, with Lia Finocchiaro as his deputy.[34] On 20 January 2020, Higgins announced his resignation as party leader and announced his retirement at the next election. Finocchiaro succeeded him as CLP leader and leader of the opposition on 1 February 2020.[35]
^ "Indigenous vote decided outcome in the Territory | the Australian". Archived from the original on 22 September 2012. Retrieved 22 January 2012.
A Darwin branch of the Country Party was established on 20 July 1966, following by an Alice Springs branch on 29 July. The creation of the branches was spurred by the upcoming 1966 federal election and the announcement by the Northern Territory's federal MP Jock Nelson that he would be retiring from politics. The Country Party achieved its first electoral success with the election of Sam Calder as Nelson's replacement.[5] It subsequently won four out of eleven seats at the 1968 Legislative Council elections. A third branch of the party was established in Katherine in February 1971. The branches affiliated with the Federal Council of the Australian Country Party in July 1971, establishing a formal entity with a central council, executive and annual conference.[6] The party was formally named the "Australian Country Party – Northern Territory".[7]
"Indigenous vote decided outcome in the Territory | the Australian"
^ a b "Constitution of the Country Liberal Party of the Northern Territory" (PDF). 13. Country Liberal Party. 6 April 2018. p. 3.
"Gary Higgins becomes Country Liberals' new leader, Lia Finnochiaro his deputy". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. 2 September 2016. Archived from the original on 3 September 2016. Retrieved 2 September 2016.
"Northern Territory Adopts Optional Preferential Voting and Bans Campaigning Near Polling Places"
^ On 29 July 1966, an Alice Springs-branch of the Country Party (CP) was established.[1] This was the earliest formation of what became the Country Liberal Party. The new party was officially launched at the Annual Conference in Alice Springs on 20 July 1974 as a ‘fusion’ between the Country Party and the Liberal Party into a sole organisation, having both names in its title.[2]
"Indigenous politician Adam Giles to replace Terry Mills as NT Chief Minister"
Everingham, Sara (14 March 2013). "Indigenous politician Adam Giles to replace Terry Mills as NT Chief Minister". AM (ABC Radio). Australia. Archived from the original on 20 May 2013. Retrieved 14 March 2013.
^ Kristy O'Brien (12 September 2012). "Politicians link suicides to cattle export ban". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on 31 October 2016. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
^ "Northern Territory Chief Minister Adam Giles refuses to quit after being dumped in a late-night coup". ABC News. Australia. 3 February 2015. Archived from the original on 16 February 2015. Retrieved 14 February 2015.
^ "Adam Giles remains NT chief minister". SBS News. Retrieved 3 February 2015.
Arcadian populism: the Country Liberal Party and self-government in the Northern Territory
^ "Kezia Purick quits Northern Territory Country Liberals party, Government loses one-seat majority". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. 20 July 2015. Archived from the original on 2 September 2016. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
"Kezia Purick quits Northern Territory Country Liberals party, Government loses one-seat majority"
The Country Liberal Party of the Northern Territory (CLP)[3] is a centre-right political party in Australia's Northern Territory. In local politics it operates in a two-party system with the Australian Labor Party (ALP). It also contests federal elections as an affiliate of the Liberal Party of Australia and National Party of Australia, the two partners in the federal coalition.
"Party members of the NT's Country Liberals vote to oppose an Indigenous Voice to Parliament". ABC News. 19 February 2023.
^ Davey, Paul (2017). "Kilgariff, Bernard Francis (1923–2010)". The Biographical Dictionary of the Australian Senate. Retrieved 30 November 2022.
The CLP stands for office in the Northern Territory Assembly and Federal Parliament of Australia and primarily concerns itself with representing Territory interests. It is a regionally based party, that has parliamentary representation in both the Federal Parliament and at the Territory level. It brands as a party with strong roots in the Territory.
"Gary Higgins becomes Country Liberals' new leader, Lia Finnochiaro his deputy"
"Indigenous vote decided outcome in the Territory | the Australian". Archived from the original on 22 September 2012. Retrieved 22 January 2012.
While the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly was created in 1974, self-government was not granted until 1978.
^ a b "Adam Giles would 'love to go to an early election' after Kezia Purick resigns Country Liberals party". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. 20 July 2015. Archived from the original on 1 September 2016. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
The CLP president has full voting rights with the National Party and observer status with the Liberal Party. Both the Liberals and Nationals receive Country Liberal delegations at their conventions. After federal elections, the CLP directs its federal members and senators as to which of the two other parties they should sit with in the parliamentary chamber. In practice, CLP House members usually sit with the Liberals, while CLP Senators sit with the Nationals.
^ Antony Green (11 February 2016). "Northern Territory Adopts Optional Preferential Voting and Bans Campaigning Near Polling Places". Blogs.abc.net.au. Archived from the original on 23 August 2011. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
Australian Electoral Commission. "Solomon, NT - Tally Room: Australian Electoral Commission". Vtr.aec.gov.au. Archived from the original on 12 August 2016. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
^ "Party members of the NT's Country Liberals vote to oppose an Indigenous Voice to Parliament". ABC News. 19 February 2023.
Adam Giles replaced Mills as Chief Minister of the Northern Territory and party leader at the 2013 CLP leadership ballot on 13 March while Mills was on a trade mission in Japan.[22] Giles was sworn in as Chief Minister on 14 March, becoming the first indigenous head of government of an Australian state or territory.[23][24]
The CLP's constitution describes it as an "independent conservative" party and commits it to Northern Territory statehood. It has typically prioritised economic development of the territory and originally drew most of its support from Outback towns and the pastoral industry. It later developed a voter base among the urban middle-class populations of Darwin and Alice Springs. The party has had a fluctuating relationship with the territory's large Indigenous population, notably providing the territory's first Indigenous MP (Hyacinth Tungutalum) and Australia's first Indigenous head of government (Adam Giles).
The Annual Conference of the Country Liberal Party, attended by branch delegates and members of the party's Central Council, decides matters relating to the party's platform and philosophy. The Central Council administers the party and makes decisions on pre-selections. It is composed of the party's office bearers, its leaders in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, members in the Federal Parliament, and representation from each of the party's branches.[15]
^ "Country Liberal Party to oppose Voice". 18 February 2023.
The Whitlam Government passed legislation in 1974 to establish a fully elected unicameral Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, replacing the previous partly elected Legislative Council, which had been in existence since 1947. The CLP won 17 out of 19 seats at the inaugural elections in October 1974, with independents holding the other two seats.[12] Goff Letts became the inaugural majority leader, a title changed to chief minister after the granting of self-government in 1978. The CLP governed the Northern Territory from 1974 until the 2001 election. During this time, it never faced more than nine opposition members. Indeed, the CLP's dominance was so absolute that its internal politics were seen as a bigger threat than any opposition party.[13] This was especially pronounced in the mid-1980s, when a series of party-room coups resulted in the Territory having three Chief Ministers in four years and also saw the creation of the Northern Territory Nationals as a short-lived splinter group under the leadership of former CLP chief minister Ian Tuxworth.
^ "An independent poll shows Solomon MP Natasha Griggs will struggle to retain her seat at the federal election". NT News. 27 June 2016. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
Branch delegates and members of the party's Central Council attend the Annual Conference of the Country Liberal Party to decide the party's platform. The Central Council is composed of the party's office bearers, its leaders from the Territory Assembly and the Federal Parliament and representatives of party branches.[15]
^ "Mills dumped as Giles takes top Territory job". ABC News. Australia. 13 March 2013. Archived from the original on 14 March 2013. Retrieved 13 March 2013.
Heatley, Alistair. The Territory Party: The Northern Territory Country Liberal Party, 1974–1998. NTU Press. pp. 8–9.
"Labor declares victory for Dheran Young in Daly by-election". ABC News. 11 September 2021. Retrieved 26 September 2021.
"Constitution of the Country Liberal Party of the Northern Territory" (PDF). 13. Country Liberal Party. 6 April 2018. p. 3.
"Kezia Purick quits Northern Territory Country Liberals party, Government loses one-seat majority". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. 20 July 2015. Archived from the original on 2 September 2016. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
Smith, Robyn (2011). Arcadian populism: the Country Liberal Party and self-government in the Northern Territory (PDF) (PhD thesis). Charles Darwin University. Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 March 2016.
Green, Antony. 2005 election summary Archived 6 September 2013 at the Wayback Machine. ABC News, 2005-04-15.
"Adam Giles dumped as NT chief minister in late-night coup, Willem Westra van Holthe elected leader"
Antony Green (27 May 2013). "Timetable for Future Elections". Blogs.abc.net.au. Archived from the original on 23 August 2011. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
The CLP competes against the Australian Labor Party (Northern Territory Branch) (the local branch of Australia's social-democratic party). It is closely affiliated with, but is independent from the Liberal Party of Australia (a mainly urban, pro-business party comprising mainly liberal membership) and the National Party of Australia (a conservative agrarian and regional interests party).[15]
Willem Westra van Holthe challenged Giles at the 2015 CLP leadership ballot on 2 February and was elected leader by the party room in a late night vote conducted by phone.[25] However, Giles refused to resign as Chief Minister following the vote. On 3 February, ABC News reported that officials were preparing an instrument for Giles' removal by the Administrator. The swearing-in of Westra van Holthe, which had been scheduled for 11:00 local time (01:30 UTC), was delayed.[26] After a meeting of the parliamentary wing of the CLP, Giles announced that he would remain as party leader and Chief Minister, and that Westra van Holthe would be his deputy.[27]
^ Vivian, Steve (20 January 2020). "Country Liberal Party "100 per cent" behind new leader Lia Finocchiaro". ABC News. Retrieved 5 February 2020.
"Parliament @ Work - The Country Liberal Party (CLP)". Parliament.curriculum.edu.au. Archived from the original on 18 February 2017. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
"Northern Territory Chief Minister Adam Giles refuses to quit after being dumped in a late-night coup"
Historically, the CLP has been particularly dominant in the Territory's two major cities, Darwin/Palmerston and Alice Springs. However, in recent years the ALP has pulled even with the CLP in the Darwin area; indeed, its 2001 victory was fueled by an unexpected swing in Darwin.
1.42012–2016: Return to government and internal conflict																								1.4.1Leadership spills																											1.4.2Defections and minority government
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Heatley, Alistair. The Territory Party: The Northern Territory Country Liberal Party, 1974–1998. NTU Press. p. 5.
^ "Gary Higgins becomes Country Liberals' new leader, Lia Finnochiaro his deputy". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. 2 September 2016. Archived from the original on 3 September 2016. Retrieved 2 September 2016.
The Country Party primarily drew its support from Alice Springs, small towns, and the pastoral industry, including "a fair proportion of the non-urban Aboriginal vote".[6] The party did not have a strong presence in Darwin. A branch of the Liberal Party, the Country Party's coalition partner at a federal level, had been established in Darwin in 1966, representing commercial interests and urban professionals. The Liberals fielded candidates at the 1968 Legislative Council elections, but by 1970 the local branch had ceased to function.[8] In 1973, the Country Party began actively working to include Liberal supporters within its organisation, spurred by the Whitlam Government's announcement of a fully elective Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Following informal negotiations led by Goff Letts, a joint committee was established to determine changes to the Country Party's constitution and policy.[9] These were officially approved, along with the adoption of the name Country Liberal Party, at the party's annual conference in Alice Springs on 20 July 1974.[10] The 2018 constitution of the party states that it was formed in 1974.[11]
The election victory ended 11 years of ALP rule in the Northern Territory. The victory was also notable for the support it achieved from indigenous people in pastoral and remote electorates. Large swings were achieved in remote Territory electorates (where the indigenous population comprised around two-thirds of voters) and a total of five Aboriginal CLP candidates won election to the Assembly.[20] Among the indigenous candidates elected were high-profile Aboriginal activist Bess Price and former ALP member Alison Anderson. Anderson was appointed Minister for Indigenous Advancement. In a nationally reported speech in November 2012, Anderson condemned welfare dependency and a culture of entitlement in her first ministerial statement on the status of Aboriginal communities in the Territory and said the CLP would focus on improving education and on helping create real jobs for indigenous people.[21]
The foreword to the constitution of the party describes it as an "independent conservative political party".[11] One of the objectives in the party's constitution is to "work toward the achievement of Statehood in the Northern Territory".[37] The party promotes traditional Liberal Party values such as individualism and private enterprise, and what it describes as "progressive" political policy such as full statehood for the Northern Territory.[15]
Tom Lansford, ed. (2014). Political Handbook of the World 2014. SAGE Publications. p. 80. ISBN 978-1-4833-8626-3.
"An independent poll shows Solomon MP Natasha Griggs will struggle to retain her seat at the federal election". NT News. 27 June 2016. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
^ a b c d e "Parliament @ Work - The Country Liberal Party (CLP)". Parliament.curriculum.edu.au. Archived from the original on 18 February 2017. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
"Adam Giles remains NT chief minister". SBS News. Retrieved 3 February 2015.
After four defections during the parliamentary term, the CLP was reduced to minority government by July 2015.[28][29] Giles raised the possibility of an early election on 20 July stating that he would "love" to call a snap poll, but that it was "pretty much impossible to do". Crossbenchers dismissed the notion of voting against a confidence motion to bring down the government.[29]
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.1Origins																											1.21974–2001: Foundation and early dominance																											1.32001–2012: In opposition																											1.42012–2016: Return to government and internal conflict																								1.4.1Leadership spills																											1.4.2Defections and minority government																														1.52016–present: In opposition
"Northern Territory Chief Minister Adam Giles refuses to quit after being dumped in a late-night coup". ABC News. Australia. 3 February 2015. Archived from the original on 16 February 2015. Retrieved 14 February 2015.
"Constitution of the Country Liberal Party of the Northern Territory" (PDF). 13. Country Liberal Party. 6 April 2018. p. 9.
^ Davey, Paul (2010). Ninety Not Out: The Nationals 1920-2010. UNSW Press. p. 184. ISBN 9781742231662.
^ While the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly was created in 1974, self-government was not granted until 1978.
"An independent poll shows Solomon MP Natasha Griggs will struggle to retain her seat at the federal election"
^ Green, Antony. "Final Figures for 2012 Northern Territory Election". ABC. Archived from the original on 23 August 2011. Retrieved 2 September 2012.
"Constitution of the Country Liberal Party of the Northern Territory" (PDF). 13. Country Liberal Party. 6 April 2018. p. 6.
The Territory Party: The Northern Territory Country Liberal Party 1974-1998
The Whitlam Government also passed legislation to give the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory (ACT) representation in the federal Senate, with each territory electing two senators. Bernie Kilgariff was elected as the CLP's first senator at the 1975 federal election, sitting alongside Sam Calder in the parliamentary National Country Party. On 3 February 1979 a special conference of the CLP resolved that "the Federal CLP Parliamentarians be permitted to sit in the Party Rooms of their choice in Canberra". Despite personal misgivings, Kilgariff chose to sit with the parliamentary Liberal Party from 8 March 1979 in order that the CLP have representation in both parties, a practice which has been maintained where possible.[14]
"Constitution of the Country Liberal Party of the Northern Territory"
"Adam Giles would 'love to go to an early election' after Kezia Purick resigns Country Liberals party". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. 20 July 2015. Archived from the original on 1 September 2016. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
Territory government legislation passed in February 2016 changed the voting method of single-member electorates from full-preferential voting to optional preferential voting ahead of the 2016 territory election held on 27 August.[30][31]
Antony Green (11 February 2016). "Northern Territory Adopts Optional Preferential Voting and Bans Campaigning Near Polling Places". Blogs.abc.net.au. Archived from the original on 23 August 2011. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
^ Dunlevie, James (3 February 2015). "Adam Giles dumped as NT chief minister in late-night coup, Willem Westra van Holthe elected leader". ABC News. Australia. Archived from the original on 5 February 2015. Retrieved 3 February 2015.
^ "Giles denies plot to overthrow Mills". ABC News. Australia. 14 March 2013. Archived from the original on 14 March 2013. Retrieved 14 March 2013.
Vivian, Steve (20 January 2020). "Country Liberal Party "100 per cent" behind new leader Lia Finocchiaro". ABC News. Retrieved 5 February 2020.
^ Everingham, Sara (14 March 2013). "Indigenous politician Adam Giles to replace Terry Mills as NT Chief Minister". AM (ABC Radio). Australia. Archived from the original on 20 May 2013. Retrieved 14 March 2013.
This page was last edited on 11 March 2023, at 11:16 (UTC).
"Party members of the NT's Country Liberals vote to oppose an Indigenous Voice to Parliament"
Rodney P. Carlisle, ed. (2005). Encyclopedia of Politics: The Left and the Right. SAGE Publications. p. 535. ISBN 978-1-4522-6531-5.
In the 2001 federal election, the CLP won the newly formed seat of Solomon, based on Darwin/Palmerston, in the House of Representatives.[16]In the 2004 federal election, the CLP held one seat in the House of Representatives, and one seat in the Senate.[17] The CLP lost its federal lower house seat in the 2007 federal election,[17] but regained it when Palmerston deputy mayor Natasha Griggs won back Solomon for the CLP. She sat with the Liberals in the House.
"Adam Giles would 'love to go to an early election' after Kezia Purick resigns Country Liberals party"
On 29 July 1966, an Alice Springs-branch of the Country Party (CP) was established.[1] This was the earliest formation of what became the Country Liberal Party. The new party was officially launched at the Annual Conference in Alice Springs on 20 July 1974 as a ‘fusion’ between the Country Party and the Liberal Party into a sole organisation, having both names in its title.[2]
"Giles denies plot to overthrow Mills". ABC News. Australia. 14 March 2013. Archived from the original on 14 March 2013. Retrieved 14 March 2013.
^ Antony Green (27 May 2013). "Timetable for Future Elections". Blogs.abc.net.au. Archived from the original on 23 August 2011. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
At federal level, the CLP contests elections for the Northern Territory's House of Representatives and Senate seats, which also cover the Australian Indian Ocean Territories. It is registered with the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC). Its candidates do not form a separate parliamentary party but instead join either the Liberal or National partyrooms – for instance, CLP senator Nigel Scullion was a long-serving deputy leader of the Nationals. Its sole current federal MP Jacinta Nampijinpa Price sits with the National Party.
The Nationals had candidates in 14 seats where three-cornered-contests existed, with 87.34% of preferences favouring the Liberal Party.
Parramatta had become a notional Labor seat as a result of the redistribution.
The 2001 Australian federal election was held in Australia on 10 November 2001. All 150 seats in the House of Representatives and 40 seats in the 76-member Senate were up for election. The incumbent Liberal Party of Australia led by Prime Minister of Australia John Howard and coalition partner the National Party of Australia led by John Anderson defeated the opposition Australian Labor Party led by Kim Beazley.
^ Parramatta had become a notional Labor seat as a result of the redistribution.
Issues that swung elections: Tampa and the national security election of 2001 The Conversation
^ For seats that were affected by the redistribution the Australian Electoral Commission calculated "notional" margins for the redistributed divisions by modelling the outcome of the previous election as if the new boundaries had been in place.[7]
Future Opposition Leader Peter Dutton entered parliament at this election.
The following table indicates seats that changed hands from one party to another at this election. It compares the election results with the previous margins, taking into account redistributions in New South Wales, Western Australia, South Australia, Tasmania and both territories. As a result, it includes the seats of Macarthur and Parramatta, which were held by Liberal members but had notional Labor margins. The table also includes the new seat of Hasluck (retained by Labor); the abolished Northern Territory, which was divided into Lingiari (retained by Labor) and Solomon (retained by the CLP); and Paterson, a Labor seat made Liberal by the redistribution
Pages using bar box without float left or float right
^ Macarthur had become a notional Labor seat as a result of the redistribution.
"Electoral Newsfile 97: Seat Status including notional seat status for SA, NSW, Tas, WA and NT Divisions"
The election-eve Newspoll forecast that the Liberal/National Coalition would get 53 percent of the two-party-preferred vote.[5]
The Greens contested 145 electorates with preferences strongly favouring Labor (74.83%).
Shayne Murphy had resigned from the Labor Party on 2 October 2001 and served out the rest of his term as an independent.
2Results											Toggle Results subsection																					2.1House of Representatives results																											2.2Senate results
Results of the 2001 Australian federal election (House of Representatives) § Australia
^ John Moore (Liberal) had won Ryan at the 1998 election, however he resigned in 2001 and Leonie Short (Labor) won the seat at the resulting by-election.
^ a b Shayne Murphy had resigned from the Labor Party on 2 October 2001 and served out the rest of his term as an independent.
The Democrats contested 145 electorates with preferences favouring Labor (64.13%).
Throughout much of 2001, the Coalition had been trailing Labor in opinion polls, thanks to dissatisfaction with the government's economic reform programme and high petrol prices.[citation needed] The opposition Australian Labor Party had won a majority of the two-party-preferred vote at the previous election and had won a series of state and territory elections. Labor also recorded positive swings in two by-elections, taking the Queensland seat of Ryan and coming close in Aston.
Political scientists[who?] have suggested that television coverage has subtly transformed the political system, with a spotlight on leaders rather than parties, thereby making for more of an American presidential-style system. In this election, television news focused on international issues, especially terrorism and asylum seekers.Minor parties were largely ignored as the two main parties monopolised the media's attention. The election was depicted as a horse-race between Howard and Beazley, with Howard running ahead and therefore being given more coverage than his Labor rival.[4]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Tampa issue improves Coalition election prospects: ABC 7.30 report 4/9/2001". Abc.net.au. Archived from the original on 22 October 2008. Retrieved 13 June 2010.
^ "Newspoll archive since 1987". Polling.newspoll.com.au.tmp.anchor.net.au. Archived from the original on 3 March 2016. Retrieved 30 July 2016.
John Moore (Liberal) had won Ryan at the 1998 election, however he resigned in 2001 and Leonie Short (Labor) won the seat at the resulting by-election.
^ "2001 Senate national summary". Psephos Adam Carr's Election Archive. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
^ David Denemark, Ian Ward, and Clive Bean, Election Campaigns and Television News Coverage: The Case of the 2001 Australian Election. Australian Journal of Political Science. (2007) 42#1 pp: 89–109 online
^ "National seat status". Australian Electoral Commission. Retrieved 13 May 2019.
^ Patersonhad become a notional Liberal seat as a result of the redistribution.
Patersonhad become a notional Liberal seat as a result of the redistribution.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Tampa issue improves Coalition election prospects: ABC 7.30 report 4/9/2001". Abc.net.au. Archived from the original on 22 October 2008. Retrieved 13 June 2010.
One Nation contested 120 electorates with preferences slightly favouring the Liberal/National Coalition (55.87%).
For seats that were affected by the redistribution the Australian Electoral Commission calculated "notional" margins for the redistributed divisions by modelling the outcome of the previous election as if the new boundaries had been in place.[7]
"Electoral Newsfile 97: Seat Status including notional seat status for SA, NSW, Tas, WA and NT Divisions". Australian Electoral Commission. 2001.
This page was last edited on 11 July 2022, at 11:27 (UTC).
^ Issues that swung elections: Tampa and the national security election of 2001 The Conversation
In fact, voter concern with terrorism in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks in the United States was noted, with the rise in the combined primary votes of the major partiesfrom 79.61% at the previous election in 1998, to 81.17% at this election. There would be further increases in the combined major party primary vote in 2004 and 2007.
"Newspoll archive since 1987". Polling.newspoll.com.au.tmp.anchor.net.au. Archived from the original on 3 March 2016. Retrieved 30 July 2016.
Issues that swung elections: Tampa and the national security election of 2001
Another major issue was the collapse of the country's second-biggest airline Ansett Australia and the question of whether it should be given a bailout. The Coalition was opposed to any bailout because the collapse was not the government's fault.[citation needed] However, Labor supported a bailout, because the company's collapse was about to result in the biggest mass job loss in Australian history, whilst also arguing that the government was partially responsible for allowing Ansett to be taken over by Air New Zealand, a move which had caused Ansett's failure.[2] Although the two-party preferred result was reasonably close, the ALP recorded its lowest primary vote since 1934.[3]
^ "Electoral Newsfile 97: Seat Status including notional seat status for SA, NSW, Tas, WA and NT Divisions". Australian Electoral Commission. 2001.
However following the September 11 attacks, and the Children Overboard and Tampa affairs, Polls swung strongly toward the coalition after the "Tampa" controversy but before the 11 September attacks.[1]
Macarthur had become a notional Labor seat as a result of the redistribution.
House of Representatives results (NSW, Vic, Qld, WA, SA, Tas, Territories)
University of WA Archived 18 January 2015 at the Wayback Machine election results in Australia since 1890
"Tampa issue improves Coalition election prospects: ABC 7.30 report 4/9/2001"
"2001 Senate national summary". Psephos Adam Carr's Election Archive. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
"National seat status". Australian Electoral Commission. Retrieved 13 May 2019.
David Denemark, Ian Ward, and Clive Bean, Election Campaigns and Television News Coverage: The Case of the 2001 Australian Election. Australian Journal of Political Science. (2007) 42#1 pp: 89–109 online
^ Nunn, Gary (30 July 2019). "How good are quiet Australians! ScoMo's language legacy". The Guardian. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
"From battlers to basket weavers: a guide to Australia's voter types"
"About Us". The Order of Australia Association. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
Paul Osborne, writing for the Australian Associated Press, argued that Morrison had angered the quiet Australians and turned them "cranky."[21]
^ "About Us". The Order of Australia Association. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
^ Wade, Matt (20 May 2022). "From battlers to basket weavers: a guide to Australia's voter types". The Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
^ "'Say g'day to the quiet Britons': Scott Morrison congratulates Boris Johnson on win". SBS News. 13 December 2019. Retrieved 21 December 2019.
Sky News Australia argued that the Liberals should support the construction of a nuclear power industry, as an alternative to fossil fuels, to win back quiet Australians who had deserted the party for teal independents who campaigned for action on anthropogenic climate change.[20]
"Knock-on effect: Greens to target 'quiet Australians' with winning campaign template"
The Australian Financial Review used data from the Australian Election Study to define Quiet Australians as being "increasingly disaffected with the political system, and that Education surpassed income as the demographic characteristic most correlated with a swing to either major party". Moreover, the "election also saw the re-emergence of religion as a political force".[14] ABC's Q&A's panelists discussed the 2019 election results in an episode titled "First Australians and Quiet Australians".[15]
^ a b "Scott Morrison credits 'quiet Australians' for 'miracle' election victory". The Guardian. 19 May 2019. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
After the election, media outlets attempted to explain the result by again invoking the quiet Australians:
^ Grant, Stan (21 May 2019). "Scott Morrison Won Australia's Election Against All Odds. It Shouldn't Have Come as a Surprise". Foreign Policy.
Jones, Anna (18 May 2019). "2019 Australian election: As it happened". BBC News. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
The Order of Australia Association uses the term "Quiet Australians" for its collection of stories embodied within the service rendered by award recipients to serve as a national resource to inspire and educate Australians.[16]
Murphy, Katharine (10 May 2022). "If the last campaign targeted the quiet Australians, this time Morrison is appealing to the anxious ones". The Guardian. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
Grant, Stan (21 May 2019). "Scott Morrison Won Australia's Election Against All Odds. It Shouldn't Have Come as a Surprise". Foreign Policy.
Media outlets have been investigating who the Quiet Australians might be. The Australian referred to voters who ignored messaging that "presumed to tell them how to think and what to do" and voted for a Prime Minister that "spoke not over but right to them".[12] SBS News stated that "They don't make a lot of noise online or call into radio stations, they don't campaign in the streets or protest outside parliament".[13]
"If the last campaign targeted the quiet Australians, this time Morrison is appealing to the anxious ones"
Ransley, Ellen (12 May 2022). "Josh Frydenberg says Morrison government putting faith in 'quiet majority'". news.com.au. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
^ Murphy, Katharine (10 May 2022). "If the last campaign targeted the quiet Australians, this time Morrison is appealing to the anxious ones". The Guardian. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
The Guardian argued that while in the previous election Morrison targeted quiet Australians, this time he was instead appealing to anxious Australian parents by focusing on transgender people in a "culture war"[19]
^ Seo, Bo (24 May 2019). "'Quiet Australians' are disaffected and divided". The Australian Financial Review. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 27 May 2019.
"Going nuclear will help the Liberals win back the 'quiet Australians' who deserted the party for the Teals"
Peter Hartcher wrote in Sydney Morning Herald that "the quiet Australians spoke and they said 'enough.'" Hartcher argued that Morrison had tried to transform the Liberals into a right wing populist party and thus had lost the support of fiscal conservatives and liberals to teals, while at the same time Morrison's failures of crisis leadership had lost working-class and middle-class seats to Labor. Hartcher identified all these groups as quiet Australians.[22]
^ Hartcher, Peter (21 May 2022). "The quiet Australians spoke and they said 'enough'". The Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
Bramston, Troy (8 October 2019). "Rise of the quiet achiever". The Weekend Australian. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 5 January 2020.
"'Say g'day to the quiet Britons': Scott Morrison congratulates Boris Johnson on win". SBS News. 13 December 2019. Retrieved 21 December 2019.
In the leadup to the election, media outlets and politicians invoked the Quiet Australians:
"Scott Morrison credits 'quiet Australians' for 'miracle' election victory". The Guardian. 19 May 2019. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
This is, this is the best country in the world in which to live. It is those Australians that we have been working for, for the last five and a half years since we came to Government, under Tony Abbott's leadership back in 2013. It has been those Australians who have worked hard every day, they have their dreams, they have their aspirations; to get a job, to get an apprenticeship, to start a business, to meet someone amazing. To start a family, to buy a home, to work hard and provide the best you can for your kids. To save your retirement and to ensure that when you're in your retirement, that you can enjoy it because you've worked hard for it.These are the quiet Australians who have won a great victory tonight.
^ "Speech Sydney". Prime Minister of Australia. 18 May 2019. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
Cousens, Daisy (1 June 2022). "Going nuclear will help the Liberals win back the 'quiet Australians' who deserted the party for the Teals". Sky News Australia. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
Seo, Bo (24 May 2019). "'Quiet Australians' are disaffected and divided". The Australian Financial Review. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 27 May 2019.
The term "The Quiet Australians" has been referenced by media outlets and commentators.[2][8][9] Stan Grant wrote that "Retirees, middle-class parents, and those dependent on the mining industry for their livelihoods all felt they were in the firing line. Christian leaders now say that religious freedom was a sleeper issue that turned votes in critical marginal seats. Throughout the world, long-silent voices are making themselves heard and it is shaking up politics as usual. People are saying they want to belong and they want their leaders to put them first".[10] The Guardian compared Morrison's Quiet Australians to Richard Nixon's "silent majority."[11]
The Guardian commented on the Greens campaign strategy of mass door-knocking and conversations with voters, reporting that the Greens planned to repeat this "social work" strategy to target quiet Australians.[23]
^ "Scott Morrison looking forward to being 'a quiet Australian' after federal election loss". ABC (Australia). 26 May 2022. Retrieved 12 June 2022.
Nunn, Gary (30 July 2019). "How good are quiet Australians! ScoMo's language legacy". The Guardian. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Tally Room". Australian Electoral Commission.
Livingston, Angus (9 May 2019). "Morrison bids for quiet australians". The Canberra Times. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
"'Say g'day to the quiet Britons': Scott Morrison congratulates Boris Johnson on win"
^ Bramston, Troy (8 October 2019). "Rise of the quiet achiever". The Weekend Australian. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 5 January 2020.
^ Osborne, Paul (18 May 2022). "Federal election 2022: Bulldozer PM gets quiet Australians cranky". perthnow. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
"Quiet Australians heard loud and clear in Coalition election win"
"Josh Frydenberg says Morrison government putting faith in 'quiet majority'"
The Sydney Morning Herald published an opinion piece on various types of voters in Australia, and quoted Rodney Tiffen, a Sydney University political science professor, who identified the label as more of a tactical grouping and an assertion that the loudest opinions may not be the majority, rather than a distinct group. The article compared the quiet Australians with the "Canberra bubble" - a term for political insiders who are out of touch with the expectations of mainstream Australian society.[18]
Hartcher, Peter (21 May 2022). "The quiet Australians spoke and they said 'enough'". The Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
Smee, Ben (4 June 2022). "Knock-on effect: Greens to target 'quiet Australians' with winning campaign template". The Guardian. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
^ Cousens, Daisy (1 June 2022). "Going nuclear will help the Liberals win back the 'quiet Australians' who deserted the party for the Teals". Sky News Australia. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
"Scott Morrison looking forward to being 'a quiet Australian' after federal election loss"
^ "First Australians and Quiet Australians". ABC. 27 May 2019.
"Morrison bids for 'quiet Australian' vote". SBS News. 9 May 2019. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 27 May 2019.
Wade, Matt (20 May 2022). "From battlers to basket weavers: a guide to Australia's voter types". The Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
^ Rennie, Susan (15 January 2019). "We are not anti-Australia Day, just not on January 26". The Age.
"Scott Morrison looking forward to being 'a quiet Australian' after federal election loss". ABC (Australia). 26 May 2022. Retrieved 12 June 2022.
Rennie, Susan (15 January 2019). "We are not anti-Australia Day, just not on January 26". The Age.
"The quiet Australians" is an expression that was used by Australian politician Scott Morrisonwhen his Liberal/National Coalition unexpectedly won the 2019 Australian federal election on 18 May 2019, meaning Morrison would continue as Prime Minister of Australia.[1][2] Describing the outcome as a miracle, Morrison stated that "the quiet Australians ... have won a great victory":[3]
"Speech Sydney". Prime Minister of Australia. 18 May 2019. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
Senior Liberal MP and Treasurer Josh Frydenberg played down polls suggesting he was in danger of losing the blue-ribbon (very safe Liberal) seat of Kooyong, by saying “There are many – as the Prime Minister calls them – quiet Australians out there.”[17] Frydenberg ended up losing the seat to teal independent Monique Ryan.
^ "ScoMo's quiet Australians reject Labor's big government dogma". Australian Financial Review. 20 May 2019. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
^ Overington, Caroline (22 May 2019). "Quiet Australians heard loud and clear in Coalition election win". The Australian. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 27 May 2019.
This page was last edited on 11 March 2023, at 11:55 (UTC).
"We are not anti-Australia Day, just not on January 26"
Morrison used this term prior to the election stating "Too many of us have been quiet for too long and it's time to speak up", and "To those quiet Australians who are out there, now is not the time to turn back".[4][5] After the election, he compared Quiet Australians to Robert Menzies's "forgotten people" and John Howard's "battlers".[6] In December, when congratulating Boris Johnson for winning the 2019 United Kingdom general election, Morrison asked him to "say g'day to the quiet Britons for us".[7]
Osborne, Paul (18 May 2022). "Federal election 2022: Bulldozer PM gets quiet Australians cranky". perthnow. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
3 years later, the result of the 2022 Australian federal election was a loss for Morrison's Coalition. The Opposition Labor Party formed majority government, with Anthony Albanese as the new Prime Minister. The Australian Greens had unprecedented success, and several Liberal seats were lost to teal independents.[citation needed]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Tally Room". Australian Electoral Commission.
^ Jones, Anna (18 May 2019). "2019 Australian election: As it happened". BBC News. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
Overington, Caroline (22 May 2019). "Quiet Australians heard loud and clear in Coalition election win". The Australian. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 27 May 2019.
^ "Morrison bids for 'quiet Australian' vote". SBS News. 9 May 2019. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 27 May 2019.
^ Livingston, Angus (9 May 2019). "Morrison bids for quiet australians". The Canberra Times. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
"Scott Morrison Won Australia's Election Against All Odds. It Shouldn't Have Come as a Surprise"
"ScoMo's quiet Australians reject Labor's big government dogma". Australian Financial Review. 20 May 2019. Archived from the original on 28 December 2020. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
^ Smee, Ben (4 June 2022). "Knock-on effect: Greens to target 'quiet Australians' with winning campaign template". The Guardian. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
Morrison stepped down as Liberal leader and commented on his election loss, saying he looked forward to going back to being a quiet Australian in the shire of Sydney.[24]
^ Ransley, Ellen (12 May 2022). "Josh Frydenberg says Morrison government putting faith in 'quiet majority'". news.com.au. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
There is no heir to the barony.The heir presumptive to the baronetcy is the present holder's fourth cousin, Peter Baring (born 1939). He is a great-great-grandson of the Right Reverend Charles Baring, younger son of the second Baronet.The heir presumptive's heir apparent is his son, Samuel Nigel Baring (born 1987).
2Titleholders											Toggle Titleholders subsection																					2.1Baring baronets, of Larkbeer (1793)																											2.2Barons Northbrook (1866)																											2.3Earls of Northbrook (1876)																											2.4Barons Northbrook (1866; reverted)
Lord Northbrook's eldest son Thomas, the second Baron, was Viceroy of India from 1872 to 1876. In that year he was created Viscount Baring, of Lee in the County of Kent, and Earl of Northbrook, in the County of Southampton. Both titles were in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. On his death, the titles passed to his eldest son Francis George, second Earl. He sat as a Member of Parliament for Winchester and Biggleswade. The second Earl was childless, and on his death in 1929, the viscountcy and earldom became extinct. He was succeeded in the baronetcy and barony by his first cousin Francis Arthur, who became the fourth Baron Northbrook. Francis Arthur was the son of the Hon. Francis Baring (1850–1915), third son of the first Baron and a partner in Barings Bank.
Baron Northbrook, of Stratton in the County of Southampton, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created in 1866 for the Liberal politician and former Chancellor of the Exchequer, Sir Francis Baring, 3rd Baronet. The holders of the barony represent the genealogically senior branch of the prominent Baring family. The name Northbrook is derived from a tithing of the local parish.[1]
The holders of the barony descend from Francis Baring, whose father had emigrated to Great Britain from Germany. Francis was the founder of the family firm that grew into Barings Bank. The firm increased in wealth and influence to the point that, on 29 May 1793, Francis was created a baronet, of Larkbeer in the County of Devon, in the Baronetage of Great Britain. His eldest son Thomas became the second Baronet, also representing Chipping Wycombe and Hampshire in the House of Commons. Sir Thomas was succeeded by his eldest son Francis, third Baronet. Sir Francis held office as Chancellor of the Exchequer and First Lord of the Admiralty. In 1866 he was raised to the Peerage of the United Kingdom as Baron Northbrook, of Stratton in the County of Southampton.
The Baring family is one of the most ennobled in the United Kingdom and numerous other members of the family have gained distinction. The first Baron Northbrook's uncle (his father's next youngest brother) was Alexander Baring, 1st Baron Ashburton, two of his first cousins (both sons of Henry Baring, his father's next youngest brother after Lord Ashburton) were Edward Baring, 1st Baron Revelstoke, and Evelyn Baring, 1st Earl of Cromer, and one of his first cousins once removed (third son of Lord Cromer) was Evelyn Baring, 1st Baron Howick of Glendale. Also, the Right Reverend Charles Baring, Bishop of Durham, was his younger brother. The Bishop's son Thomas was a banker and Conservative politician.
Kidd, Charles, ed. (1903). Debrett's peerage, baronetage, knightage, and companionage. London: Dean and son. p. 674.
This page was last edited on 1 July 2022, at 05:20 (UTC).
Wikipedia articles incorporating an LRPP template without an unnamed parameter
"'The parish of Micheldever', A History of the County of Hampshire: Volume 3 pp. 390-394"
As of 2017[update] the titles are held by the fourth Baron's grandson, the sixth Baron, who succeeded his father in 1990. Lord Northbrook is one of the ninety elected hereditary peers who remain in the House of Lords after the passing of the House of Lords Act 1999, and sits on the Conservative benches.
Sir Francis Thornhill Baring, 3rd Baronet (1796–1866) (created Baron Northbrook in 1866)
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"'The parish of Micheldever', A History of the County of Hampshire: Volume 3 pp. 390-394". University of London & History of Parliament Trust. 1908. Retrieved 4 January 2009.
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"'The parish of Micheldever', A History of the County of Hampshire: Volume 3 pp. 390-394". University of London & History of Parliament Trust. 1908. Retrieved 4 January 2009.
Thomas George Baring, 2nd Baron Northbrook (1826–1904) (created Earl of Northbrook in 1876)
Status and Respectability in the Cape Colony, 1750–1870: A Tragedy of Manners. Robert Ross, David Anderson. Cambridge University Press. 1999. ISBN 0-521-62122-4.
A.L. Harrington: The Parliament of the Cape of Good Hope, with special reference to party politics 1872–1910. Government Printer, 1973.
^ Molteno, P. A. The Life and Times of John Charles Molteno. Comprising a History of Representative Institutions and Responsible Government at the Cape. Volume II. London: Smith, Elder & Co., Waterloo Place, 1900. p. 214
This largely changed after the 1967 Australian referendum, which allowed the federal government to count Indigenous Australians in the census, and to ensure that their voting rights were in fact respected across the country.
RFM Immelman: Men of Good Hope, 1804–1954. CTCC: Cape Town, 1955. Chapter 6 The Anti-convict Agitation. p. 154.
From the middle of the 19th century, the United Kingdom began to introduce systems of responsible government to the colonial governments of its settler colonies including in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. These systems were heavily based upon the system that had developed in the United Kingdom itself with a bicameral legislature and an executive responsible to the Lower House.
Lipschutz, Mark R.; Kent Rasmussen, R. (1989). African Historical Biographies. ISBN 9780520066113.
After the Rebellions of 1837–1838 in the Canadas, Lord Durham was appointed governor general of British North America and had the task of examining the issues and determining how to defuse tensions. In his report, one of his recommendations was that colonies which were developed enough should be granted "responsible government". This term specifically meant the policy that British-appointed governors should bow to the will of elected colonial assemblies.
In 1934, the General Assembly of Newfoundland followed through with recommendations made in a royal commission, suspending responsible government in Newfoundland. From 1934 to 1949, Newfoundland was governed by the Newfoundland Commission of Government, a body that was subordinate to the British government. Responsible government in Newfoundland was restored in 1949, after it joined the Canadian Confederation.
Ritchie, Holly. ""For Christ and Covenant:" A Movement for Equal Consideration in Early Nineteenth Century Nova Scotia." Master's Thesis. Saint Mary's University, 2017. pp. 112–116. http://library2.smu.ca/handle/01/27387#.XMmNDrdKg_4
Prior to European colonisation, the Australian continent was inhabited by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island peoples, who had their own traditional forms of self-government. They were divided into various nations and clans and, in some cases, large alliances between several nations. In 1770, Royal Navy officer James Cook sailed along the east coast of Australia and claimed it for King George III, and in 1788 the First Fleet led by Arthur Phillip established the first permanent European settlement in Australia at Port Jackson. The settlers gradually expanded across the continent, displacing the indigenous population, until they had established six colonies; the legal system of these colonies were based on the common law system.[citation needed]
Under its previous system of representative government, the Ministers of the Cape Government reported directly to the British Imperial Governor, and not to the locally elected representatives in the Cape Parliament. Among Cape citizens of all races, growing anger at their powerlessness in influencing unpopular imperial decisions had repeatedly led to protests and rowdy political meetings – especially during the early "Convict Crisis" of the 1840s.A popular political movement for responsible government soon emerged, under local leader John Molteno. A protracted struggle was then conducted over the ensuing years as the movement (known informally as "the responsibles") grew increasingly powerful, and used their parliamentary majority to put pressure on the British Governor, withholding public finances from him, and conducting public agitations. Not everyone favoured responsible government though, and pro-imperial press outlets even accused the movement of constituting "crafts and assaults of the devil".[10]
Supporters believed that the most effective means of instituting responsible government was simply to change the section of the constitution which prevented government officials from being elected to parliament or members of parliament from serving in executive positions. The conflict therefore centred on the changing of this specific section. "Although responsible government merely required an amendment to s.79 of the constitution, it transpired only after nearly twenty years in 1872 when the so-called "responsibles" under Molteno were able to command sufficient support in both houses to secure the passage of the necessary bill."[11] Finally, with a parliamentary majority and with the Colonial Office and new Governor Henry Barkly won over, Molteno instituted responsible government, making the Ministers directly responsible to the Cape Parliament, and becoming the Cape's first Prime Minister.[12]
^ A.L. Harrington: The Parliament of the Cape of Good Hope, with special reference to party politics 1872–1910. Government Printer, 1973.
Phillip A. Buckner, The Transition to Responsible Government: British Policy in British North America, 1815–1850 (1985) ch. 4
Phyllis Lewsen: The First Crises in Responsible Government in the Cape Colony. University of The Witwatersrand / Argief-jaarboek vir Suid-Afrikaanse geskiedenis. 1940/3.
^ GE Devenish (1978). Our legal heritage. De Rebus Procuratoriis, p. 486. University of the Western Cape.
^ Ritchie, Holly. ""For Christ and Covenant:" A Movement for Equal Consideration in Early Nineteenth Century Nova Scotia." Master's Thesis. Saint Mary's University, 2017. pp. 112–116. http://library2.smu.ca/handle/01/27387#.XMmNDrdKg_4
In 1808 there was a military coup d'état known as the Rum Rebellion, which deposed Governor Bligh and briefly established military rule over the Colony of New South Wales until a new Governor (Lachlan Macquarie) was appointed and sent from Britain. However this did nothing towards establishing responsible or representative government.
At first, the Australian colonies were run by autocratic Governors. They were appointed by the British monarch, but in practice the Governors exercised vast executive and legislative powers with very little oversight. This was due to the fact that most of the early colonies were penal colonies, the great distance from the United Kingdom and slow communication, as well as the enormous size and of the Australian colonies which were largely unexplored by Europeans and sparsely settled by them.[citation needed]
First Responsible Government in the British Empire.The first Executive Council chosen exclusively from the party having a majority in the representative branch of a colonial legislature was formed in Nova Scotia on 2 February 1848. Following a vote of want of confidence in the preceding Council, James Boyle Uniacke, who had moved the resolution, became Attorney General and leader of the Government. Joseph Howe, the long-time campaigner for this "Peaceable Revolution", became Provincial Secretary. Other members of the Council were Hugh Bell, Wm. F. Desbarres, Lawrence O.C. Doyle, Herbert Huntingdon, James McNab, Michael Tobin, and George R. Young.
After federation, the Commonwealth Franchise Act of 1902 barred Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people from voting in federal elections unless they were already eligible to vote in their state. Queensland explicitly barred Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people from voting until the 1960s, while Western Australia barred Aboriginal people unless they successfully applied to become citizens. As a result, most Aboriginal people across the country were prevented from voting, including those who in theory had the right. Later, the 1962 Commonwealth Electoral Act gave all Aboriginal people the option to enrol to vote, but still most were not able to exercise their rights.
In the early 1860s, the Prussian Prime Minister Otto von Bismarck was involved in a bitter dispute with the Liberals, who sought to institute a system of responsible government modeled on that of Britain. Bismarck, who strongly opposed that demand, managed to deflect the pressure by embarking energetically and successfully on the unification of Germany. The Liberals, who were also strong German nationalists, backed Bismarck's unification efforts and tacitly accepted that the Constitution of Imperial Germany, crafted by Bismarck, did not include a responsible government – the Chancellor being accountable solely to the emperor and needing no parliamentary confidence. Germany gained a responsible government only with the Weimar Republic and more securely with the creation of the Federal Republic of Germany. Historians account the lack of responsible government in the formative decades of united Germany as one of the factors contributing to the prolonged weakness of German democratic institutions, lasting also after such a government was finally instituted.
1855 – Newfoundland (suspended from 1934 to 1949),[note 1] the Colony of New South Wales, and the Colony of Victoria
In time, the granting of responsible government became the first step on the road to complete independence. Canada gradually gained greater and greater autonomy over a considerable period of time through inter imperial and commonwealth diplomacy, including the British North America Act of 1867, the Statute of Westminster of 1931, and even as late as the patriation of the Constitution Act in 1982 (see Constitution of Canada).
^ Lipschutz, Mark R.; Kent Rasmussen, R. (1989). African Historical Biographies. ISBN 9780520066113.
After the formation of elected legislative assemblies starting with Nova Scotia in 1758, governors and their executive councils did not require the consent of elected legislators in order to carry out all their roles.It was only in the decades leading up to Canadian Confederation in 1867 that the governing councils of those British North American colonies became responsible to the elected representatives of the people.[4]
Lastly, the head of state is in turn required to effectuate their executive power only through these responsible ministers. They must never attempt to set up a "shadow" government of executives or advisors and attempt to use them as instruments of government, or to rely upon their "unofficial" advice. They are bound to take no decision or action that is put into effect under the colour of their executive power without that action being as a result of the counsel and advisement of their responsible ministers. Their ministers are required to counsel them (i.e., explain to them and be sure they understand any issue that they will be called upon to decide) and to form and have recommendations for them (i.e., their advice or advisement) to choose from, which are the ministers' formal, reasoned recommendations as to what course of action should be taken.
Forsey, Eugene A. (2016). How Canadians Govern Themselves (PDF) (9 ed.). Ottawa: Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Canada. p. 3. ISBN 978-0-660-04488-0. Retrieved 9 March 2019.
The Eureka Rebellion and events in Victoria resonated around the Australian colonies, which also had their own agitators for change. South Australia was quick to pass universal male suffrage, and Victoria and New South Wales followed soon after. By the end of the 1850s, all the Australian colonies and New Zealand had achieved responsible self-government, aside from Western Australia which took until 1890.
^ Forsey, Eugene A. (2016). How Canadians Govern Themselves (PDF) (9 ed.). Ottawa: Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Canada. p. 3. ISBN 978-0-660-04488-0. Retrieved 9 March 2019.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Responsible government" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ Phillip A. Buckner, The Transition to Responsible Government: British Policy in British North America, 1815–1850 (1985) ch. 4
Forsey, Eugene A. (1981). How Canadians Govern Themselves. Government of Canada. p. 58.
Find sources: "Responsible government" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Victorian Electronic Democracy, Final Report – Glossary". 28 July 2005. Archived from the original on 13 December 2007. Retrieved 14 December 2007.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Victorian Electronic Democracy, Final Report – Glossary". 28 July 2005. Archived from the original on 13 December 2007. Retrieved 14 December 2007.
1921 – Malta (suspended from 1936 to 1947, and from 1959 to 1962)
Responsible government was a major element of the gradual development of Canada towards independence. The concept of responsible government is associated in Canada more with self-government than with parliamentary accountability; hence there is the notion that the Dominion of Newfoundland "gave up responsible government" when it suspended its self-governing status in 1933, as a result of financial problems. It did not regain responsible government until it became a province of Canada in 1949.[3]
1859 – Colony of Queensland (separated from New South Wales in that year with self-government from the beginning)
The Northern Territory was originally part of South Australia, but transferred to the Australian Commonwealth Government in 1911. It then lost responsible self-government (although residents could still vote in federal elections) and only gained it back in 1974. Likewise, the Australian Capital Territory was originally part of New South Wales. It was transferred to the Commonwealth Government in 1911 and lost responsible self-government until 1989.
Hamer, David J. (2004). Can Responsible Government Survive in Australia? (PDF). Parliament of Australia.
The ensuing period saw an economic recovery, a massive growth in exports and an expansion of the colony's frontiers. Despite political complications that arose from time to time (such as an ill-fated scheme by the British Colonial Office to enforce a confederation in Southern Africa in 1878, and tensions with the Afrikaner-dominated Government of Transvaal over trade and railroad construction), economic and social progress in the Cape Colony continued at a steady pace until a renewed attempt to extend British control over the hinterland caused the outbreak of the Anglo-Boer Wars in 1899.[13]
Responsible government of parliamentary accountability manifests itself in several ways. Ministers account to Parliament for their decisions and for the performance of their departments. This requirement to make announcements and to answer questions in Parliament means that ministers must have the privileges of the "floor", which are only granted to those who are members of either house of Parliament.[clarification needed]Secondly, and most importantly, although ministers are officially appointed by the authority of the head of state and can theoretically be dismissed at the pleasure of the sovereign, they concurrently retain their office subject to their holding the confidence of the lower house of Parliament. When the lower house has passed a motion of no confidence in the government, the government must immediately resign or submit itself to the electorate in a new general election.
An important feature of the Cape Colony under responsible government was that it was the only state in southern Africa (and one of very few in the world at the time) to have a non-racial system of voting.[14][15]Later however – following the South Africa Act 1909 to form the Union of South Africa – this multi-racial universal suffrage was steadily eroded, and eventually abolished by the Apartheid government in 1948.
Despatches from Sir F.B. Head, relative to Canada, with Answers from Secretary of State
The colony of New Brunswick soon followed in May 1848[8] when Lieutenant Governor Edmund Walker Head brought in a more balanced representation of Members of the Legislative Assembly to the Executive Council and ceded more powers to that body.
Despatches from Sir F.B. Head, relative to Canada, with Answers from Secretary of State. Parliament of the United Kingdom. 1839.
Salles, Denis (2011). "Responsibility based environmental governance". S.A.P.I.EN.S. 4 (1). Retrieved 15 June 2011.
Responsible government was implemented in several colonies of British North America (present day Canada), between 1848 and 1850, with the executive council formulating policy with the assistance of the legislative branch, the legislature voting approval or disapproval, and the appointed governor enacting those policies that it had approved. This replaced the previous system whereby the governor took advice from an executive council, and used the legislature chiefly to raise money.[2]
The British colonial forces overran the stockade, capturing or killing dozens of miners and bringing many to Melbourne for trial. However, mass public support led to the miners' release and, within a year, most of their demands had been met, including responsible self-government and universal male suffrage for the Colony of Victoria.
"'A Fool for a Client': The Trial of Joseph Howe"
1856 – Colony of New Zealand and the Colony of Tasmania
Responsible government is a conception of a system of government that embodies the principle of parliamentary accountability, the foundation of the Westminster system of parliamentary democracy.[1] Governments (the equivalent of the executive branch) in Westminster democracies are responsible to parliament rather than to the monarch, or, in a colonial context, to the imperial government, and in a republican context, to the president, either in full or in part. If the parliament is bicameral, then the government is responsible first to the parliament's lower house, which is more representative than the upper house, as it usually has more members and they are always directly elected.
The following is a list of British colonies, and the year when responsible government was established in the territory:
Finniss, B.T. (1886). The Constitutional History of South Australia During Twenty-One Years from the Foundation of the Settlement in 1836 to the Inauguration of Responsible Government in 1857 (PDF). Adelaide: W.C. Rigby.
The Cape Colony, in Southern Africa, was under responsible self-government from 1872 until 1910 when it became the Cape Province of the new Union of South Africa.[9]
GE Devenish (1978). Our legal heritage. De Rebus Procuratoriis, p. 486. University of the Western Cape.
Molteno, P. A. The Life and Times of John Charles Molteno. Comprising a History of Representative Institutions and Responsible Government at the Cape. London: Smith, Elder & Co., Waterloo Place, 1900.[ISBN missing]
1History in the British Empire											Toggle History in the British Empire subsection																					1.1Canada																								1.1.1Background																											1.1.2Implementation																														1.2Australia and New Zealand																								1.2.1Participation by women and indigenous people																														1.3Cape Colony																											1.4Former British colonies with responsible government
^ Despatches from Sir F.B. Head, relative to Canada, with Answers from Secretary of State. Parliament of the United Kingdom. 1839.
Rathgeber, Brent (2014). Irresponsible Government: The Decline of Parliamentary Democracy in Canada. Dundurn Press. ISBN 9781459728370.
The Constitutional History of South Australia During Twenty-One Years from the Foundation of the Settlement in 1836 to the Inauguration of Responsible Government in 1857
The Governor General, Lord Elgin, had serious misgivings about the bill but nonetheless assented to it despite demands from the Tories that he refuse to do so. Elgin was physically assaulted by an English-speaking mob for this, and the Montreal Parliament building was burned to the ground in the ensuing riots. Nonetheless, the Rebellion Losses Bill helped entrench responsible government into Canadian politics.
In the Province of Canada, responsible government was introduced with the ministry of Louis-Hippolyte LaFontaine and Robert Baldwin in spring 1848; it was put to the test in 1849, when Reformers in the legislature passed the Rebellion Losses Bill. This was a law that provided compensation to French-Canadians who suffered losses during the Rebellions of 1837–1838 in Lower-Canada.
Molteno, P. A. The Life and Times of John Charles Molteno. Comprising a History of Representative Institutions and Responsible Government at the Cape. Volume II. London: Smith, Elder & Co., Waterloo Place, 1900. p. 214
In the aftermath of the American Revolution, based on the perceived shortcomings of virtual representation, the British government became more sensitive to unrest in its remaining colonies with large populations of European-descended colonists. Elected assemblies were introduced to both Upper Canada and Lower Canada with the Constitutional Act of 1791. Many reformers thought that these assemblies should have some control over the executive power, leading to political unrest between the governors and assemblies in both Upper and Lower Canada. The Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada Sir Francis Bond Head wrote in one dispatch to London that if responsible government were implemented "Democracy, in the worst possible Form, will prevail in our Colonies."[5]
The early colonists, coming mostly from the United Kingdom (which by 1801 included Ireland), were familiar with the Westminster system and made efforts to reform local government in order to increase the opportunity for ordinary men to participate. The Governors and London therefore set in motion a gradual process of establishing a Westminster system in the colonies, not so fast as to get ahead of population or economic growth, nor so slow as to provoke clamouring for revolutionary change as happened in the American Revolutionary War and threatened in the Rebellions of 1837–1838 in Canada. This first took the form of appointed or partially elected Legislative Councils.
This page was last edited on 3 December 2022, at 03:45 (UTC).
^ Phyllis Lewsen: The First Crises in Responsible Government in the Cape Colony. University of The Witwatersrand / Argief-jaarboek vir Suid-Afrikaanse geskiedenis. 1940/3.
In New Zealand, the English and te reo maori versions of the 1840 Treaty of Waitangi had different wording, which fueled disagreement over how the land should be governed, owned and sold. This was one of the causes of the later New Zealand Wars (1845-1872) over land and governance, in which Maori fought on both sides. These events fueled debate in the 1860s about Maori representation in the colonial Parliament. As a result, Maori men were granted legal suffrage in 1867 (12 years before European New Zealanders) through specially reserved Maori seats which only Maori could vote in, although voting turnout was very low until the 1880s and 1890s.
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
^ In 1934, the General Assembly of Newfoundland followed through with recommendations made in a royal commission, suspending responsible government in Newfoundland. From 1934 to 1949, Newfoundland was governed by the Newfoundland Commission of Government, a body that was subordinate to the British government. Responsible government in Newfoundland was restored in 1949, after it joined the Canadian Confederation.
^ Beck, J.M. (Spring 1974). "'A Fool for a Client': The Trial of Joseph Howe". Acadiensis. 3: 27–28.
^ RFM Immelman: Men of Good Hope, 1804–1954. CTCC: Cape Town, 1955. Chapter 6 The Anti-convict Agitation. p. 154.
^ "Responsible Government and Ministerial Responsibility". Parliament of Canada. October 2015. Retrieved 7 November 2016.
Female suffrage (and thus universal suffrage) was gained in 1890s-1910s in Australia and New Zealand (1893), allowing the other half of the population to participate in responsible representative government.
The most violent move towards responsible government occurred in the Colony of Victoria during the 1850s where there was growing discontent and civil disobedience, especially in the inland gold fields areas. This culminated in the 1854 Eureka Rebellion near Ballarat. 190 miners armed themselves, erected a stockade and raised the Southern Cross Flag. They demanded an end to taxation (via an expensive miner's license) without representation, as well as upkeep of the area' roads and the right to vote in colonial elections.
In Australia, during the colonial period, some Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people may have theoretically had the right to vote in colonial elections. However, in practice they were almost always unable to exercise this right due to living a traditional lifestyle in remote areas uncontacted by the colony, or being affected by the Frontier Wars, or due to racial discrimination or property requirements for voting.
1.2Australia and New Zealand																								1.2.1Participation by women and indigenous people
"Responsible Government and Ministerial Responsibility". Parliament of Canada. October 2015. Retrieved 7 November 2016.
Beck, J.M. (Spring 1974). "'A Fool for a Client': The Trial of Joseph Howe". Acadiensis. 3: 27–28.
