I have no spurTo prick the sides of my intent, but onlyVaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself,And falls on the other.William Shakespeare, Macbeth (1605), Act I, scene 7, line 25
If you wish to reach the highest, begin at the lowest.
Thomas Southerne, The Persian Prince, or the Loyal Brother (1682), Act I, scene 1
If any man stopped and asked himself whether he’s ever held a truly personal desire, he’d find the answer. He’d see that all his wishes, his efforts, his dreams, his ambitions are motivated by other men. He’s not even struggling for material wealth, but for the second-hander’s delusion—prestige. A stamp of approval, not his own. He can find no joy in the struggle and no joy when he has succeeded. He can’t say about a single thing: this is what I wanted because I wanted it, not because it made my neighbors gape at me. Then he wonders why he’s unhappy.Ayn Rand, Howard Roark describing "second-hand men" in The Fountainhead (1996), p. 607
Gautama Buddha, Saṃyutta Nikāya, Book 2, Sutta 12, Verse 22, as translated by Bhikkhu Bodhi (Wisdom Publications: 2000), p. 553
The pugilist, whose highest ambition is to pound and bruise human flesh, and bear off from the prize-ring the victory and money staked thereon, subjects himself to the severest physical training in order to secure those ends, and naturally enough he always develops into a powerful animal, but an animal of less value than the horse or mule, whose powers of body contribute so much to human comfort.
John Milton, Paradise Lost (1667; 1674), Book IX, line 168
David Hume, The History of England (1754-62), Volume I, Part IV, "William the Conqueror"
Arranged alphabetically by author or source:A · B · C · D · E · F · G · H · I · J · K · L · M · N · O · P · Q · R · S · T · U · V · W · X · Y · Z · Hoyt's New Cyclopedia of Practical Quotations · See also · External links
I think that all ambitions are lawful except those which climb upwards on the miseries or credulities of mankind. All intellectual and artistic ambitions are permissible, up to and even beyond the limit of prudent sanity. They can hurt no one. If they are mad, then so much the worse for the artist. Indeed, as virtue is said to be, such ambitions are their own reward.Joseph Conrad, A Personal Record (1912), "A Familiar Preface"
Ambition, Interest, Pride without control,And Jealousy, the jaundice of the soul;Revenge, the bloody minister of ill,With all the lean tormentors of the will.John Dryden, The Hind and the Panther (1687), Pt. III
Si vis ad summum progredi ab infimo ordire.If you wish to reach the highest, begin at the lowest.Syrus, Maxims
Ambition is the last refuge of the failure.Oscar Wilde, "Phrases and Philosophies for the use of the Young", in The Chameleon (Oxford, December 1894)
Ben Jonson, Catiline His Conspiracy (1611), Act III, scene ii
The lust for power, which of all human vices was found in its most concentrated form in the Roman people as a whole, first established its victory in a few powerful individuals, and then crushed the rest of an exhausted country beneath the yoke of slavery.For when can that lust for power in arrogant hearts come to rest until, after passing from one office to another, it arrives at sovereignty? Now there would be no occasion for this continuous progress if ambition were not all-powerful; and the essential context for ambition is a people corrupted by greed and sensuality.Augustine, The City of God (c. 400), as translated by H. Bettenson (1972), Book 1, Chapter 31, p. 42
Benjamin Franklin, "On True Happiness", Pennsylvania Gazette, 20 November 1735
By low ambition and the thirst of praise.William Cowper, Table Talk, line 591
The man who seeks one thing in life, and but one,May hope to achieve it before life be done;But he who seeks all things, wherever he goes,Only reaps from the hopes which around him he sowsA harvest of barren regrets.Owen Meredith (Lord Lytton), Lucile (1860), Part I, Canto II, Stanza 8
At court, far from regarding ambition as a sin, people regard it as a virtue, or if it passes for a vice, then it is regarded as the vice of great souls, and the vices of great souls are preferred to the virtues of the simple and the small.Louis Bourdaloue, as quoted in The Bourgeois: Catholicism vs. Capitalism in Eighteenth-Century France (1927), p. 137
Arouse your energy for the attainment of the as-yet-unattained, for the achievement of the as-yet-unachieved, for the realization of the as-yet-unrealized.Gautama Buddha, Saṃyutta Nikāya, Book 2, Sutta 12, Verse 22, as translated by Bhikkhu Bodhi (Wisdom Publications: 2000), p. 553
Things move violently to their place, and calmly in their place, so virtue in ambition is violent, in authority settled and calm.Francis Bacon, Essays (1625), "Of Great Place"
Be always displeased at what thou art, if thou desire to attain to what thou art not; for where thou hast pleased thyself, there thou abidest.Francis Quarles, Emblems, Book IV. Emblem 3
Too low they build who build beneath the stars.Edward Young, Night Thoughts (1742-1745), Night VIII, line 225
William H. Crogman, "The Importance of Correct Ideals" (1892), in Talks for the Times (1896), p. 273
Alexander Pope, An Essay on Man (1733-34), Epigram IV, line 74
This page was last edited on 10 June 2022, at 04:54.
Amil, "Can I Get A..." (1998), New York: Def Jam Recordings
The very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.William Shakespeare, Hamlet (1600-02), Act II, scene 2, line 264
Owen Meredith (Lord Lytton), Lucile (1860), Part I, Canto II, Stanza 8
Ambition first sprung from your blest abodes;The glorious fault of Angels and of Gods.Alexander Pope, Elegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady (1717)
In classical cultures, an ascended class had to justify itself before those now below in the social structure. But the culture revolution of our time has eliminated this need for class- as well as self-justification. Nevertheless, those below still seek to emulate the ascendant social class, without being convinced of its superiority.Philip Rieff, The Triumph of the Therapeutic (1966), chapter 2
John Denham, The Sophy: A Tragedy (1642), Act I, scene ii
Nathaniel Parker Willis, from a poem delivered at the Departure of the Senior Class of Yale College (1827)
Edmund Burke, Letters On a Regicide Peace (1796), No. 3
Ambition is like love, impatientBoth of delays and rivals.John Denham, The Sophy: A Tragedy (1642), Act I, scene ii
But what will not ambition and revengeDescend to? who aspires must down as lowAs high he soar'd, obnoxious first or lastTo basest things.John Milton, Paradise Lost (1667; 1674), Book IX, line 168
Ambition has its disappointments to sour us, but never the good fortune to satisfy us.Benjamin Franklin, "On True Happiness", Pennsylvania Gazette, 20 November 1735
William Shakespeare, Hamlet (1600-02), Act II, scene 2, line 264
Most people would succeed in small things, if they were not troubled with great ambitions.Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Drift-Wood, Table-Talk (1857)
They please, are pleas'd, they give to get esteemTill, seeming blest, they grow to what they seem.Oliver Goldsmith, The Traveller (1764), line 266
John Milton, Paradise Lost (1667; 1674), Book IV, line 92
The poor, by thinking unceasingly of money, reach the point of losing the spiritual advantages of non-possession, thereby sinking as low as the rich.E. M. Cioran, The Trouble with Being Born (1973)
Walter Scott, The Lay of the Last Minstrel (1805), Canto II, Stanza 10
Honoré de Balzac, The Girl with the Golden Eyes (1833)
Ambition should be spoken of as not the last, but the first infirmity of noble minds, of which they gradually purge themselves as they grow more mature.Alfred Austin, In Veronica's Garden (London: Macmillan and Co., 1895), p. 139
If at great things thou would'st arrive,Get riches first, get wealth, and treasure heap,Not difficult, if thou hearken to me;Riches are mine, fortune is in my hand,They whom I favor thrive in wealth amain,While virtue, valor, wisdom, sit in want.John Milton, Paradise Regained (1671), Book II, line 426
For the modern psychologist, … industry has remained as the only virtue—with its satellites, ambition and success—a conception of virtue which the Ancients would never have hesitated to relegate to the lowest of men, to pariahs and to slaves.Ludwig Klages, The Science of Character, W. Johnston, trans., p. 15
Ambition's debt is paid.William Shakespeare, Julius Cæsar (1599), Act III, scene 1, line 83
Whenever men are not obliged to fight from necessity, they fight from ambition; which is so powerful in human breasts, that it never leaves them no matter to what rank they rise. The reason is that nature has so created men that they are able to desire everything but are not able to attain everything.Niccolò Machiavelli, Discourses on Livy (1517), Book 1, Chapter 37
I am not unambitious. I am just too ambitious for what you call ambitions.James Richardson, Vectors: Aphorisms and Ten Second Essays (2001), #412
It will not be amiss to distinguish the three kinds and, as it were, grades of ambition in mankind. The first is of those who desire to extend their own power in their native country, a vulgar and degenerate kind. The second is of those who labor to extend the power and dominion of their country among men. This certainly has more dignity, though not less covetousness. But if a man endeavor to establish and extend the power and dominion of the human race itself over the universe, his ambition (if ambition it can be called) is without doubt both a more wholesome and a more noble thing than the other two.Francis Bacon, Novum Organum (1620), Book I, Aphorism 28
Cornel West, Speech in San Francisco: Democracy Matters (1 October 2004)
Glory ought to be the consequence, not the motive, of our actions; and although it happen not to attend the worthy deed, yet it is by no means the less fair for having missed the applause it deserved.Pliny, Letter 5
Alexander Pope, An Essay on Man (1733-34), Epistle I, line 157
“Nothing but ambition, nothing but the desire to get on, that's all there is in his soul,” she thought; “as for these lofty ideals, love of culture, religion, they are only so many tools for getting on.”Leo Tolstoy, Anna describing her husband, Anna Karenina, C. Garnett, trans. (New York: 2003), Part 2, Chapter 28, p. 192
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Christus, The Golden Legend (1872), p. II. A Village Church
Full of hopes beyond their power though not beyond their ambition.Thucydides, History of the Peloponnesian War (5th century BC), Book III, 39
To rank the effort above the prize may be called love.Confucius, Analects, 6.20
Danish proverb, in A Book of Proverbs, edited by Raymond Lamont_Brown (1970), p. 135
There are very few philosophers and artists who are absolutely detached from ambition and respect for power, from "people of position." And among those who are more delicate or more sated, snobism replaces ambition and respect for power in the same way superstition arises on the ruins of religious beliefs.Marcel Proust, notes to Sesame and Lilies by John Ruskin (1906)
Awake, my St. John! leave all meaner thingsTo low ambition and the pride of Kings.Alexander Pope, An Essay on Man (1733-1734), "Epistle I"
Almost all of them adopt convenient social, literary, or political prejudices so as to dispense with having to form an opinion of their own, just as they place their conscience in the shelter of common law, or of the commercial court. Having left home early in order to become remarkable men, they become mediocre, and crawl along the heights of society. Accordingly, their faces present us with this sour pallor; these false complexions, these dull, lined eyes, these talkative and sensual mouths where the observer recognizes the symptoms of the degeneration of thought and its turning round and round in the dull circle of specialization that kills the generative faculties of the brain, the gift of seeing the big picture, of generalizing and deducing.Honoré de Balzac, The Girl with the Golden Eyes (1833)
Love, a pleasant folly; ambition, a serious stupidity.Nicolas Chamfort, Maxims and Considerations, E. P. Mathers, trans. (1926), #158
Nor strive to wind ourselves too highFor sinful man beneath the sky.Christian Year, Morning
Ambition has no rest!Edward Bulwer-Lytton, Richelieu (1839), Act III, scene 1
Mark but my fall, and that that ruin'd me.Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away ambition.By that sin fell the angels; how can man then,The image of his Maker, hope to win by it?William Shakespeare, Henry VIII (c. 1613), Act III, scene 2, line 437
Ambition has but one reward for all:A little power, a little transient fame,A grave to rest in, and a fading name!William Winter, The Queen's Domain, line 90
On the summit see,The seals of office glitter in his eyes;He climbs, he pants, he grasps them! At his heels,Close at his heels, a demagogue ascends,And with a dexterous jerk soon twists him down,And wins them, but to lose them in his turn.William Cowper, The Task (1785), Book IV, line 58
Ambition fortifies the will of man to become ruler over other men: it operates with deception, cajolery, and violence, it is the action of impurity upon impurity.T. S. Eliot, Murder in the Cathedral (1935)
Licet ipsa vitium sit ambitio, frequenter tamen causa virtutum est.Though ambition in itself is a vice, yet it is often the parent of virtues.Quintilian, De Institutione Oratoria, II. 22
For when can that lust for power in arrogant hearts come to rest until, after passing from one office to another, it arrives at sovereignty? Now there would be no occasion for this continuous progress if ambition were not all-powerful; and the essential context for ambition is a people corrupted by greed and sensuality.
Kevin Rashid Johnson, Defying the Tomb: Selected Prison Writings and Art of Kevin "Rashid" Johnson. Kersplebedeb. 2010. p. 65-71. ISBN 1894946391.
John Milton, Paradise Lost (1667; 1674), Book I, line 263
Sublimi feriam sidera vertice.I strike the stars with my sublime head.Horace, Carmina, Book I. 1
Il gran rifiuto.The great refusal.(Supposed to refer to Celestine V., elected Pope in 1294, who resigned five months later).Dante Alighieri, Inferno, Canto III. LX
But wild Ambition loves to slide, not stand,And Fortune's ice prefers to Virtue's land.John Dryden, Absalom and Achitophel (1681), Part I, line 198
Ambition never comes to an end.Yoshida Kenkō, Tsurezure-Gusa (Essays in Idleness) (ca. 14th century)
Philip Rieff, The Triumph of the Therapeutic (1966), chapter 2
Men accept servility in order to acquire wealth; as if they could acquire anything of their own when they cannot even assert that they belong to themselves.Étienne de La Boétie, Discourse on Voluntary Servitude (1548)
Oh, sons of earth! attempt ye still to rise.By mountains pil'd on mountains to the skies?Heav'n still with laughter the vain toil surveys,And buries madmen in the heaps they raise.Alexander Pope, An Essay on Man (1733-34), Epigram IV, line 74
To endure is greater than to dare; to tire out hostile fortune; to be daunted by no difficulty; to keep heart when all have lost it; to go through intrigue spotless; and to forgo even ambition when the end is gained — who can say this is not greatness?William Makepeace Thackeray, The Virginians (1857-1859), Chapter 92
Who knows but He, whose hand the lightning forms.Who heaves old ocean, and who wings the storms,Pours fierce ambition in a Cæsar's mind.Alexander Pope, An Essay on Man (1733-34), Epistle I, line 157
The favorites of fortune or of fame topple from their pedestals before our eyes without diverting us from ambition.Vauvenargues, Reflections and Maxims, E. Lee, trans. (1903), p. 180
Thomas Babington Macaulay, 1st Baron Macaulay, History of England (Character of Charles II.) Vol. I, Chapter II
(Supposed to refer to Celestine V., elected Pope in 1294, who resigned five months later).
Alexander Pope, The Rape of the Lock (1712), Canto V, line 108
James Beattie, The Minstrel; or, The Progress of Genius (1771), book 1, stanza 7
A young man's ambition, can there be a more fleeting prospect?David Baldacci, Stone Cold (2007), Ch. 13
From my youth upwardsMy Spirit walked not with the souls of men, Nor looked upon the earth with human eyes;The thirst of their ambition was not mine, The aim of their existence was not mine; My joys—my griefs—my passions—and my powers, Made me a stranger; though I wore the form,I had no sympathy with breathing fleshLord Byron, Manfred in Manfred, Act 2, Scene 2, lines 50-58
He was utterly without ambition [Chas. II.]. He detested business, and would sooner have abdicated his crown than have undergone the trouble of really directing the administration.Thomas Babington Macaulay, 1st Baron Macaulay, History of England (Character of Charles II.) Vol. I, Chapter II
I charge thee, fling away ambition;By that sin fell the angels.William Shakespeare, Henry VIII (1613), Act III, scene ii
How like a mounting devil in the heartRules the unreined ambition!Nathaniel Parker Willis, Parrhasius
Alexis de Tocqueville, Democracy in America, Volume 2, Book 3, Chapter 19
William Shakespeare, Henry VIII (c. 1613), Act III, scene 2, line 437
Thomas Gray, Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard (1750), St. 8
Ayn Rand, Howard Roark describing "second-hand men" in The Fountainhead (1996), p. 607
William Shakespeare, Julius Cæsar (1599), Act III, scene 1, line 83
Ambition is the grand enemy of all peace.John Cowper Powys, The Meaning of Culture (1929)
At nos non imperium neque divitias petimus, quarum rerum causa bella atque certamina omnia inter mortales sunt, sed libertatem, quam nemo bonus nisi cum anima simul amittit.At power or wealth, for the sake of which wars, and all kinds of strife, arise among mankind, we do not aim; we desire only our liberty, which no honorable man relinquishes but with his life.Sallust, Bellum Catilinae (ca. 1st century), XXXIII, 5
I see, but cannot reach, the heightThat lies forever in the light.Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Christus, The Golden Legend (1872), p. II. A Village Church
Ambition often puts men upon doing the meanest offices; so climbing is performed in the same posture with creeping.Jonathan Swift, Thoughts on Various Subjects from Miscellanies (1711-1726)
I remind young people everywhere I go, one of the worst things the older generation did was to tell them for twenty-five years "Be successful, be successful, be successful" as opposed to "Be great, be great, be great".There's a qualitative difference.Cornel West, Speech in San Francisco: Democracy Matters (1 October 2004)
Ambition makes me so horny, I come fussing in the front end, if you've got nothing baby boy, you'd better get up, get out, and get something.Amil, "Can I Get A..." (1998), New York: Def Jam Recordings
John Dryden, Absalom and Achitophel (1681), Part I, line 198
Ill-weav'd ambition, how much art thou shrunk!When that this body did contain a spirit,A kingdom for it was too small a bound;But now, two paces of the vilest earthIs room enough.William Shakespeare, Henry IV, Part I (c. 1597), Act V, scene 4, line 88
Reason can no longer restrain one who is lured by the fury of ambition.Karl Marx, “Reflections of a Youth on Choosing an Occupation” (1835), Writings of the Young Marx on Philosophy and Society, L. Easton, trans. (1967), p. 36
Jean de La Bruyère, Characters, H. Van Laun, trans. (London: 1885) “Of Personal Merit,” #43
Oscar Wilde, "Phrases and Philosophies for the use of the Young", in The Chameleon (Oxford, December 1894)
Adam Smith, The Theory of Moral Sentiments, Part 4, Chapter 1
The shades of night were falling fast,As through an Alpine village passedA youth, who bore, 'mid snow and iceA banner with the strange device,Excelsior!Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Excelsior
Ambrose Bierce, The Cynic's Dictionary (1906); republished as The Devil's Dictionary (1911)
Baruch Spinoza, Ethics (1677), Part IV: "Of Human Bondage, or the Strength of the Emotions", Prop. 44
Vauvenargues, Reflections and Maxims, E. Lee, trans. (1903), p. 180
Well is it known that ambition can creep as well as soar.Edmund Burke, Letters On a Regicide Peace (1796), No. 3
José Ortega y Gasset, The Revolt of the Masses (1929), p. 63
Alfred Austin, In Veronica's Garden (London: Macmillan and Co., 1895), p. 139
The climbing soul, leaving all that she has grasped already as too narrow for her needs, will thus grasp the idea of that magnificence which is exalted far above the heavens. But how can any one reach to this, whose ambitions creep below? ... He therefore who keeps away from all bitterness and all the noisome effluvia of the flesh, and raises himself on the aforesaid wings above all low earthly ambitions, or, more than that, above the whole universe itself, will be the man to find that which is alone worth loving, and to become himself as beautiful as the Beauty which he has touched and entered.Gregory of Nyssa, On Virginity, Chapter 11
Walter Savage Landor, Imaginary Conversations (1824-1829), "Lord Brooke and Sir Philip Sidney"
Ambition prompted many to become deceitful; to keep one thing concealed in the breast, and another ready on the tongue; to estimate friendships and enmities, not by their worth, but according to interest; and to carry rather a specious countenance than an honest heart.Sallust, Bellum Catilinae (ca. 1st century), X, 5
How difficult the task to quench the fire and the pride of private ambition, and to sacrifice ourselves and all our hopes and expectations to the public weal! How few have souls capable of so noble an undertaking!Abigail Adams, letter to John Adams (10 July 1775)
The First thing that strikes a traveler in the United States is the innumerable multitude of those who seek to emerge from their original condition; and the second is the rarity of lofty ambition to be observed in the midst of the universally ambitious stir of society. No Americans are devoid of a yearning desire to rise, but hardly any appear to entertain hopes of great magnitude or to pursue very lofty aims. All are constantly seeking to acquire property, power, and reputation.Alexis de Tocqueville, Democracy in America, Volume 2, Book 3, Chapter 19
Ambition is the death of thought.Ludwig Wittgenstein, Culture and Value (1980), p. 77
The lust for power, which of all human vices was found in its most concentrated form in the Roman people as a whole, first established its victory in a few powerful individuals, and then crushed the rest of an exhausted country beneath the yoke of slavery.
Though ambition in itself is a vice, yet it is often the parent of virtues.
The poor man’s son ... devotes himself for ever to the pursuit of wealth and greatness. To obtain the conveniencies which these afford, he submits in the first year, nay in the first month of his application, to more fatigue of body, and more uneasiness of mind, than he could have suffered through the whole of his life from the want of them. ... He makes his court to all mankind; he serves those whom he hates, and is obsequious to those whom he despises. Through the whole of his life he pursues the idea of a certain artificial and elegant repose which he may never arrive at, for which he sacrifices a real tranquillity that is at all times in his power.Adam Smith, The Theory of Moral Sentiments, Part 4, Chapter 1
J. M. Barrie, The Twelve-Pound Look (one-act play, 1914), in The Plays of J. M. Barrie (London: Hodder and Stoughton, 1928), p. 781
Neither the black boy nor the white will ever be educated in the best and broadest sense of the term who seeks an education merely to reach an office, for, as in nature a stream never rises higher than its source, so in life men never rise higher than their ideals. The education that merely seeks an office must of necessity be limited to the dimensions of that office.William H. Crogman, "The Importance of Correct Ideals" (1892), in Talks for the Times (1896), p. 281
James Richardson, Vectors: Aphorisms and Ten Second Essays (2001), #412
The need of success … might have made me strive to say what might please the multitude, rather than what was true and useful, and instead of a distinguished author which I might possibly become, I should have ended in becoming nothing but a mere scribbler.Rousseau, Confessions (Wordsworth: 1996), p. 391
O fading honours of the dead!O high ambition, lowly laid!Walter Scott, The Lay of the Last Minstrel (1805), Canto II, Stanza 10
Augustine, The City of God (c. 400), as translated by H. Bettenson (1972), Book 1, Chapter 31, p. 42
Prima enim sequentem, honestum est in secundis, tertiisque consistere.When you are aspiring to the highest place, it is honorable to reach the second or even the third rank.Cicero, De Oratore, I
And why shall I not be content with these thoughts and this being which give a majesty to my nature and forego the ambition to shine in the frivolous assemblies of men where the genuine objects of my ambition are not revered or known?Ralph Waldo Emerson, Journal entry (January 1827)
As fall the dews on quenchless sands,Blood only serves to wash Ambition's hands!Lord Byron, Don Juan, Canto IX (1823), Stanza 59
Lord Byron, Manfred in Manfred, Act 2, Scene 2, lines 50-58
When we are beginning to live, then we are dying. There is, therefore, nothing more profitless than ambition.Theophrastus, dying words (286 BC) quoted by Diogenes Laërtius in Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers
Wisdom is corrupted by ambition, even when the quality of the ambition is intellectual. For ambition, even of this quality, is but a form of self-love.Henry Taylor, Notes from Life (1853), "Wisdom"
William H. Crogman, "The Importance of Correct Ideals" (1892), in Talks for the Times (1896), p. 281
William Shakespeare, Julius Cæsar (1599), Act III, scene 2, line 75
And mad ambition trumpeteth to all.Nathaniel Parker Willis, from a poem delivered at the Departure of the Senior Class of Yale College (1827)
When you are aspiring to the highest place, it is honorable to reach the second or even the third rank.
Niccolò Machiavelli, Discourses on Livy (1517), Book 1, Chapter 37
Thucydides, History of the Peloponnesian War (5th century BC), Book III, 39
Ludwig Klages, The Science of Character, W. Johnston, trans., p. 15
Ambition is the way in which a vulgar man aspires.Henry Ward Beecher, reported in Josiah Hotchkiss Gilbert, Dictionary of Burning Words of Brilliant Writers (1895), p. 11
Ambition is an idol on whose wingsGreat minds are carry'd only to extreme;To be sublimely great, or to be nothing.Thomas Southerne, The Persian Prince, or the Loyal Brother (1682), Act I, scene 1
The people ... have marred themselves by imitation of their inferiors. They have taken the sceptre of the Prince.Oscar Wilde, The Soul of Man Under Socialism
Henry Ward Beecher, reported in Josiah Hotchkiss Gilbert, Dictionary of Burning Words of Brilliant Writers (1895), p. 11
Vain the ambition of kingsWho seek by trophies and dead thingsTo leave a living name behind,And weave but nets to catch the wind.John Webster, The Devil's Law Case (1623)
The pugilist, whose highest ambition is to pound and bruise human flesh, and bear off from the prize-ring the victory and money staked thereon, subjects himself to the severest physical training in order to secure those ends, and naturally enough he always develops into a powerful animal, but an animal of less value than the horse or mule, whose powers of body contribute so much to human comfort.There have been pugilists on a more gigantic scale, with larger arenas for their operations, men like Julius Caesar, who conceived a passion for sovereign power.
That man is intellectually of the mass who, in the face of any problem, is satisfied with thinking the first thing he finds in his head. On the contrary, the excellent man is he who condemns what he finds in his mind without previous effort, and only accepts as worthy of him what is still far above him and what requires a further effort in order to be reached.José Ortega y Gasset, The Revolt of the Masses (1929), p. 63
William Shakespeare, Macbeth (1605), Act I, scene 7, line 25
William Shakespeare, Julius Cæsar (1599), Act II, scene 1, line 21
Ambition is no cure for love!Walter Scott, The Lay of the Last Minstrel (1805), Canto I, Stanza 27
There ought to be a place for people without ambition, I mean a better place than the one usually reserved.Charles Bukowski, Factotum (1975)
At power or wealth, for the sake of which wars, and all kinds of strife, arise among mankind, we do not aim; we desire only our liberty, which no honorable man relinquishes but with his life.
I had no car, no money, and it was tough seeing others have what I didn’t have even though I was working. I mean the social pressures to have the flyest ride, clothes, and financial mobility started to bear down on me. It’s hard for a person to be without these socially valued possessions and feel like a whole complete human being. [...] Under the influence of illegitimate-capitalist values, I was pursuing the alleviation of social-economic hardship through individual advancement. This is a wholly inadequate remedy to social problems because it doesn’t challenge the fundamental injustice of class-exploitation and class-oppression, which are responsible for creating the socio-economic ills in the first place. Unaware of my class interest, I was perpetuating my own oppression by engaging in competitive capitalist practices that ensure the smooth functioning of the system as the exploiting minority profits in more ways than one off the division and disunity engendered by competition, so prevalent amongst the exploited. Look around: competition, euphemistically called “individuality,” permeates and is systematically promoted to the masses of people while the corporate conglomerations and Fortune 500 are busy “merging and monopolizing.”Kevin Rashid Johnson, Defying the Tomb: Selected Prison Writings and Art of Kevin "Rashid" Johnson. Kersplebedeb. 2010. p. 65-71. ISBN 1894946391.
There have been pugilists on a more gigantic scale, with larger arenas for their operations, men like Julius Caesar, who conceived a passion for sovereign power.
Ambition is a gilded misery, a secret poison, a hidden plague, the engineer of deceit, the mother of hypocrisy, the parent of envy, the original of vices, the moth of holiness, the blinder of hearts, turning medicines into maladies, and remedies into diseases.Thomas Brooks, reported in Josiah Hotchkiss Gilbert, Dictionary of Burning Words of Brilliant Writers (1895), p. 12
William Shakespeare, Henry IV, Part I (c. 1597), Act V, scene 4, line 88
All sins have their origin in a sense of inferiority, otherwise called ambition.Cesare Pavese, This Business of Living (19 September 1938)
The place-seeker will resort to methods from which self-respecting men would shrink with as much aversion as the ancient Jew shrank from contact with the leper. The true purpose of education is not office. "The true purpose of education," says one, "is to cherish and unfold the seed of immortality already sown within us; to develop to their fullest extent the capacities of every kind with which the God who made us has endowed us." He, therefore, who fixes a limit of any kind to his intellectual attainments dwarfs himself, and cramps the growth of that mind given to us by the Creator, and capable of indefinite expansion.William H. Crogman, "The Importance of Correct Ideals" (1892), in Talks for the Times (1896), p. 282
William Shakespeare, Henry VI (1591), Part II, Act III, scene 1, line 143
AMBITION, n. An overmastering desire to be vilified by enemies while living and made ridiculous by friends when dead.Ambrose Bierce, The Cynic's Dictionary (1906); republished as The Devil's Dictionary (1911)
Marcel Proust, notes to Sesame and Lilies by John Ruskin (1906)
Ambition is word denoting strong desire for distinction, preferment, honor, political power, fame, or the object of such desires, or a general motivation, not necessarily tied to any particular goals.
Wilt thou debase the heart which God refined?No; let thy heaven-taught soul to heaven aspire,To fancy, freedom, harmony, resigned;Ambition's groveling crew forever left behind.James Beattie, The Minstrel; or, The Progress of Genius (1771), book 1, stanza 7
John Dryden, The Hind and the Panther (1687), Pt. III
Nothing is too high for the daring of mortals: we would storm heaven itself in our folly.
Alexander Pope, Elegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady (1717)
The highest form of vanity is love of fame.George Santayana, The Life of Reason: The Phases of Human Progress (1906)
Just see these superfluous ones! Wealth they acquire and become poorer thereby. Power they seek for, and above all, the lever of power, much money—these impotent ones!See them clamber, these nimble apes! They clamber over one another, and thus scuffle into the mud and the abyss.Towards the throne they all strive: it is their madness—as if happiness sat on the throne! Ofttimes sitteth filth on the throne—and ofttimes also the throne on filth.Madmen they all seem to me, and clambering apes, and too eager. Badly smelleth their idol to me, the cold monster: badly they all smell to me, these idolaters.Friedrich Nietzsche, “The New Idol,” Thus Spake Zarathustra (1891)
Walter Scott, The Lay of the Last Minstrel (1805), Canto I, Stanza 27
George Santayana, The Life of Reason: The Phases of Human Progress (1906)
Where ambition can be so happy as to cover its enterprizes, even to the person himself, under the appearance of principle, it is the most incurable and inflexible of all human passions.David Hume, The History of England (1754-62), Volume I, Part IV, "William the Conqueror"
Let not Ambition mock their useful toil,Their homely joys, and destiny obscure;Nor Grandeur hear with a disdainful smile,The short and simple annals of the poor.Thomas Gray, Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard (1750), St. 8
Such joy ambition finds.John Milton, Paradise Lost (1667; 1674), Book IV, line 92
For all may have,If they dare try, a glorious life, or grave.George Herbert, The Temple (1633), The Church-Porch
Virtue’s true reward is happiness itself, for which the virtuous work, whereas if they worked for honor, it would no longer be virtue, but ambition.Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theologica
Nil mortalibus arduum est:Cœlum ipsum petimus stultitia.Nothing is too high for the daring of mortals: we would storm heaven itself in our folly.Horace, Carmina, I. 3. 37
A narcissist, for example, inspired by the homage paid to great painters, may become an art student; but, as painting is for him a mere means to an end, the technique never becomes interesting … The result is failure and disappointment, with ridicule instead of the expected adulation. … All serious success in work depends upon some genuine interest. … Consequently, the man whose sole concern with the world is that is shall admire him is not likely to achieve his object.Bertrand Russell, The Conquest of Happiness, p. 20
Leo Tolstoy, Anna describing her husband, Anna Karenina, C. Garnett, trans. (New York: 2003), Part 2, Chapter 28, p. 192
The noble BrutusHath told you Cæsar was ambitious;If it were so, it was a grievous fault;And grievously hath Cæsar answered it.William Shakespeare, Julius Cæsar (1599), Act III, scene 2, line 75
But see how oft ambition's aims are cross'd,And chiefs contend 'til all the prize is lost!Alexander Pope, The Rape of the Lock (1712), Canto V, line 108
Virtue is chok'd with foul ambition.William Shakespeare, Henry VI (1591), Part II, Act III, scene 1, line 143
Ambition, like a torrent, ne'er looks back;And is a swelling, and the last affectionA high mind can put off; being both a rebelUnto the soul and reason, and enforcethAll laws, all conscience, treads upon religion,and offereth violence to nature's self.Ben Jonson, Catiline His Conspiracy (1611), Act III, scene ii
But when a miser thinks of nothing but gain or money, or when an ambitious man thinks of nothing but glory, they are not reckoned to be mad, because they are generally harmful, and are thought worthy of being hated. But, in reality, Avarice, Ambition, Lust, &c., are species of madness, though they may not be reckoned among diseases.Baruch Spinoza, Ethics (1677), Part IV: "Of Human Bondage, or the Strength of the Emotions", Prop. 44
Louis Bourdaloue, as quoted in The Bourgeois: Catholicism vs. Capitalism in Eighteenth-Century France (1927), p. 137
A wise man is cured of ambition by ambition itself; his aim is so exalted that riches, office, fortune, and favor cannot satisfy him.Jean de La Bruyère, Characters, H. Van Laun, trans. (London: 1885) “Of Personal Merit,” #43
Ambition is but Avarice on stilts and masked.Walter Savage Landor, Imaginary Conversations (1824-1829), "Lord Brooke and Sir Philip Sidney"
Karl Marx, “Reflections of a Youth on Choosing an Occupation” (1835), Writings of the Young Marx on Philosophy and Society, L. Easton, trans. (1967), p. 36
Thomas Brooks, reported in Josiah Hotchkiss Gilbert, Dictionary of Burning Words of Brilliant Writers (1895), p. 12
Ambition—it is the last infirmity of noble minds.J. M. Barrie, The Twelve-Pound Look (one-act play, 1914), in The Plays of J. M. Barrie (London: Hodder and Stoughton, 1928), p. 781
'Tis a common proof,That lowliness is young ambition's ladder,Whereto the climber upward turns his face;But when he once attains the upmost round,He then unto the ladder turns his back,Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degreesBy which he did ascend.William Shakespeare, Julius Cæsar (1599), Act II, scene 1, line 21
Nicolas Chamfort, Maxims and Considerations, E. P. Mathers, trans. (1926), #158
Here may we reign secure, and in my choiceTo reign is worth ambition, though in Hell.Better to reign in hell than serve in heaven.John Milton, Paradise Lost (1667; 1674), Book I, line 263
Theophrastus, dying words (286 BC) quoted by Diogenes Laërtius in Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers
Nearest the king, nearest the gallows.Danish proverb, in A Book of Proverbs, edited by Raymond Lamont_Brown (1970), p. 135
So ambitious men, if they find the way open for their rising, and still get forward, they are rather busy than dangerous; but if they be checked in their desires, they become secretly discontent, and look upon men and matters with an evil eye, and are best pleased, when things go backward.Francis Bacon, Essays (1625), "Of Ambition"
William H. Crogman, "The Importance of Correct Ideals" (1892), in Talks for the Times (1896), p. 282
"Sheaf, Hearse, Coffin, Poetry NOW" by E.V. Griffith (Hearse Press, 1996), pp. 30, 32
In 2013, the actor James Franco began shooting a film adaptation of Bukowski's novel Ham on Rye.[55] He wrote the script with his brother Dave. The adaptation began shooting in Los Angeles on January 22, 2013, with Franco directing. The film was partially shot in Oxford Square, a historic neighborhood of Los Angeles.[56] Following a lawsuit, the film was canceled.
Super Van (1977) – Lamar Gard, Lamar Card | Cast and Crew | AllMovie
Wood, Pamela (2010). Charles Bukowski's Scarlet. Sun Dog Press. ISBN 978-0-941543-58-3.
Play the Piano Drunk Like a Percussion Instrument Until the Fingers Begin to Bleed a Bit (1979)
4Selected works											Toggle Selected works subsection																					4.1Novels																											4.2Poetry collections																											4.3Short story chapbooks and collections																											4.4Nonfiction books
Young, Molly. "Poetry Foundation of America. Bukowski Profile". Poetryfoundation.org. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
Modest Mouse included a song titled "Bukowski" on their 2004 album Good News for People Who Love Bad News.
^ "Oscar's press release. Ham on rye" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on September 30, 2012. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
A 2006 musical comedy, Bukowsical!, by Spencer Green and Gary Stockdale, pokes fun at Bukowski's life and hipster image.[50]
"Online Essay Writing Service $10.00/page – Pro Essay Writings". easywriteessay.com. Archived from the original on June 11, 2009.
Over half of Bukowski's collections have been published posthumously. Posthumous collections have been known to have been 'John Martinized', with the poems having been highly edited, at a level which was not present during Bukowski's lifetime.[43] One example of a popular poem, "Roll the Dice" (when comparing the original manuscript to "What Matters Most Is How Well You Walk Through the Fire"), themes such as hell and alcoholism are removed. The creative editing present includes changing lines from "against total rejection and the highest of odds" to "despite rejection and the worst odds".[44][45]
Glenn Esterly/Abe Frajndlich (2020). Bukowski. The shooting. By Abe Frajndlich. Hirmer Publishers. ISBN 978-3-7774-3667-8.
"Sheaf, Hearse, Coffin, Poetry NOW" by E.V. Griffith (Hearse Press, 1996), pp. 23
^ "Excerpt from letter from Bukowski to Carl Weissner – included in ""Living on Luck Selected Letters 1960s – 1970s Volume 2"", page 276". Bukowskilive.com. Archived from the original on July 7, 2012. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
Charles Bukowski was the inspiration behind the first chapter of Mark Manson's bestselling self-help book The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck. His problems with drugs, women and alcoholism despite being a bestselling writer were discussed in the chapter titled "Don't Try" – a reference to the epitaph on the author's gravestone.
E.V. Griffith, editor of Hearse Press, published Bukowski's first separately printed publication, a broadside titled "His Wife, the Painter," in June 1960. This event was followed by Hearse Press's publication of "Flower, Fist and Bestial Wail," Bukowski's first chapbook of poems, in October 1960. "His Wife, the Painter" and three other broadsides ("The Paper on the Floor", "The Old Man on the Corner" and "Waste Basket") formed the centerpiece of Hearse Press's "Coffin 1", an innovative small-poetry publication consisting of a pocketed folder containing forty-two broadsides and lithographs which was published in 1964. Hearse Press continued to publish poems by Bukowski through the 1960s, 1970s, and early 1980s.[23]
"Charles Bukowski: The Last Straw (1980) – Trailers, Reviews, Synopsis, Showtimes and Cast"
"Charles Bukowski: There's Gonna Be a God Damn Riot in Here! Live in Vancouver (1979) – Trailers, Reviews, Synopsis, Showtimes and Cast". AllMovie. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
Charlson, David (July 6, 2006). Charles Bukowski: Autobiographer, Gender Critic, Iconoclast. Trafford Publishing. p. 30. ISBN 1-4120-5966-6.
Jon and Louise Webb, publishers of the literary magazine The Outsider, featured some of Bukowski's poetry in its pages. Under the Loujon Press imprint, the Webbs published Bukowski's It Catches My Heart in Its Hands in 1963 and Crucifix in a Deathhand in 1965.
Dean refers to Castiel as Bukoswki when he suggests in the series Supernatural (S5 episode 22) to get drunk and wait for the end of the world. [59]
Martinez, Al (January 7, 2008). "Do we need to admire Charles Bukowski to honor his poetry?". Los Angeles Times.
^ "Charles Bukowski poem and story database, book: Betting on the Muse". bukowski.net.
US heavy metal band W.A.S.P in their 1992 album "The Crimson Idol" used one line of Bukowski's poem, "Some People."
Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life
Crazy Love is a 1987 film directed by Belgian director Dominique Deruddere. The film is based on various writings by Bukowski, in particular "The Copulating Mermaid of Venice, California".
British indie band The Boo Radleys included a track named "Charles Bukowski is dead" on their 1994 album Wake Up!
Portions from a Wine-stained Notebook: Short Stories and Essays (2008)
Popova, Maria. "R. Crumb Illustrates Bukowksi" www.brainpickings.org. Retrieved September 25, 2014.
"Charles Bukowski article - Tough Guys Write Poetry by Sean Penn". bukowski.net. Retrieved November 11, 2022.
Ecco Press continues to release new collections of his poetry, culled from the thousands of works published in small literary magazines. According to Ecco Press, the 2007 release The People Look Like Flowers at Last will be his final posthumous release, as now all his once-unpublished work has been made available.[36]
^ "Sheaf, Hearse, Coffin, Poetry NOW" by E.V. Griffith (Hearse Press, 1996), pp. 23
"The Senseless, Tragic Rape of Charles Bukowski's Ghost by John Martin's Black Sparrow Press". mjp Books Blog. June 18, 2013.
Barfly, released in 1987, is a semi-autobiographical film written by Bukowski and starring Mickey Rourke as Henry Chinaski, who represents Bukowski, and Faye Dunaway as his lover Wanda Wilcox. Sean Penn offered to play Chinaski for one dollar as long as his friend Dennis Hopper would direct,[53] but the European director Barbet Schroeder had invested many years and thousands of dollars in the project and Bukowski felt Schroeder deserved to make it. Bukowski wrote the screenplay, was given script approval,[53] and appears as a bar patron in a brief cameo.
^ "Boston Review". Archived from the original on February 12, 2012.
Krumhansl, Aaron (1999). A Descriptive Bibliography of the Primary Publications of Charles Bukowski. Black Sparrow Press. ISBN 1-57423-104-9.
"Charles Bukowski article - Tough Guys Write Poetry by Sean Penn"
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 17:31 (UTC).
"Hanging with Bukowski at the Gotlieb Center" Archived March 29, 2010, at the Wayback Machine. BU Today. Boston University March 26, 2009
"Smashed:The pulp poetry of Charles Bukowski" by Adam Kirsch at The New Yorker March 14, 2005
Beginning in 1967, Bukowski wrote the column Notes of a Dirty Old Man for Los Angeles' Open City, an underground newspaper. When Open City was shut down in 1969, the column was picked up by the Los Angeles Free Press as well as the hippie underground paper NOLA Express in New Orleans. In 1969, Bukowski and Neeli Cherkovski launched their own short-lived mimeographed literary magazine, Laugh Literary and Man the Humping Guns. They produced three issues over the next two years.
"Charles Bukowski's Famous Childhood Home in Mid-City LA is For Sale"
^ a b c d Young, Molly. "Poetry Foundation of America. Bukowski Profile". Poetryfoundation.org. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
Bukowski's work was subject to controversy throughout his career, and he readily admitted to admiring strong leaders such as Adolf Hitler and Franklin D. Roosevelt. Hugh Fox claimed that his sexism in his poetry, at least in part, translated into his life. In 1969, Fox published the first critical study of Bukowski in The North American Review, and mentioned his attitude toward women: "When women are around, he has to play Man. In a way it's the same kind of 'pose' he plays at in his poetry—Bogart, Eric Von Stroheim. Whenever my wife Lucia would come with me to visit him he'd play the Man role, but one night she couldn't come I got to Buk's place and found a whole different guy—easy to get along with, relaxed, accessible."[35]
In June 2006, Bukowski's literary archive was donated by his widow to the Huntington Library in San Marino, California. Copies of all editions of his work published by the Black Sparrow Press are held at Western Michigan University, which purchased the archive of the publishing house after its closure in 2003.
"Charles Bukowski: There's Gonna Be a God Damn Riot in Here! Live in Vancouver (1979) – Trailers, Reviews, Synopsis, Showtimes and Cast"
^ Willman, Chris (July 27, 2020). "Miranda Lambert on Finally Reclaiming the No. 1 Spot With 'Bluebird': 'I Knew I Was Delivering Great Music'".
^ "The Senseless, Tragic Rape of Charles Bukowski's Ghost by John Martin's Black Sparrow Press". mjp Books Blog. June 18, 2013.
"The People Look Like Flowers At Last: New Poems". Amazon. March 9, 1994. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
Richard Verrier (February 13, 2013). "'Bukowski' plays role in modest rise for local film production". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
^ Keeler, Emily (September 9, 2013). "The FBI kept its own notes on 'dirty old man' Charles Bukowski". Los Angeles Times.
^ "Charles Bukowski: The Last Straw (1980) – Trailers, Reviews, Synopsis, Showtimes and Cast". AllMovie. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
Arctic Monkeys lead singer Alex Turner mentions Bukowski in the song "She Looks Like Fun", from the album Tranquility Base Hotel & Casino.
Neeli Cherkovski: Das Leben des Charles Bukowski. München 1993, p. 18-20.
"Bluebird" is claimed to be the first country song inspired by Charles Bukowski to reach Number 1.[49]
Charlson, David (2005). Charles Bukowski: Autobiographer, Gender Critic, Iconoclast. Trafford Press. ISBN 978-1-41205-966-4.
Bukowski live readings were legendary, with the drunk raucous crowd fighting with the drunk angry poet. In 1972, Joe Wolberg, who was the manager of City Lights Books in San Francisco, rented a hall and paid Bukowski to read his poems. A vinyl album was released by City Lights, which was re-issued by Takoma Records in 1980.[30]
"Mickey Rourke plays a tough barfly" Archived February 13, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. Interview with Bukowski February 10, 1987. Chicago Sun Times
Erections, Ejaculations, Exhibitions, and General Tales of Ordinary Madness (1972)
By 1960, Bukowski had returned to the post office in Los Angeles and began work as a letter filing clerk, a position he held for more than a decade. In 1962, he was distraught over the death of Jane Cooney Baker, his first serious girlfriend. Bukowski turned his inner devastation into a series of poems and stories lamenting her death.[22]
Sounes, Howard. Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life. Grove Press, 1998. 275.
^ Ciotti, Paul. (March 22, 1987) Los Angeles Times Bukowski: He's written more than 40 books, and in Europe he's treated like a rock star. He has dined with Norman Mailer and goes to the race track with Sean Penn. Mickey Rourke and Faye Dunaway are starring in a movie based on his life. At 66, poet Charles Bukowski is suddenly in vogue. Section: Los Angeles Times Magazine;p12.
Ciotti, Paul. (March 22, 1987) Los Angeles Times Bukowski: He's written more than 40 books, and in Europe he's treated like a rock star. He has dined with Norman Mailer and goes to the race track with Sean Penn. Mickey Rourke and Faye Dunaway are starring in a movie based on his life. At 66, poet Charles Bukowski is suddenly in vogue. Section: Los Angeles Times Magazine;p12.
Bukowski embarked on a series of love affairs and one-night trysts. One of these relationships was with Linda King, a poet and sculptress. Critic Robert Peters reported seeing Bukowski as actor in King's play Only a Tenant, in which she and Bukowski stage-read the first act at the Pasadena Museum of the Artist. This was a one-off performance of what was a shambolic work.[26] Bukowski's other affairs were with a recording executive and a twenty-three-year-old redhead; he wrote a book of poetry as a tribute to his love for the latter, titled, "Scarlet" (Black Sparrow Press, 1976). His various affairs and relationships provided material for his stories and poems. Another important relationship was with "Tanya", pseudonym of "Amber O'Neil" (also a pseudonym), described in Bukowski's "Women" as a pen-pal that evolved into a week-end tryst at Bukowski's residence in Los Angeles in the 1970s. "Amber O'Neil" later self-published a chapbook about the affair entitled "Blowing My Hero".[27]
Bukowski's parents met in Andernach following World War I. His father was German-American and a sergeant in the United States Army serving in Germany after the empire's defeat in 1918.[10] He had an affair with Katharina, a German friend's sister, and she subsequently became pregnant. Bukowski repeatedly claimed to be born out of wedlock, but Andernach marital records indicate that his parents married one month before his birth.[10][15] Afterwards, Bukowski's father became a building contractor, set to make great financial gains in the aftermath of the war, and after two years moved the family to Pfaffendorf (today part of Koblenz). However, given the crippling postwar reparations being required of Germany, which led to a stagnant economy and high levels of inflation, he was unable to make a living and decided to move the family to the U.S. On April 23, 1923, they sailed from Bremerhaven to Baltimore, Maryland, where they settled.
The punk band Hot Water Music took their name from Bukowski's 1983 collection of short stories, Hot Water Music.
Charles Bukowski (2009) Barry Miles. Random House, 2009, ISBN 978-0-7535-2159-5[page needed]
Writers including John Fante,[37] Knut Hamsun,[37] Louis-Ferdinand Céline,[37] Ernest Hemingway,[38] Robinson Jeffers,[38] Henry Miller,[37] D. H. Lawrence,[38] Fyodor Dostoevsky,[38] Du Fu[38] Li Bai,[38] and James Thurber are noted as influences on Bukowski's writing.
^ Martinez, Al (January 7, 2008). "Do we need to admire Charles Bukowski to honor his poetry?". Los Angeles Times.
^ Golembewski, Vanessa. "Harry Styles Reads Bukowski – One Direction Boston". www.refinery29.com.
"Introduction to Charles Bukowski by Jay Dougherty". Jaydougherty.com. August 16, 1920. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
"The Senseless, Tragic Rape of Charles Bukowski's Ghost by John Martin's Black Sparrow Press"
Post-hardcore band Thursday's 2003 album War All the Time was also named after the Bukowski book of the same name.
In March 1980 he gave his very last reading at the Sweetwater music venure in Redondo Beach, California, which was released as Hostage on vinyl and audio CD, and The Last Straw on DVD, filmed and produced by Jon Monday for mondayMEDIA.[33] In 2010 the unedited versions of both The Last Straw and Riot were released as One Tough Mother on DVD.[34]
Dorbin, Sanford (1969). A Bibliography of Charles Bukowski, Black Sparrow Press.
^ "Online Essay Writing Service $10.00/page – Pro Essay Writings". easywriteessay.com. Archived from the original on June 11, 2009.
Burning in Water, Drowning in Flame: Selected Poems 1955–1973 (1974)
^ a b c d e f Charlson, David (July 6, 2006). Charles Bukowski: Autobiographer, Gender Critic, Iconoclast. Trafford Publishing. p. 30. ISBN 1-4120-5966-6.
The Mathematics of the Breath and the Way: On Writers and Writing Edited by David Stephen Calonne (City Lights, 2018)
^ Super Van (1977) – Lamar Gard, Lamar Card | Cast and Crew | AllMovie, retrieved April 4, 2022
Cherkovski, Neeli (1991). Hank: The Life of Charles Bukowski. ISBN 3-87512-235-6.
"Excerpt from letter from Bukowski to Carl Weissner – included in ""Living on Luck Selected Letters 1960s – 1970s Volume 2"", page 276". Bukowskilive.com. Archived from the original on July 7, 2012. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
^ a b c d Hemmingson, Michael (October 9, 2008). The Dirty Realism Duo: Charles Bukowski & Raymond Carver. Borgo Press. pp. 70, 71. ISBN 978-1-4344-0257-8.
On July 22, 1944, with the war ongoing, Bukowski was arrested by FBI agents in Philadelphia, where he lived at the time, on suspicion of draft evasion. At a time when the U.S. was at war with Nazi Germany, and many Germans and German-Americans on the home front were suspected of disloyalty, Bukowski's German birth troubled authorities. He was held for seventeen days in Philadelphia's Moyamensing Prison. Sixteen days later, he failed a psychological examination that was part of his mandatory military entrance physical test and was given a Selective Service Classification of 4-F (unfit for military service).
Guide to the Charles Bukowski Manuscript. Special Collections and Archives, The UC Irvine Libraries, Irvine, California.
"The FBI kept its own notes on 'dirty old man' Charles Bukowski"
Super Van (1977) – Lamar Gard, Lamar Card | Cast and Crew | AllMovie, retrieved April 4, 2022
In 1955, Bukowski was treated for a near-fatal bleeding ulcer. After leaving the hospital he began to write poetry.[10] That same year he agreed to marry small-town Texas poet Barbara Frye, but they subsequently divorced in 1958. According to Howard Sounes's Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life, she later died under mysterious circumstances in India. Following his divorce, Bukowski resumed drinking and continued writing poetry.[10]
In his early teen years, Bukowski had an epiphany when he was introduced to alcohol by his friend William "Baldy" Mullinax, depicted as "Eli LaCrosse" in Ham on Rye, son of an alcoholic surgeon. "This [alcohol] is going to help me for a very long time," he later wrote, describing a method (drinking) he could use to come to more amicable terms with his own life.[17] After graduating from Los Angeles High School, Bukowski attended Los Angeles City College for two years, taking courses in art, journalism, and literature, before quitting at the start of World War II. He then moved to New York City to begin a career as a financially pinched blue-collar worker with hopes of becoming a writer.[18]
In the film, Locating Silver Lake, the hot neighborlady mentions the poet.
In 2002 English composer and jazz pianist Roland Perrin set six of Bukowski's poems for choir and big band in his work 'songs from the cage' which was commissioned by Hertfordshire Chorus and first performed in April 2002
US band 311 reference Bukowski's alter ego "Hank Chinaski" in the song "Stealing Happy Hours", from the album Transistor.
What Matters Most Is How Well You Walk Through the Fire. (1999)
During his lifetime, Bukowski received little attention from academic critics in the USA, but was better received in Europe, particularly the UK, and especially Germany, where he was born. Since his death in March 1994, Bukowski has been the subject of a number of critical articles and books about both his life and writings.
British-American rapper MF Doom referred to Bukowski as inspiration for his songs, featuring a Bukowski poem in one of his songs, "Cellz", off of his 2009 album, of which the title was a reference to Bukowski's poem "Dinosauria, We": Born Like This.[46]
"Oscar's press release. Ham on rye" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on September 30, 2012. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
^ Kudler, Adrian Glick (May 26, 2015). "Charles Bukowski's Famous Childhood Home in Mid-City LA is For Sale". Curbed LA.
1Biography											Toggle Biography subsection																					1.1Family and early years																											1.2Early writing																											1.31960s																											1.4Black Sparrow years																											1.5Live poetry readings																											1.6Death and legacy
"Do we need to admire Charles Bukowski to honor his poetry?"
^ "Charles Bukowski: There's Gonna Be a God Damn Riot in Here! Live in Vancouver (1979) – Trailers, Reviews, Synopsis, Showtimes and Cast". AllMovie. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
^ Sounes, Howard. Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life. Grove Press, 1998. 275.
Killer Mike mentions Bukowski in the song "Walking in the Snow" on the 2020 album RTJ4, saying he reads Noam Chomsky and Bukowski.
Henry Charles Bukowski (/buːˈkaʊski/ boo-KOW-skee; born Heinrich Karl Bukowski, German: [ˈhaɪnʁɪç ˈkaʁl buˈkɔfski]; August 16, 1920 – March 9, 1994) was an American poet, novelist, and short story writer. His writing was influenced by the social, cultural, and economic ambience of his adopted home city of Los Angeles.[4] Bukowski's work addresses the ordinary lives of poor Americans, the act of writing, alcohol, relationships with women, and the drudgery of work. The FBI kept a file on him as a result of his column Notes of a Dirty Old Man in the LA underground newspaper Open City.[5][6]
U.K. band Moose Blood named their first EP after him, as well as naming a track, and mentioning his name, throughout their first album, I'll Keep You in Mind, From Time to Time.
Bukowski published extensively in small literary magazines and with small presses beginning in the early 1940s and continuing on through the early 1990s. He wrote thousands of poems, hundreds of short stories and six novels, eventually publishing over sixty books during the course of his career. Some of these works include his Poems Written Before Jumping Out of an 8 Story Window, published by his friend and fellow poet Charles Potts, and better known works such as Burning in Water, Drowning in Flame. These poems and stories were later republished by John Martin's Black Sparrow Press (now HarperCollins/Ecco Press) as collected volumes of his work. As noted by one reviewer, "Bukowski continued to be, thanks to his antics and deliberate clownish performances, the king of the underground and the epitome of the littles in the ensuing decades, stressing his loyalty to those small press editors who had first championed his work and consolidating his presence in new ventures such as the New York Quarterly, Chiron Review, or Slipstream."[7]
Bukowski's poem "Let It Enfold You" is read by Timothée Chalamet's character in the 2018 film Beautiful Boy.[57]
Hardcore punk rock band Poison Idea's 1987 album War All the Time was named after Bukowski's eponymous book.
Bukowski often spoke of Los Angeles as his favorite subject. In a 1974 interview he said, "You live in a town all your life, and you get to know every bitch on the street corner and half of them you have already messed around with. You've got the layout of the whole land. You have a picture of where you are.... Since I was raised in L.A., I've always had the geographical and spiritual feeling of being here. I've had time to learn this city. I can't see any other place than L.A."[25]
"'Bukowski' plays role in modest rise for local film production"
When Bukowski was aged 24, his short story "Aftermath of a Lengthy Rejection Slip" was published in Story magazine. Two years later, another short story, "20 Tanks from Kasseldown", was published by the Black Sun Press in Issue III of Portfolio: An Intercontinental Quarterly, a limited-run, loose-leaf broadside collection printed in 1946 and edited by Caresse Crosby. Failing to break into the literary world, Bukowski grew disillusioned with the publication process and quit writing for almost a decade, a time that he referred to as a "ten-year drunk". These "lost years" formed the basis for his later semiautobiographical chronicles, and there are fictionalized versions of Bukowski's life through his highly stylized alter-ego, Henry Chinaski.[4]
The Captain Is Out to Lunch and the Sailors Have Taken Over the Ship (1998)
Several of Bukowski's poems were published in the late 1950s in Gallows, a small poetry magazine published briefly (the magazine lasted for two issues) by Jon Griffith.[20] The small avant-garde literary magazine Nomad, published by Anthony Linick and Donald Factor (the son of Max Factor Jr.), offered a home to Bukowski's early work. Nomad's inaugural issue in 1959 featured two of his poems. A year later, Nomad published one of Bukowski's best known essays, Manifesto: A Call for Our Own Critics.[21]
^ Fox, Hugh (1969). "Hugh Fox: The Living Underground: Charles Bukowski". The North American Review. 254 (3): 57–58. JSTOR 25117001.
Donnelly, Ben. "The Review of Contemporary Fiction: Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life by Howard Sounces". Dalkey Archive Press at the University of Illinois. Archived from the original on October 11, 2008.
One critic has described Bukowski's fiction as a "detailed depiction of a certain taboo male fantasy: the uninhibited bachelor, slobby, anti-social, and utterly free", an image he tried to live up to with sometimes riotous public poetry readings and boorish party behavior.[40]A few critics and commentators[41] also supported the idea that Bukowski was a cynic, as a man and a writer. Bukowski denied being a cynic, stating: "I've always been accused of being a cynic. I think cynicism is sour grapes. I think cynicism is a weakness."[42]
Iyer, Pico (June 16, 1986). "Celebrities Who Travel Well". Time. Archived from the original on March 16, 2008. Retrieved April 28, 2010.
^ Donnelly, Ben. "The Review of Contemporary Fiction: Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life by Howard Sounces". Dalkey Archive Press at the University of Illinois. Archived from the original on October 11, 2008.
^ "Charles Bukowski, King of the Underground From Obscurity to Literary Icon". Palgrave Macmillan. Archived from the original on September 24, 2015. Retrieved April 2, 2015.
American band Red Hot Chili Peppers reference Bukowski and his works in several songs; singer Anthony Kiedis has stated that Bukowski is a big influence on his writing.
^ "Sheaf, Hearse, Coffin, Poetry NOW" by E.V. Griffith (Hearse Press, 1996), pp. 30, 32
In December 2020, American rock band Chain Sherlock used a sample of a Bukowski interview in their opening track "Soledad" on the album Souvenir L'Amour L'Hospital Décès.
^ Charles Bukowski US-Schrifsteller aus Andernach, Eifel-Zeitung, August 16, 2016 (in German)
^ a b Bukowski, Charles (1982). Ham on Rye. Ecco. ISBN 0-06-117758-X.
In 1986, Time called Bukowski a "laureate of American lowlife".[8] Regarding his enduring popular appeal, Adam Kirsch of The New Yorker wrote, "the secret of Bukowski's appeal ... [is that] he combines the confessional poet's promise of intimacy with the larger-than-life aplomb of a pulp-fiction hero."[9]
^ "Charles Bukowski article - Tough Guys Write Poetry by Sean Penn". bukowski.net. Retrieved November 11, 2022.
Charles Bukowski was born Heinrich Karl Bukowski in Andernach, Prussia, Weimar Germany. His father was Heinrich (Henry) Bukowski, an American of German descent who had served in the U.S. army of occupation after World War I and had remained in Germany after his army service. His mother was Katharina (née Fett). His paternal grandfather, Leonard Bukowski, had moved to the United States from Imperial Germany in the 1880s. In Cleveland, Ohio, Leonard met Emilie Krause, an ethnic German, who had emigrated from Danzig. They married and settled in Pasadena, California, where Leonard worked as a successful carpenter. The couple had four children, including Heinrich (Henry), Charles Bukowski's father.[10][11] His mother, Katharina Bukowski, was the daughter of Wilhelm Fett and Nannette Israel.[12] The name Israel is widespread among Catholics in the Eifel region.[13] Bukowski assumed his paternal ancestor had moved from Poland to Germany around 1780, as "Bukowski" is a Polish last name. As far back as Bukowski could trace, his whole family was German.[14]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Dobozy, Tamas (2001). "In the Country of Contradiction the Hypocrite is King: Defining Dirty Realism in Charles Bukowski's Factotum". Modern Fiction Studies. 47: 43–68. doi:10.1353/mfs.2001.0002. S2CID 170828985.
You Get So Alone at Times That It Just Makes Sense (1986)
^ "What about 'Roll the Dice'?". Charles Bukowski – American author.
"What about 'Roll the Dice'?". Charles Bukowski – American author.
Brewer, Gay (1997). Charles Bukowski: Twayne's United States Authors Series. ISBN 0-8057-4558-0.
^ Kirsch, Adam (March 14, 2005). "Smashed". The New Yorker.
American post-hardcore band Chiodos named their second album after one of Bukowski's books of poetry, Bone Palace Ballet.
^ Bukowski, Charles Run with the hunted: a Charles Bukowski reader, Edited by John Martin (Ecco, 2003), pp. 363–365
There's Gonna Be a God Damn Riot in Here (2008)
His family moved to Mid-City, Los Angeles,[16] in 1930.[10][15] Bukowski's father was often unemployed. In the autobiographical Ham on Rye, Bukowski says that, with his mother's acquiescence, his father was frequently abusive, both physically and mentally, beating his son for the smallest imagined offense.[17][18] He later told an interviewer that his father beat him with a razor strop three times a week from the ages of six to 11 years. He says that it helped his writing, as he came to understand undeserved pain.
"Big-Screen Time for Bukowski : 'Love Is a Dog' and 'Barfly' Put Hard-Living Poet in the Limelight"
The 2005 film Factotum, adapted from Bukowski's 1975 novel of the same name, was released to mixed reviews.[54]
^ a b Sounes, Howard. Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life, p. 8
Hemmingson, Michael (October 9, 2008). The Dirty Realism Duo: Charles Bukowski & Raymond Carver. Borgo Press. pp. 70, 71. ISBN 978-1-4344-0257-8.
^ Popova, Maria. "R. Crumb Illustrates Bukowksi" www.brainpickings.org. Retrieved September 25, 2014.
In 1969, Bukowski accepted an offer from Black Sparrow Press publisher John Martin and quit his post office job to dedicate himself to full-time writing. He was then 49 years old. As he explained in a letter at the time, "I have one of two choices – stay in the post office and go crazy ... or stay out here and play at writer and starve. I have decided to starve."[25] Less than one month after leaving the postal service he finished his first novel, Post Office. As a measure of respect for Martin's financial support and faith in a relatively unknown writer, Bukowski published almost all of his subsequent major works with Black Sparrow Press, which became a highly successful enterprise. An avid supporter of small independent presses, Bukowski continued to submit poems and short stories to innumerable small publications throughout his career.[18]
"Charles Bukowski poem and story database, book: Betting on the Muse". bukowski.net.
Duval Jean-François (2002). Bukowski and the Beats followed by An Evening at Buk's Place: an Interview with Charles Bukowski. Sun Dog Press. ISBN 0-941543-30-7.
"Charles Bukowski, King of the Underground From Obscurity to Literary Icon". Palgrave Macmillan. Archived from the original on September 24, 2015. Retrieved April 2, 2015.
Young Bukowski spoke English with a strong German accent and was taunted by his childhood playmates with the epithet "Heini," German diminutive of Heinrich, in his early youth. He was shy and socially withdrawn, a condition exacerbated during his teen years by an extreme case of acne.[18] Neighborhood children ridiculed his accent and the clothing his parents made him wear. The Great Depression bolstered his rage as he grew, and gave him much of his voice and material for his writings.[19]
In 1981, the Italian director Marco Ferreri made a film, Storie di ordinaria follia (aka Tales of Ordinary Madness), loosely based on the short stories of Bukowski; Ben Gazzara played the role of Bukowski's character.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Dobozy, Tamas (2001). "In the Country of Contradiction the Hypocrite is King: Defining Dirty Realism in Charles Bukowski's Factotum". Modern Fiction Studies. 47: 43–68. doi:10.1353/mfs.2001.0002. S2CID 170828985.
In May 1978, Bukowski traveled to West Germany and gave a live poetry reading of his work before an audience in Hamburg. This was released as a double 12" L.P. stereo record titled "CHARLES BUKOWSKI 'Hello. It's good to be back.'"
Charles Bukowski US-Schrifsteller aus Andernach, Eifel-Zeitung, August 16, 2016 (in German)
In 1976, Bukowski met Linda Lee Beighle, a health food restaurant owner, rock-and-roll groupie, aspiring actress, heiress to a small Philadelphia "Main Line" fortune and devotee of Meher Baba. Two years later he moved from the East Hollywood area, where he had lived for most of his life, to the harborside community of San Pedro,[28] the southernmost district of Los Angeles. Beighle followed him and they lived together intermittently over the next two years. They were eventually married by Manly Palmer Hall, a Canadian-born author, mystic, and spiritual teacher, in 1985. Beighle is referred to as "Sara" in Bukowski's novels Women and Hollywood.
^ a b "Big-Screen Time for Bukowski : 'Love Is a Dog' and 'Barfly' Put Hard-Living Poet in the Limelight". Los Angeles Times. November 3, 1987. Retrieved July 17, 2019.
The Days Run Away Like Wild Horses Over the Hills (1969)
Willman, Chris (July 27, 2020). "Miranda Lambert on Finally Reclaiming the No. 1 Spot With 'Bluebird': 'I Knew I Was Delivering Great Music'".
In the 1980s, Bukowski collaborated with cartoonist Robert Crumb on a series of comic books, with Bukowski supplying the writing and Crumb providing the artwork. Through the 1990s Crumb also illustrated a number of Bukowski's stories, including the collection The Captain Is Out to Lunch and the Sailors Have Taken Over the Ship and the story "Bring Me Your Love."[29]
Works by or about Charles Bukowski in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
Sounes, Howard (1998). Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life. ISBN 0-8021-1645-0.
^ Richard Verrier (February 13, 2013). "'Bukowski' plays role in modest rise for local film production". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
The Volcano Choir song "Alaskans" features a recording of Bukowski reading a poem on French television.[48]
Prior to their live sets, the post-rock band Caspian play a recording of Bukowski's poem Go All the Way as read by Tom O'Bedlam.
^ Elisa Leonelli, "Charles Bukowski: "It's humanity that bothers me.", Cultural Weekly, August 4, 2015.
In 1964 a daughter, Marina Louise Bukowski, was born to Bukowski and his live-in girlfriend Frances Smith.[24]
Harry Styles has stopped One Direction concerts to read Bukowski in 2014.[47]
Poems Written Before Jumping Out of an 8-story Window (1968)
Bukowski: He's written more than 40 books, and in Europe he's treated like a rock star. He has dined with Norman Mailer and goes to the race track with Sean Penn. Mickey Rourke and Faye Dunaway are starring in a movie based on his life. At 66, poet Charles Bukowski is suddenly in vogue.
Fall Out Boy referenced Bukowski's novel Post Office in their unreleased song "Guilty as Charged (Tell Hip-Hop I'm Literate)".
Fox, Hugh (1969). "Hugh Fox: The Living Underground: Charles Bukowski". The North American Review. 254 (3): 57–58. JSTOR 25117001.
^ "The People Look Like Flowers At Last: New Poems". Amazon. March 9, 1994. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
The Captain Is Out to Lunch and the Sailors Have Taken Over the Ship
Golembewski, Vanessa. "Harry Styles Reads Bukowski – One Direction Boston". www.refinery29.com.
"Big-Screen Time for Bukowski : 'Love Is a Dog' and 'Barfly' Put Hard-Living Poet in the Limelight". Los Angeles Times. November 3, 1987. Retrieved July 17, 2019.
Fox, Hugh (1969). Charles Bukowski: A Critical and Bibliographical Study.
Harrison, Russell (1994). Against The American Dream: Essays on Charles Bukowski. ISBN 0-87685-959-7.
HarperCollins profile, timeline and resources Archived February 10, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
Confessions of a Man Insane Enough to Live with Beasts (1965)
Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life (1998 biography)
Please reorganize this content to explain the subject's impact on popular culture, providing citations to reliable, secondary sources, rather than simply listing appearances. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Sounes, Howard. Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life, p. 8
^ a b c d e f g Charles Bukowski (2009) Barry Miles. Random House, 2009, ISBN 978-0-7535-2159-5[page needed]
Roni (2020). Charles Bukowski Timeline. A special publication of the Charles-Bukowski-Society in cooperation with bukowski.net & Michael J. Phillips. MaroVerlag. ISBN 978-3-87512-323-4.
Bukowski, Charles Run with the hunted: a Charles Bukowski reader, Edited by John Martin (Ecco, 2003), pp. 363–365
Bukowski also performed live readings of his works, beginning in 1962 on radio station KPFK in Los Angeles and increasing in frequency through the 1970s. Drinking was often a featured part of the readings, along with a combative banter with the audience.[39] Bukowski could also be generous; for example, after a sold-out show at Amazingrace Coffeehouse in Evanston, Illinois, on November 18, 1975, he signed and illustrated over 100 copies of his poem "Winter," published by No Mountains Poetry Project. By the late 1970s, Bukowski's income was sufficient to give up live readings.
Bukowski died of leukemia on March 9, 1994, in San Pedro, aged 73, shortly after completing his last novel, Pulp. The funeral rites, orchestrated by his widow, were conducted by Buddhist monks. He is interred at Green Hills Memorial Park in Rancho Palos Verdes. An account of the proceedings can be found in Gerald Locklin's book Charles Bukowski: A Sure Bet. His gravestone reads: "Don't Try", a phrase which Bukowski uses in one of his poems, advising aspiring writers and poets about inspiration and creativity. Bukowski explained the phrase in a 1963 letter to John William Corrington: "Somebody at one of these places [...] asked me: 'What do you do? How do you write, create?' You don't, I told them. You don't try. That's very important: not to try, either for Cadillacs, creation or immortality. You wait, and if nothing happens, you wait some more. It's like a bug high on the wall. You wait for it to come to you. When it gets close enough you reach out, slap out and kill it. Or, if you like its looks, you make a pet out of it."
^ a b "Introduction to Charles Bukowski by Jay Dougherty". Jaydougherty.com. August 16, 1920. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
"Boston Review". Archived from the original on February 12, 2012.
Mac Miller used an excerpt from The Charles Bukowski Tapes on his song "Wedding" from his 2014 mixtape Faces.
3In popular culture											Toggle In popular culture subsection																					3.1In music																											3.2In film																											3.3In literature
It Catches My Heart in Its Hands (1963) (title taken from Robinson Jeffers poem, "Hellenistics")
^ Iyer, Pico (June 16, 1986). "Celebrities Who Travel Well". Time. Archived from the original on March 16, 2008. Retrieved April 28, 2010.
Keeler, Emily (September 9, 2013). "The FBI kept its own notes on 'dirty old man' Charles Bukowski". Los Angeles Times.
Elisa Leonelli, "Charles Bukowski: "It's humanity that bothers me.", Cultural Weekly, August 4, 2015.
Kudler, Adrian Glick (May 26, 2015). "Charles Bukowski's Famous Childhood Home in Mid-City LA is For Sale". Curbed LA.
During part of this period he continued living in Los Angeles, working at a pickle factory for a short time but also spending some time roaming about the U.S., working sporadically and staying in cheap rooming houses.[10] In the early 1950s, he took a job as a fill-in letter carrier with the United States Post Office Department in Los Angeles, but resigned just before he reached three years' service.
"Excerpt from letter from Bukowski to Carl Weissner – included in ""Living on Luck Selected Letters 1960s – 1970s Volume 2"", page 276"
"Charles Bukowski, King of the Underground From Obscurity to Literary Icon"
"The Review of Contemporary Fiction: Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life by Howard Sounces"
His last international performance was in October 1979 in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, and was released on DVD as There's Gonna Be a God Damn Riot in Here. The reading was produced by fan/friend Dennis Del Torre, who rented a venue, Viking Hall, paid Bukowski and his wife Linda to fly up, hired a video crew, promoted the event, and sold tickets. The crowd and Bukowski were very drunk for the event. Sadly, a heckler was near the stage and can be heard clearly. Del Torre went to Bukowski's widow, Linda Bukowski for permission to license it. He thought it was the last reading Bukowski gave, but Linda told him there was another reading after that in Redondo Beach, CA in early 1980.[31][32]
Bukowski appeared with a cameo in the 1977 movie Supervan, as the "Wet T-Shirt Contest Water Boy."[58]
^ Neeli Cherkovski: Das Leben des Charles Bukowski. München 1993, p. 18-20.
Fogel, Al (2000). Charles Bukowski: A Comprehensive Price Guide & Checklist, 1944–1999.
"Charles Bukowski poem and story database, book: Betting on the Muse"
Mark Manson, The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck. Bukowski is featured in the introduction.
"Charles Bukowski: The Last Straw (1980) – Trailers, Reviews, Synopsis, Showtimes and Cast". AllMovie. Retrieved July 17, 2014.
"Miranda Lambert on Finally Reclaiming the No. 1 Spot With 'Bluebird': 'I Knew I Was Delivering Great Music'"
Bukowski's poem "Let It Enfold You", published in Betting on the Muse: Poems and Stories (1996),[51] influenced the emotional 2004 Senses Fail song (and album) of the same name.[52]
^ "Britain's Real Class System: Great British Class Survey". BBC Lab UK. Retrieved 4 April 2013.
EVOLUTION OF PROPERTY FROM SAVAGERY TO CIVILIZATION. HANSEBOOKS. 2017. ISBN 978-3-337-31218-3. OCLC 1104923720.
Similar data about New York is also available for life expectancy, average income per capita, income distribution, median income mobility for people who grew up poor, share with a bachelor's degree or higher.[40]
"Klassamhället åter anser 9 av 10". Svenska Dagbladet (in Swedish). 26 April 2004. ISSN 1101-2412.
Jones, Owen Peter (2011). Chavs : the demonization of the working class : with new preface ([New] ed.). ISBN 978-1-78168-398-9. OCLC 1105199910.
Savage, Mike; Devine, Fiona (3 April 2013). "The Great British class calculator: Mike Savage from the London School of Economics and Fiona Devine from the University of Manchester describe their findings from The Great British Class Survey. Their results identify a new model of class with seven classes ranging from the Elite at the top to a 'Precariat' at the bottom". BBC. Retrieved 4 April 2013.
^ Baizidi, Rahim (2 September 2019). "Paradoxical class: paradox of interest and political conservatism in middle class". Asian Journal of Political Science. 27 (3): 272–285. doi:10.1080/02185377.2019.1642772. ISSN 0218-5377. S2CID 199308683.
Karl Marx & Friedrich Engels. "Manifesto of the Communist Party", Selected Works, Volume 1; London,' 1943; p. 232-234.
^ Dahrendorf, Ralf. (1959) Class and Class Conflict in Industrial Society. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
"Var du bor avgör när du dör" (in Swedish). 12 May 2014.
^ Postone, Moishe (1993). Time, Labor, and Social Domination: A Reinterpretation of Marx's Critical Theory. via libcom.org. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-39157-1. OCLC 26853972.
^ Leonhardt, David; Serkez, Yaryna (13 May 2020). "Opinion | What Does Opportunity Look Like Where You Live?". The New York Times.
Budrys, Grace (2009). Unequal Health: How Inequality Contributes to Health Or Illness. Rowman & Littlefield. pp. 183–84. ISBN 978-0-7425-6507-4.
Om konsten att lyfta sig själv i håret och behålla barnet i badvattnet : kritiska synpunkter på samhällsvetenskapens vetenskapsteori – Israel, Joachim (In Swedish) ISBN 91-29-43746-6
"Manifesto of the Communist Party". www.marxists.org. Retrieved 9 December 2015.
Wlkowitz, Daniel J.; Working with Class: Social Workers and the Politics of Middle-Class Identity (University of North Carolina Press, 1999).
In Ancient Greece when the clan system [a] was declining. The classes[b] replaced the clan society when it became too small to sustain the needs of increasing population. The division of labor is also essential for the growth of classes.[11]: 39
Jens Hoff, "The Concept of Class and Public Employees". Acta Sociologica, vol. 28, no. 3, July 1985, pp. 207–26.
Learning to Labour: How Working Class Kids Get Working Class Jobs
The upper class[62] is the social class composed of those who are rich, well-born, powerful, or a combination of those. They usually wield the greatest political power. In some countries, wealth alone is sufficient to allow entry into the upper class. In others, only people who are born or marry into certain aristocratic bloodlines are considered members of the upper class and those who gain great wealth through commercial activity are looked down upon by the aristocracy as nouveau riche.[63] In the United Kingdom, for example, the upper classes are the aristocracy and royalty, with wealth playing a less important role in class status. Many aristocratic peerages or titles have seats attached to them, with the holder of the title (e.g. Earl of Bristol) and his family being the custodians of the house, but not the owners. Many of these require high expenditures, so wealth is typically needed. Many aristocratic peerages and their homes are parts of estates, owned and run by the title holder with moneys generated by the land, rents or other sources of wealth. However, in the United States where there is no aristocracy or royalty, the upper class status exclusive of Americans of ancestral wealth or patricians of European ancestry is referred to in the media as the extremely wealthy, the so-called "super-rich", though there is some tendency even in the United States for those with old family wealth to look down on those who have accrued their money through business, the struggle between new money and old money.
^ Streeter, Calvin L. (2008). "Community".In Mizrahi, Terry (ed.). Encyclopedia of social work, Volume 1. Oxford University Press. p. 352. ISBN 978-0-19-530661-3.
^ Weber, Max (2015/1921). "Classes, Stände, Parties" in Weber's Rationalism and Modern Society, edited and translated by Tony Waters and Dagmar Waters, pp. 37–57.
In the UK, a 2015 government study by the Social Mobility Commission suggested the existence of a "glass floor" in British society preventing those who are less able, but who come from wealthier backgrounds, from slipping down the social ladder. The report proposed a 35% greater likelihood of less able, better-off children becoming high earners than bright poor children.[95]
A person's social class often affects their physical health, their ability to receive adequate medical care and nutrition and their life expectancy.[89][90][91]
The working class is sometimes separated into those who are employed but lacking financial security (the "working poor") and an underclass—those who are long-term unemployed and/or homeless, especially those receiving welfare from the state. The latter is today considered analogous to the Marxist term "lumpenproletariat". However, during the time of Marx's writing the lumpenproletariat referred to those in dire poverty; such as the homeless.[62] Members of the working class are sometimes called blue-collar workers.
A social class is a grouping of people into a set of hierarchical social categories,[1] the most common being the upper, middle and lower classes. Membership in a social class can for example be dependent on education, wealth, occupation, income, and belonging to a particular subculture or social network.[2]
^ Gilbert, Dennis (1998). The American Class Structure. New York: Wadsworth Publishing. ISBN 978-0-534-50520-2.
^ Manuelian, Peter Der (1998).Regine Schulz; Matthias Seidel (eds.). Egypt: The World of the Pharaohs. Cologne, Germany: Könemann. ISBN 978-3-89508-913-8.
Maclean, Mairi; Harvey, Charles; Kling, Gerhard (1 June 2014). "Pathways to Power: Class, Hyper-Agency and the French Corporate Elite" (PDF). Organization Studies. 35 (6): 825–55. doi:10.1177/0170840613509919. ISSN 0170-8406. S2CID 145716192.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Social class" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
As a result of conquest or internal ethnic differentiation, a ruling class is often ethnically homogenous and particular races or ethnic groups in some societies are legally or customarily restricted to occupying particular class positions. Which ethnicities are considered as belonging to high or low classes varies from society to society.
Fotopoulos, Takis, Class Divisions Today: The Inclusive Democracy approach, Democracy & Nature, Vol. 6, No. 2, (July 2000)
DiMaggio, Paul (1982). "Cultural Capital and School Success: The Impact of Status Culture Participation on the Grades of U.S. High School Students". American Sociological Review. 47 (2): 189–201. doi:10.2307/2094962. JSTOR 2094962.
"Inequalities in time from stopping paid work to death: findings from the ONS Longitudinal Study, 2001–2011"
Societies with large class differences have a greater proportion of people who suffer from mental health issues such as anxiety and depression symptoms.[34][35][36] A series of scientific studies have demonstrated this relationship.[37] Statistics support this assertion and results are found in life expectancy and overall health; for example, in the case of high differences in life expectancy between two Stockholm suburbs. The differences between life expectancy of the poor and less-well-educated inhabitants who live in proximity to the station Vårby gård, and the highly educated and more affluent inhabitants living near Danderyd differ by 18 years.[38][39]
Brown, D.F. (2009). "Social class and Status".In Mey, Jacob (ed.). Concise Encyclopedia of Pragmatics. Elsevier. p. 952. ISBN 978-0-08-096297-9.
Cribb, Jonathan (1 February 2013). "Income inequality in the UK". Institute for Fiscal Studies. Retrieved 11 November 2022.
^ Skeggs, Beverley (1992). "Paul Willis, Learning to Labour". In Barker, Martin & Beezer, Anne (eds.). Reading into Cultural Studies. London: Routledge, p.181. ISBN 978-0-4150-6377-7
"Slavery". An introduction to the history and culture of Pharaonic Egypt. Archived from the original on 30 August 2012.
Archer, Louise et al. Higher Education and Social Class: Issues of Exclusion and Inclusion (RoutledgeFalmer, 2003) (ISBN 0-415-27644-6)
Weber views class as a group of people who have common goals and opportunities that are available to them. This means that what separates each class from each other is their value in the marketplace through their own goods and services. This creates a divide between the classes through the assets that they have such as property and expertise.[18]
In Marxist theory, the class structure of the capitalist mode of production is characterized by the conflict between two main classes: the bourgeoisie, the capitalists who own the means of production and the much larger proletariat (or "working class") who must sell their own labour power (wage labour). This is the fundamental economic structure of work and property, a state of inequality that is normalized and reproduced through cultural ideology.
^ Weber, Max (1921/2015). "Classes, Stände, Parties" in Weber's Rationalism and Modern Society: New Translations on Politics, Bureaucracy and Social Stratification. Edited and Translated by Tony Waters and Dagmar Waters, pp. 37–58.
Please consider removing references to unnecessary or disreputable sources, merging citations where possible, or, if necessary, flagging the content for deletion.
^ Jones, Pip; Bradbury, Liz (2018). Introducing Social Theory (Third ed.). Cambridge, UK: Polity Press. pp. 104–114. ISBN 978-1-5095-0504-3.
The middle class is the most contested of the three categories, the broad group of people in contemporary society who fall socio-economically between the lower and upper classes.[66] One example of the contest of this term is that in the United States "middle class" is applied very broadly and includes people who would elsewhere be considered working class. Middle-class workers are sometimes called "white-collar workers".
"The Great British class calculator: People in the UK now fit into seven social classes, a major survey conducted by the BBC suggests". BBC. 3 April 2013. Retrieved 4 April 2013.
Lyall, Sarah (3 April 2013). "Multiplying the Old Divisions of Class in Britain". The New York Times. Retrieved 4 April 2013.
Middle class is the group of people with typical-everyday jobs that pay significantly more than the poverty line. Examples of these types of jobs are factory workers, salesperson, teacher, cooks and nurses. There is a new trend by some scholars which assumes that the size of the middle class in every society is the same. For example, in paradox of interest theory, middle class are those who are in 6th–9th decile groups which hold nearly 12% of the whole society's wealth.[69]
Weinburg, Mark; "The Social Analysis of Three Early 19th century French liberals: Say, Comte, and Dunoyer", Journal of Libertarian Studies, Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 45–63, (1978).
Hazelrigg, Lawrence E. & Lopreato, Joseph; Class, Conflict, and Mobility: Theories and Studies of Class Structure (1972).
^ Kerbo, Herald (1996). Social Stratification and Inequality. New York: The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. pp. 231–33. ISBN 978-0-07-034258-3.
Historically, social class and behavior were laid down in law. For example, permitted mode of dress in some times and places was strictly regulated, with sumptuous dressing only for the high ranks of society and aristocracy, whereas sumptuary laws stipulated the dress and jewelry appropriate for a person's social rank and station. In Europe, these laws became increasingly commonplace during the Middle Ages. However, these laws were prone to change due to societal changes, and in many cases, these distinctions may either almost disappear, such as the distinction between a patrician and a plebeian being almost erased during the late Roman Republic.
^ Karl Marx. Capital: An Analysis of Capitalist Production, Volume 1; Moscow; 1959; p. 332.
Bornschier V. (1996), 'Western society in transition' New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Publishers.
Mahalingam, Ramaswami; "Essentialism, Culture, and Power: Representations of Social Class" Journal of Social Issues, Vol. 59, (2003), pp. 733+ on India
3.5Three-level economic class model																								3.5.1Upper class																											3.5.2Middle class																											3.5.3Lower class
Theorists such as Ralf Dahrendorf have noted the tendency toward an enlarged middle class in modern Western societies, particularly in relation to the necessity of an educated work force in technological economies.[67] Perspectives concerning globalization and neocolonialism, such as dependency theory, suggest this is due to the shift of low-level labour to developing nations and the Third World.[68]
The inner level : how more equal societies reduce stress, restore sanity and improve everyone's well-being – Richard G Wilkinson; Kate Pickett ISBN 9780141975399
John Scott, Class: critical concepts (1996) Volume 2 P. 310
Payne, Geoff; The Social Mobility of Women: Beyond Male Mobility Models (1990)
^ Hurst, Allison L. (2009). "The Path to College: Stories of Students from the Working Class". Race, Gender & Class. 16 (1/2): 257–81. JSTOR 41658872.
Closing the gap in a generation : health equity through action on the social determinants of health : Commission on Social Determinants of Health final report. World Health Organization, Commission on Social Determinants of Health. 2008. ISBN 978-92-4-156370-3. OCLC 248038286.
Another distinction can be drawn between analytical concepts of social class, such as the Marxist and Weberian traditions, as well as the more empirical traditions such as socioeconomic status approach, which notes the correlation of income, education and wealth with social outcomes without necessarily implying a particular theory of social structure.[47]
Weber derived many of his key concepts on social stratification by examining the social structure of many countries. He noted that contrary to Marx's theories, stratification was based on more than simply ownership of capital. Weber pointed out that some members of the aristocracy lack economic wealth yet might nevertheless have political power. Likewise in Europe, many wealthy Jewish families lacked prestige and honor because they were considered members of a "pariah group".
^ Weapons of the weak : everyday forms of peasant resistance. ISBN 978-0-585-36330-1. OCLC 317459153.
^ Barbara Mendoza (5 October 2017). Artifacts from Ancient Egypt. ABC-CLIO. pp. 216–. ISBN 978-1-4408-4401-0.
^ Harris, Alexes (2016). "Monetary Sanctions as Punishment for the Poor". A Pound of Flesh: Monetary Sanctions as Punishment for the Poor. Russell Sage Foundation. ISBN 978-0-87154-461-2. JSTOR 10.7758/9781610448550.
^ Bihagen, Erik; Nermo, Magnus; Stern, Charlotta (October 2013). "Class Origin and Elite Position of Men in Business Firms in Sweden, 1993–2007: The Importance of Education, Cognitive Ability, and Personality". European Sociological Review. 29 (5): 939–954. doi:10.1093/esr/jcs070.
^ Lyall, Sarah (3 April 2013). "Multiplying the Old Divisions of Class in Britain". The New York Times. Retrieved 4 April 2013.
^ "Var du bor avgör när du dör" (in Swedish). 12 May 2014.
This page was last edited on 16 March 2023, at 07:06 (UTC).
Wood, Ellen Meiksins; The Retreat from Class: A New 'True' Socialism, (Schocken Books, 1986) (ISBN 0-8052-7280-1) and (Verso Classics, January 1999) reprint with new introduction (ISBN 1-85984-270-4).
^ Laureau, A. (2011). Unequal childhoods: Class, race, and family life. Univ of California Press.
Wilbur, Tabitha G.; Roscigno, Vincent J. (31 August 2016). "First-generation Disadvantage and College Enrollment/Completion". Socius. 2: 2378023116664351. doi:10.1177/2378023116664351. ISSN 2378-0231.
"Essays on Social Reproduction and Lifelong Learning". Skolporten. 14 April 2010. Retrieved 14 May 2020.
^ a b Kolata, Gina (2 November 2015). "Death Rates Rising for Middle-Aged White Americans, Study Finds". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 9 December 2015.
Serravallo, Vincent (2008). "Class".In Parrillo, Vincent N. (ed.). Encyclopedia of social problems, Volume 1. SAGE. p. 131. ISBN 978-1-4129-4165-5.
Wright, Erik Olin; The Debate on Classes (Verso, 1990). (neo-Marxist)
Kerbo, Herald (1996). Social Stratification and Inequality. New York: The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. pp. 231–33. ISBN 978-0-07-034258-3.
Savage, Mike; Devine, Fiona; Cunningham, Niall; Taylor, Mark; Li, Yaojun; Johs. Hjellbrekke; Brigitte Le Roux; Friedman, Sam; Miles, Andrew (2 April 2013). "A New Model of Social Class: Findings from the BBC's Great British Class Survey Experiment" (PDF). Sociology. 47 (2): 219–50. doi:10.1177/0038038513481128. S2CID 85546872.
The upper class is generally contained within the richest one or two percent of the population. Members of the upper class are often born into it and are distinguished by immense wealth which is passed from generation to generation in the form of estates.[64] Based on some new social and political theories upper class consists of the most wealthy decile group in society which holds nearly 87% of the whole society's wealth.[65]
Kuper, Adam, ed. (2004). "Class, Social". The social science encyclopedia. Taylor & Francis. p. 111. ISBN 978-0-415-32096-2.
Conley, Dalton (2017). "Stratification".In Bakeman, Karl (ed.). You May Ask Yourself: An Introduction to Thinking like a Sociologist (5th ed.). W.W. Norton & Company, Inc. ISBN 978-0393614275.
Eichar, Douglas M.; Occupation and Class Consciousness in America (Greenwood Press, 1989)
Giddens, Anthony & Mackenzie, Gavin (Eds.), Social Class and the Division of Labour. Essays in Honour of Ilya Neustadt (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1982).
Jones, Pip; Bradbury, Liz (2018). Introducing Social Theory (Third ed.). Cambridge, UK: Polity Press. pp. 104–114. ISBN 978-1-5095-0504-3.
^ McNamee, Stephen J. & Miller, Robert K. (2009). The meritocracy myth. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 199. ISBN 978-0-7425-6168-7.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
Stahl, Garth; "Identity, Neoliberalism and Aspiration: Educating White Working-Class Boys" (London, Routledge, 2015).
^ Brown, D.F. (2009). "Social class and Status".In Mey, Jacob (ed.). Concise Encyclopedia of Pragmatics. Elsevier. p. 952. ISBN 978-0-08-096297-9.
^ "Mera om massiva och dödliga klasskillnader". Svenska Dagbladet (in Swedish). 29 June 2019. ISSN 1101-2412.
^ "Manifesto of the Communist Party". www.marxists.org. Retrieved 9 December 2015.
Ostrander, Susan A.; Women of the Upper Class (Temple University Press, 1984).
de Ste. Croix, Geoffrey (July–August 1984). "Class in Marx's conception of history, ancient and modern". New Left Review. I (146): 94–111. (Good study of Marx's concept.)
^ Hunt, Stephen (2011). "class conflict".In Ritzer, George; Ryan, J. Michael (eds.). The Concise Encyclopedia of Sociology. John Wiley & Sons. p. 66. ISBN 978-1-4051-8353-6.
Drobnic, S.; Guillén, A. (2011). Work-Life Balance in Europe: The Role of Job Quality. Springer. p. 208. ISBN 9780230307582.
^ Budrys, Grace (2009). Unequal Health: How Inequality Contributes to Health Or Illness. Rowman & Littlefield. pp. 183–84. ISBN 978-0-7425-6507-4.
^ Barr, Donald A. (2008). Health disparities in the United States: social class, race, ethnicity, and health. JHU Press. pp. 1–2. ISBN 978-0-8018-8821-2.
^ Wilkinson, Richard G; Pickett, Kate (2019). The inner level : how more equal societies reduce stress, restore sanity and improve everyone's well-being. Penguin Books. ISBN 978-0-14-197539-9. OCLC 1091644373.
India (↑), Nepal, North Korea (↑), Sri Lanka (↑) and some Indigenous peoples maintain social classes today.
^ a b Escarce, José J (October 2003). "Socioeconomic Status and the Fates of Adolescents". Health Services Research. 38 (5): 1229–34. doi:10.1111/1475-6773.00173. ISSN 0017-9124. PMC 1360943. PMID 14596387.
"Mera om massiva och dödliga klasskillnader". Svenska Dagbladet (in Swedish). 29 June 2019. ISSN 1101-2412.
Karl Marx & Friedrich Engels. "Manifesto of the Communist Party", Selected Works, Volume 1; London,' 1943; p. 231
Stearns, Peter N., ed. (1994). "Middle class". Encyclopedia of social history. Taylor & Francis. p. 621. ISBN 978-0-8153-0342-8.
Lower class (occasionally described as working class) are those employed in low-paying wage jobs with very little economic security. The term "lower class" also refers to persons with low income.
On 2 April 2013, the results of a survey[56] conducted by BBC Lab UK developed in collaboration with academic experts and slated to be published in the journal Sociology were published online.[57][58][59][60][61] The results released were based on a survey of 160,000 residents of the United Kingdom most of whom lived in England and described themselves as "white". Class was defined and measured according to the amount and kind of economic, cultural and social resources reported. Economic capital was defined as income and assets; cultural capital as amount and type of cultural interests and activities; and social capital as the quantity and social status of their friends, family and personal and business contacts.[60] This theoretical framework was developed by Pierre Bourdieu who first published his theory of social distinction in 1979.
Manza, Jeff & Brooks, Clem; Social Cleavages and Political Change: Voter Alignments and U.S. Party Coalitions (Oxford University Press, 1999).
In the late 18th century, the term "class" began to replace classifications such as estates, rank and orders as the primary means of organizing society into hierarchical divisions.[fact or opinion?] This corresponded to a general decrease in significance ascribed to hereditary characteristics and increase in the significance of wealth and income as indicators of position in the social hierarchy.[7][8]
^ "The Class Structure in the U.S. | Boundless Sociology". courses.lumenlearning.com. Retrieved 5 March 2021.
"Social classes in ancient Egypt". Digital Egypt for Universities. University College London. 2003. Archived from the original on 13 December 2007.
The Random House Dictionary of the English Language, "nouveau riche French Usually Disparaging. a person who is newly rich", 1969, Random House
In class societies, the lower classes systematically receive lower-quality education and care.[41][42][43] There are more explicit effects where those within the higher class actively demonize parts of the lower-class population.[33]
Manza, Jeff; Hout, Michael; Clem, Brooks (1995). "Class Voting in Capitalist Democracies since World War II: Dealignment, Realignment, or Trendless Fluctuation?". Annual Review of Sociology. 21: 137–62. doi:10.1146/annurev.soc.21.1.137.
^ Lane, David (1 December 2005). "Social class as a factor in the transformation of state socialism". Journal of Communist Studies and Transition Politics. 21 (4): 417–435. doi:10.1080/13523270500363361. ISSN 1352-3279. S2CID 154779478.
^ Wilbur, Tabitha G.; Roscigno, Vincent J. (31 August 2016). "First-generation Disadvantage and College Enrollment/Completion". Socius. 2: 2378023116664351. doi:10.1177/2378023116664351. ISSN 2378-0231.
^ "Essays on Social Reproduction and Lifelong Learning". Skolporten. 14 April 2010. Retrieved 14 May 2020.
^ Mathisen, Daniel (8 June 2018). "Inte konstigt att klassamhället får oss att må dåligt" (in Swedish). Archived from the original on 20 June 2019. Retrieved 14 May 2020.
^ Ancient society. Transaction Publishers. 2000. ISBN 0-7658-0691-6. OCLC 44516641.
Mahony, Pat & Zmroczek, Christine; Class Matters: 'Working-Class' Women's Perspectives on Social Class (Taylor & Francis, 1997)
The conditions at a person's job vary greatly depending on class. Those in the upper-middle class and middle class enjoy greater freedoms in their occupations. They are usually more respected, enjoy more diversity and are able to exhibit some authority.[93] Those in lower classes tend to feel more alienated and have lower work satisfaction overall. The physical conditions of the workplace differ greatly between classes. While middle-class workers may "suffer alienating conditions" or "lack of job satisfaction", blue-collar workers are more apt to suffer alienating, often routine, work with obvious physical health hazards, injury and even death.[94]
For Bourdieu, the place in the social strata for any person is vaguer than the equivalent in Weberian sociology. Bourdieu introduced an array of concepts of what he refers to as types of capital. These types were economic capital, in the form assets convertible to money and secured as private property. This type of capital is separated from the other types of culturally constituted types of capital, which Bourdieu introduces, which are: personal cultural capital (formal education, knowledge); objective cultural capital (books, art); and institutionalized cultural capital (honours and titles).
"Global Stratification and Inequality | Introduction to Sociology". courses.lumenlearning.com. Retrieved 1 June 2020.
"Those Who Choose and Those Who Don't: Social Background and College Orientation"
Social Mobility and Child Poverty Commission. "New research exposes the 'glass floor' in British society". www.gov.uk. Retrieved 22 September 2015.
Encyclopedia of Western colonialism since 1450. Macmillan Reference USA. 2007. pp. 620, 849, 921, 64. ISBN 978-0-02-866085-1. OCLC 74840473.
Not a single Egyptian was, in our sense of the word, free. No individual could call in question a hierarchy of authority which culminated in a living god.
Tearing down the gates confronting the class divide in American education
Social Class and Classism in the Helping Professions: Research, Theory, and Practice
Akhbar-Williams, Tahira (2010). "Class Structure".In Smith, Jessie C. (ed.). Encyclopedia of African American Popular Culture, Volume 1. ABC-CLIO. p. 322. ISBN 978-0-313-35796-1.
Johnson, Janet H. (2002). "Women's Legal Rights in Ancient Egypt". Fathom Archive. University of Chicago.
Weber, Max. "Class, Status and Party", in e.g. Gerth, Hans and C. Wright Mills, From Max Weber: Essays in Sociology, (Oxford University Press, 1958). (Weber's key statement of the multiple nature of stratification).
Thomas, Scott L. & Bell, Angela (2007). "Social class and higher education: a reorganization of opportunities".In Weis, Lois (ed.). The Way Class Works: Readings on School, Family, and the Economy. Taylor & Francis. p. 273. ISBN 978-0-415-95707-6.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
Marx, Karl & Engels, Frederick; The Communist Manifesto, (1848). (The key statement of class conflict as the driver of historical change).
James, T.G.H. (2005). The British Museum Concise Introduction to Ancient Egypt. University of Michigan Press. ISBN 978-0-472-03137-5.
^ Baizidi, Rahim (17 July 2019). "Paradoxical class: paradox of interest and political conservatism in middle class". Asian Journal of Political Science. 27 (3): 272–285. doi:10.1080/02185377.2019.1642772. ISSN 0218-5377. S2CID 199308683.
^ Princeton University. "Social class". WordNet Search 3.1. Retrieved on: 2012-01-25.
"The Class Structure in the U.S. | Boundless Sociology". courses.lumenlearning.com. Retrieved 5 March 2021.
"Pathways to Power: Class, Hyper-Agency and the French Corporate Elite"
Max Weber formulated a three-component theory of stratification that saw social class as emerging from an interplay between "class", "status" and "power". Weber believed that class position was determined by a person's relationship to the means of production, while status or "Stand" emerged from estimations of honor or prestige.[55]
Manza, Jeff; "Political Sociological Models of the U.S. New Deal" Annual Review of Sociology, (2000) pp. 297+
A person's socioeconomic class has wide-ranging effects. It can determine the schools they are able to attend,[70][71][72][73][74][75] their health,[76] the jobs open to them,[70] when they exit the labour market,[77] whom they may marry[78] and their treatment by police and the courts.[79]
Baizidi, Rahim (2 September 2019). "Paradoxical class: paradox of interest and political conservatism in middle class". Asian Journal of Political Science. 27 (3): 272–285. doi:10.1080/02185377.2019.1642772. ISSN 0218-5377. S2CID 199308683.
McNamee, Stephen J. & Miller, Robert K. (2009). The meritocracy myth. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 199. ISBN 978-0-7425-6168-7.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
Angus Deaton and Anne Case have analyzed the mortality rates related to the group of white, middle-aged Americans between the ages of 45 and 54 and its relation to class. There has been a growing number of suicides and deaths by substance abuse in this particular group of middle-class Americans. This group also has been recorded to have an increase in reports of chronic pain and poor general health. Deaton and Case came to the conclusion from these observations that because of the constant stress that these white, middle aged Americans feel fighting poverty and wavering between the middle and lower classes, these strains have taken a toll on these people and affected their whole bodies.[76]
"Opinion | What Does Opportunity Look Like Where You Live?"
^ Liu, William Ming (2010). Social Class and Classism in the Helping Professions: Research, Theory, and Practice. SAGE. p. 29. ISBN 978-1-4129-7251-2.
^ Akhbar-Williams, Tahira (2010). "Class Structure".In Smith, Jessie C. (ed.). Encyclopedia of African American Popular Culture, Volume 1. ABC-CLIO. p. 322. ISBN 978-0-313-35796-1.
"Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 29 April 2019. Retrieved 14 May 2020.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
"The Great British class calculator: People in the UK now fit into seven social classes, a major survey conducted by the BBC suggests"
^ a b Jones, Owen Peter (2011). Chavs : the demonization of the working class : with new preface ([New] ed.). ISBN 978-1-78168-398-9. OCLC 1105199910.
"The Social Analysis of Three Early 19th century French liberals: Say, Comte, and Dunoyer"
Karl Marx & Friedrich Engels. "Manifesto of the Communist Party", Selected Works, Volume 1; London,' 1943; p. 231.
Mathisen, Daniel (8 June 2018). "Inte konstigt att klassamhället får oss att må dåligt" (in Swedish). Archived from the original on 20 June 2019. Retrieved 14 May 2020.
Manuelian, Peter Der (1998).Regine Schulz; Matthias Seidel (eds.). Egypt: The World of the Pharaohs. Cologne, Germany: Könemann. ISBN 978-3-89508-913-8.
Farmers made up the bulk of the population, but agricultural produce was owned directly by the state, temple, or noble family that owned the land.[13]: 383  Farmers were also subject to a labor tax and were required to work on irrigation or construction projects in a corvée system.[14]: 136  Artists and craftsmen were of higher status than farmers, but they were also under state control, working in the shops attached to the temples and paid directly from the state treasury. Scribes and officials formed the upper class in ancient Egypt, known as the "white kilt class" in reference to the bleached linen garments that served as a mark of their rank.[15]: 109  The upper class prominently displayed their social status in art and literature. Below the nobility were the priests, physicians, and engineers with specialized training in their field. It is unclear whether slavery as understood today existed in ancient Egypt; there is difference of opinions among authors.[16]
"A New Model of Social Class: Findings from the BBC's Great British Class Survey Experiment"
Grusky, David B. ed.; Social Stratification: Class, Race, and Gender in Sociological Perspective (2001) scholarly articles
Billard, Jules B. (1978). Ancient Egypt, Discovering Its Splendors. National Geographic Society. ISBN 9780870442209.
^ Drobnic, S.; Guillén, A. (2011). Work-Life Balance in Europe: The Role of Job Quality. Springer. p. 208. ISBN 9780230307582.
Baizidi, Rahim (17 July 2019). "Paradoxical class: paradox of interest and political conservatism in middle class". Asian Journal of Political Science. 27 (3): 272–285. doi:10.1080/02185377.2019.1642772. ISSN 0218-5377. S2CID 199308683.
Class conflict, frequently referred to as "class warfare" or "class struggle", is the tension or antagonism which exists in society due to competing socioeconomic interests and desires between people of different classes.
Class society or class-based society is an organizing principle society in which ownership of property, means of production, and wealth is the determining factor of the distribution of power, in which those with more property and wealth are stratified higher in the society and those without access to the means of production and without wealth are stratified lower in the society. In a class society, at least implicitly, people are divided into distinct social strata, commonly referred to as social classes or castes. The nature of class society is a matter of sociological research.[26][27][28] Class societies exist all over the globe in both industrialized and developing nations.[29] Class stratification is theorized to come directly from capitalism.[30] In terms of public opinion, nine out of ten people in a Swedish survey considered it correct that they are living in a class society.[31]
Fussell, Paul; Class (a painfully accurate guide through the American status system), (1983) (ISBN 0-345-31816-1)
The ancient Egyptians viewed men and women, including people from all social classes, as essentially equal under the law, and even the lowliest peasant was entitled to petition the vizier and his court for redress.[12]
The lower your social class, the ‘wiser’ you are, suggests new study. Science. 20 December 2017.
Sennett, Richard & Cobb, Jonathan; The Hidden Injuries of Class, (Vintage, 1972) (classic study of the subjective experience of class).
Since these distinctions are difficult to avoid, advocates of a classless society (such as anarchists and communists) propose various means to achieve and maintain it and attach varying degrees of importance to it as an end in their overall programs/philosophy.
"The Great British class calculator: Mike Savage from the London School of Economics and Fiona Devine from the University of Manchester describe their findings from The Great British Class Survey. Their results identify a new model of class with seven classes ranging from the Elite at the top to a 'Precariat' at the bottom"
Savage, Mike; Devine, Fiona (3 April 2013). "The Great British class calculator: Sociologists are interested in the idea that class is about your cultural tastes and activities as well as the type and number of people you know". BBC. Retrieved 4 April 2013.
^ Cribb, Jonathan (1 February 2013). "Income inequality in the UK". Institute for Fiscal Studies. Retrieved 11 November 2022.
Benschop, Albert. Classes – Transformational Class Analysis (Amsterdam: Spinhuis; 1993/2012).
^ Karl Marx & Friedrich Engels. "Manifesto of the Communist Party", Selected Works, Volume 1; London,' 1943; p. 231.
The lower your social class, the ‘wiser’ you are, suggests new study
Social classifications can also determine the sporting activities that such classes take part in. It is suggested that those of an upper social class are more likely to take part in sporting activities, whereas those of a lower social background are less likely to participate in sport. However, upper-class people tend to not take part in certain sports that have been commonly known to be linked with the lower class.[80]
Aneshensel, Carol S; Phelan, Jo C (1999). Handbook of the sociology of mental health. Kluwer Academic/Plenum Publishers. p. 152. ISBN 978-0-387-36223-6. OCLC 552063104.
^ Johnson, Janet H. (2002). "Women's Legal Rights in Ancient Egypt". Fathom Archive. University of Chicago.
Salmi, Peter (13 December 2017). "Kraftig ökning av psykisk ohälsa bland barn och unga vuxna". Socialstyrelsen (in Swedish). Archived from the original on 21 February 2018.
^ Grodsky, Eric; Riegle-Crumb, Catherine (1 January 2010). "Those Who Choose and Those Who Don't: Social Background and College Orientation". The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science. 627 (1): 14–35. doi:10.1177/0002716209348732. ISSN 0002-7162. S2CID 145193811.
Cohen, Lizabeth; Consumer's Republic, (Knopf, 2003) (ISBN 0-375-40750-2). (Historical analysis of the working out of class in the United States).
^ Billard, Jules B. (1978). Ancient Egypt, Discovering Its Splendors. National Geographic Society. ISBN 9780870442209.
^ a b "Ethnic and Racial Minorities & Socioeconomic Status". American Psychological Association. 2017. Retrieved 11 November 2022.
Find sources: "Social class" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Jakopovich, Daniel, The Concept of Class, Cambridge Studies in Social Research, No. 14, Social Science Research Group, University of Cambridge, 2014
Rubin, M., Denson, N., Kilpatrick, S., Matthews, K.E., Stehlik, T., & Zyngier, D. (2014). ""I am working-class": Subjective self-definition as a missing measure of social class and socioeconomic status in higher education research". Educational Researcher. 43 (4): 196–200. doi:10.3102/0013189X14528373. hdl:1959.13/1043609. S2CID 145576929.{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
Barr, Donald A. (2008). Health disparities in the United States: social class, race, ethnicity, and health. JHU Press. pp. 1–2. ISBN 978-0-8018-8821-2.
Harris, Alexes (2016). "Monetary Sanctions as Punishment for the Poor". A Pound of Flesh: Monetary Sanctions as Punishment for the Poor. Russell Sage Foundation. ISBN 978-0-87154-461-2. JSTOR 10.7758/9781610448550.
Gulliford, Martin (2003). "Equity and access to health care".In Gulliford, Martin; Morgan, Myfanwy (eds.). Access to health care. Psychology Press. p. 39. ISBN 978-0-415-27546-0.
Goldthorpe, John H. & Erikson Robert; The Constant Flux: A Study of Class Mobility in Industrial Society (1992)
Jean-Jacques Rousseau had a large influence over political ideals of the French Revolution because of his views of inequality and classes. Rousseau saw humans as "naturally pure and good," meaning that humans from birth were seen as innocent and any evilness was learned. He believed that social problems arise through the development of society and suppress the innate pureness of humankind. He also believed that private property is the main reason for social issues in society because private property creates inequality through the property's value. Even though his theory predicted if there were no private property then there would be wide spread equality, Rousseau accepted that there will always be social inequality because of how society is viewed and run.[18]
^ Willis, Paul (1977). Learning to Labour: How Working Class Kids Get Working Class Jobs. Farnborough: Saxon House. ISBN 978-0-5660-0150-5
Furthermore, "in countries where modern civilisation has become fully developed, a new class of petty bourgeois has been formed".[50] "An industrial army of workmen, under the command of a capitalist, requires, like a real army, officers (managers) and sergeants (foremen, over-lookers) who, while the work is being done, command in the name of the capitalist".[51]
Beckert, Sven, and Julia B. Rosenbaum, eds. The American Bourgeoisie: Distinction and Identity in the Nineteenth Century (Palgrave Macmillan; 2011) 284 pages; Scholarly studies on the habits, manners, networks, institutions, and public roles of the American middle class with a focus on cities in the North.
^ Aneshensel, Carol S; Phelan, Jo C (1999). Handbook of the sociology of mental health. Kluwer Academic/Plenum Publishers. p. 152. ISBN 978-0-387-36223-6. OCLC 552063104.
Race and other large-scale groupings can also influence class standing. The association of particular ethnic groups with class statuses is common in many societies, and is linked with race as well.[98] Class and ethnicity can impact a persons, or communities, Socioeconomic standing, which in turn influences everything including job availability and the quality of available health and education.[98] The labels ascribed to an individual change the way others perceive them, with multiple labels associated with stigma combining to worsen the social consequences of being labelled.[99]
In The Communist Manifesto, Marx himself argued that it was the goal of the proletariat itself to displace the capitalist system with socialism, changing the social relationships underpinning the class system and then developing into a future communist society in which: "the free development of each is the condition for the free development of all". This would mark the beginning of a classless society in which human needs rather than profit would be motive for production. In a society with democratic control and production for use, there would be no class, no state and no need for financial and banking institutions and money.[53][54]
Gilbert, Dennis (1998). The American Class Structure. New York: Wadsworth Publishing. ISBN 978-0-534-50520-2.
Blackledge, Paul (2011). "Why workers can change the world". Socialist Review. Vol. 364. London. Archived from the original on 10 December 2011.
^ Sacks, Peter (2007). Tearing down the gates confronting the class divide in American education. University of California Press. pp. 112–14. ISBN 978-0-520-24588-4.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
Age class systems : social institutions and polities based on age. Cambridge University Press. 1985. ISBN 0-521-30747-3. OCLC 11621536.
^ a b c d e Conley, Dalton (2017). "Stratification".In Bakeman, Karl (ed.). You May Ask Yourself: An Introduction to Thinking like a Sociologist (5th ed.). W.W. Norton & Company, Inc. ISBN 978-0393614275.
Giddens, Anthony; The Class Structure of the Advanced Societies, (London: Hutchinson, 1981).
Savage, Mike; Class Analysis and Social Transformation (London: Open University Press, 2000).
The precise measurements of what determines social class in society have varied over time. Karl Marx thought "class" was defined by one's relationship to the means of production (their relations of production). His understanding of classes in modern capitalist society is that the proletariat work but do not own the means of production, and the bourgeoisie, those who invest and live off the surplus generated by the proletariat's operation of the means of production, do not work at all. This contrasts with the view of the sociologist Max Weber, who argued that "class" is determined by economic position, in contrast to "social status" or "Stand" which is determined by social prestige rather than simply just relations of production.[5] The term "class" is etymologically derived from the Latin classis, which was used by census takers to categorize citizens by wealth in order to determine military service obligations.[6]
^ John Scott, Class: critical concepts (1996) Volume 2 P. 310
Owensby, Brian P.; Intimate Ironies: Modernity and the Making of Middle-Class Lives in Brazil (Stanford University, 1999).
^ Serravallo, Vincent (2008). "Class".In Parrillo, Vincent N. (ed.). Encyclopedia of social problems, Volume 1. SAGE. p. 131. ISBN 978-1-4129-4165-5.
Bisson, Thomas N.; Cultures of Power: Lordship, Status, and Process in Twelfth-Century Europe (University of Pennsylvania Press, 1995)
^ Stearns, Peter N., ed. (1994). "Middle class". Encyclopedia of social history. Taylor & Francis. p. 621. ISBN 978-0-8153-0342-8.
Sacks, Peter (2007). Tearing down the gates confronting the class divide in American education. University of California Press. pp. 112–14. ISBN 978-0-520-24588-4.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
Liu, William Ming (2010). Social Class and Classism in the Helping Professions: Research, Theory, and Practice. SAGE. p. 29. ISBN 978-1-4129-7251-2.
Fantasia, Rick; Levine, Rhonda F.; McNall, Scott G., eds.; Bringing Class Back in Contemporary and Historical Perspectives (Westview Press, 1991)
^ Karl Marx & Friedrich Engels. "Manifesto of the Communist Party", Selected Works, Volume 1; London,' 1943; p. 232-234.
^ Shin, Kwang-Yeong & Lee, Byoung-Hoon (2010). "Social class and educational opportunity in South Korea".In Attewell, Paul; Newman, Katherine S. (eds.). Growing gaps: educational inequality around the world. Oxford University Press. p. 105. ISBN 978-0-19-973218-0.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
These theorists have taken this binary class system and expanded it to include contradictory class locations, the idea that a person can be employed in many different class locations that fall between the two classes of proletariat and bourgeoisie. Erik Olin Wright stated that class definitions are more diverse and elaborate through identifying with multiple classes, having familial ties with people in different a class, or having a temporary leadership role.[18]
Marx believed that the exploitation and poverty inherent in capitalism were a pre-existing form of class conflict. Marx believed that wage labourers would need to revolt to bring about a more equitable distribution of wealth and political power.[96][97]
^ "Slavery". An introduction to the history and culture of Pharaonic Egypt. Archived from the original on 30 August 2012.
Lower-class people experience a wide array of health problems as a result of their economic status. They are unable to use health care as often and when they do it is of lower quality, even though they generally tend to experience a much higher rate of health issues. Lower-class families have higher rates of infant mortality, cancer, cardiovascular disease and disabling physical injuries. Additionally, poor people tend to work in much more hazardous conditions, yet generally have much less (if any) health insurance provided for them, as compared to middle- and upper-class workers.[92]
^ a b Savage, Mike; Devine, Fiona (3 April 2013). "The Great British class calculator: Mike Savage from the London School of Economics and Fiona Devine from the University of Manchester describe their findings from The Great British Class Survey. Their results identify a new model of class with seven classes ranging from the Elite at the top to a 'Precariat' at the bottom". BBC. Retrieved 4 April 2013.
Tracey Baptiste (15 December 2015). The Totally Gross History of Ancient Egypt. The Rosen Publishing Group, Inc. pp. 5–. ISBN 978-1-4994-3755-3.
Wood, Ellen Meiksins; "Labor, the State, and Class Struggle", Monthly Review, Vol. 49, No. 3, (1997).
^ Williams, Brian; Stacey C. Sawyer; Carl M. Wahlstrom (2005). Marriages, Families & Intimate Relationships. Boston: Pearson. ISBN 978-0-205-36674-3.
"The Great British class calculator: Sociologists are interested in the idea that class is about your cultural tastes and activities as well as the type and number of people you know"
^ "The Great British class calculator: People in the UK now fit into seven social classes, a major survey conducted by the BBC suggests". BBC. 3 April 2013. Retrieved 4 April 2013.
^ Encyclopedia of Western colonialism since 1450. Macmillan Reference USA. 2007. pp. 620, 849, 921, 64. ISBN 978-0-02-866085-1. OCLC 74840473.
Brady, David "Rethinking the Sociological Measurement of Poverty" Social Forces Vol. 81 No.3, (March 2003), pp. 715–51 (abstract online Archived 4 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine in Project Muse).
Penney, Robert (2003). "Class, social".In Christensen, Karen; Levinson, David (eds.). Encyclopedia of community: from the village to the virtual world, Volume 1. SAGE. p. 189. ISBN 978-0-7619-2598-9.
^ Closing the gap in a generation : health equity through action on the social determinants of health : Commission on Social Determinants of Health final report. World Health Organization, Commission on Social Determinants of Health. 2008. ISBN 978-92-4-156370-3. OCLC 248038286.
3Theoretical models											Toggle Theoretical models subsection																					3.1Marxist																											3.2Weberian																											3.3Bourdieu																											3.4Great British Class Survey																											3.5Three-level economic class model																								3.5.1Upper class																											3.5.2Middle class																											3.5.3Lower class
Today, concepts of social class often assume three general economic categories: a very wealthy and powerful upper class that owns and controls the means of production; a middle class of professional workers, small business owners and low-level managers; and a lower class, who rely on low-paying jobs for their livelihood and experience poverty.
Laureau, A. (2011). Unequal childhoods: Class, race, and family life. Univ of California Press.
^ Rubin, M., Denson, N., Kilpatrick, S., Matthews, K.E., Stehlik, T., & Zyngier, D. (2014). ""I am working-class": Subjective self-definition as a missing measure of social class and socioeconomic status in higher education research". Educational Researcher. 43 (4): 196–200. doi:10.3102/0013189X14528373. hdl:1959.13/1043609. S2CID 145576929.{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
For Marx, class is a combination of objective and subjective factors. Objectively, a class shares a common relationship to the means of production. The class society itself is understood as the aggregated phenomenon to the "interlinked movement", which generates the quasi-objective concept of capital.[48] Subjectively, the members will necessarily have some perception ("class consciousness") of their similarity and common interest. Class consciousness is not simply an awareness of one's own class interest but is also a set of shared views regarding how society should be organized legally, culturally, socially and politically. These class relations are reproduced through time.
^ Gulliford, Martin (2003). "Equity and access to health care".In Gulliford, Martin; Morgan, Myfanwy (eds.). Access to health care. Psychology Press. p. 39. ISBN 978-0-415-27546-0.
Connell, R.W and Irving, T.H., 1992. Class Structure in Australian History: Poverty and Progress. Longman Cheshire.
Wilkinson, Richard G; Pickett, Kate (2019). The inner level : how more equal societies reduce stress, restore sanity and improve everyone's well-being. Penguin Books. ISBN 978-0-14-197539-9. OCLC 1091644373.
^ DiMaggio, Paul (1982). "Cultural Capital and School Success: The Impact of Status Culture Participation on the Grades of U.S. High School Students". American Sociological Review. 47 (2): 189–201. doi:10.2307/2094962. JSTOR 2094962.
2Class society											Toggle Class society subsection																					2.1Comparative sociological research																											2.2Effect on the population
^ The Random House Dictionary of the English Language, "nouveau riche French Usually Disparaging. a person who is newly rich", 1969, Random House
Shin, Kwang-Yeong & Lee, Byoung-Hoon (2010). "Social class and educational opportunity in South Korea".In Attewell, Paul; Newman, Katherine S. (eds.). Growing gaps: educational inequality around the world. Oxford University Press. p. 105. ISBN 978-0-19-973218-0.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
Weapons of the weak : everyday forms of peasant resistance. ISBN 978-0-585-36330-1. OCLC 317459153.
^ EVOLUTION OF PROPERTY FROM SAVAGERY TO CIVILIZATION. HANSEBOOKS. 2017. ISBN 978-3-337-31218-3. OCLC 1104923720.
The existence of a class system dates back to times of Ancient Egypt, where the position of elite was also characterized by literacy.[9] The wealthier people were at the top in the social order and common people and slaves being at the bottom.[10] However, the class was not rigid; a man of humble origins could ascend to a high post.[11]: 38-
A "classless" society is one in which no one is born into a social class. Distinctions of wealth, income, education, culture or social network might arise and would only be determined by individual experience and achievement in such a society.
Siegelbaum, Lewis H. & Suny, Ronald; eds.; Making Workers Soviet: Power, Class, and Identity. (Cornell University Press, 1994). Russia 1870–1940
Broom, Leonard & Jones, F. Lancaster; Opportunity and Attainment in Australia (1977)
Dargin, Justin The Birth of Russia's Energy Class, Asia Times (2007) (good study of contemporary class formation in Russia, post communism)
^ Bornschier V. (1996), 'Western society in transition' New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Publishers.
^ Buchmann, Claudia; DiPrete, Thomas A. (23 June 2016). "The Growing Female Advantage in College Completion: The Role of Family Background and Academic Achievement". American Sociological Review. 71 (4): 515–41. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.487.8265. doi:10.1177/000312240607100401. S2CID 53390724.
Health disparities in the United States: social class, race, ethnicity, and health
^ "Global Stratification and Inequality | Introduction to Sociology". courses.lumenlearning.com. Retrieved 1 June 2020.
Brown, D.F. (2009). "Social class and Status".In Mey, Jacob (ed.). Concise Encyclopedia of Pragmatics. Elsevier. p. 953. ISBN 978-0-08-096297-9.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Grant, J. Andrew (2001). "class, definition of".In Jones, R.J. Barry (ed.). Routledge Encyclopedia of International Political Economy: Entries A–F. Taylor & Francis. p. 161. ISBN 978-0-415-24350-6.
Power: A person's ability to get their way despite the resistance of others. For example, individuals in state jobs, such as an employee of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or a member of the United States Congress, may hold little property or status, but they still hold immense power.
"Britain's Real Class System: Great British Class Survey". BBC Lab UK. Retrieved 4 April 2013.
Later Enlightenment thinkers viewed inequality as valuable and crucial to society's development and prosperity. They also acknowledged that private property will ultimately cause inequality because specific resources that are privately owned can be stored and the owners profit off of the deficit of the resource. This can create competition between the classes that was seen as necessary by these thinkers.[18] This also creates stratification between the classes keeping a distinct difference between lower, poorer classes and the higher, wealthier classes.
Ojämlikhetens dimensioner – Marie Evertsson & Charlotta Magnusson (red.) (In Swedish) ISBN 9789147111299
"[Classes are] large groups of people differing from each other by the place they occupy in a historically determined system of social production, by their relation (in most cases fixed and formulated in law) to the means of production, by their role in the social organization of labor, and, consequently, by the dimensions of the share of social wealth of which they dispose and the mode of acquiring it."
Wilson, Thomas C. (2002). "The Paradox of Social Class and Sports Involvement". International Review for the Sociology of Sport. 37: 5–16. doi:10.1177/1012690202037001001. S2CID 144129391.
Bihagen, Erik; Nermo, Magnus; Stern, Charlotta (October 2013). "Class Origin and Elite Position of Men in Business Firms in Sweden, 1993–2007: The Importance of Education, Cognitive Ability, and Personality". European Sociological Review. 29 (5): 939–954. doi:10.1093/esr/jcs070.
^ "Fattiga klarar cancer sämst". Svenska Dagbladet (in Swedish). 8 September 2008. ISSN 1101-2412.
Blau, Peter & Duncan Otis D.; The American Occupational Structure (1967) classic study of structure and mobility
One may use comparative methods to study class societies, using, for example, comparison of Gini coefficients, de facto educational opportunities, unemployment, and culture.[32][33]
Featherman, David L. & Hauser Robert M.; Opportunity and Change (1978).
Barbara Mendoza (5 October 2017). Artifacts from Ancient Egypt. ABC-CLIO. pp. 216–. ISBN 978-1-4408-4401-0.
Bhandar, Brenna (2014). "Property, Law, and Race: Modes of Abstraction". UC Irvine Law Review. 4 (1): 203–218. ISSN 2327-4514. Retrieved 11 November 2022.
^ Kuper, Adam, ed. (2004). "Class, Social". The social science encyclopedia. Taylor & Francis. p. 111. ISBN 978-0-415-32096-2.
^ Social Mobility and Child Poverty Commission. "New research exposes the 'glass floor' in British society". www.gov.uk. Retrieved 22 September 2015.
Karl Marx. Capital: An Analysis of Capitalist Production, Volume 1; Moscow; 1959; p. 332.
Murray, Emily T.; Carr, Ewan; Zaninotto, Paola; Head, Jenny; Xue, Baowen; Stansfeld, Stephen; Beach, Brian; Shelton, Nicola (9 October 2019). "Inequalities in time from stopping paid work to death: findings from the ONS Longitudinal Study, 2001–2011". J Epidemiol Community Health. 73 (12): 1101–1107. doi:10.1136/jech-2019-212487. ISSN 0143-005X. PMID 31611238. S2CID 204703259.
^ The concise encyclopedia of sociology. Wiley-Blackwell. 2011. p. 66. ISBN 978-1-4443-9263-0. OCLC 701327736.
Barbrook, Richard (2006). The Class of the New (paperback ed.). London: OpenMute. ISBN 978-0-9550664-7-4. Archived from the original on 1 August 2018. Retrieved 15 March 2022.
Lane, David (1 December 2005). "Social class as a factor in the transformation of state socialism". Journal of Communist Studies and Transition Politics. 21 (4): 417–435. doi:10.1080/13523270500363361. ISSN 1352-3279. S2CID 154779478.
The concise encyclopedia of sociology. Wiley-Blackwell. 2011. p. 66. ISBN 978-1-4443-9263-0. OCLC 701327736.
Class: A person's economic position in a society. Weber differs from Marx in that he does not see this as the supreme factor in stratification. Weber noted how managers of corporations or industries control firms they do not own.
For Marxists, every person in the process of production has separate social relationships and issues. Along with this, every person is placed into different groups that have similar interests and values that can differ drastically from group to group. Class is special in that does not relate to specifically to a singular person, but to a specific role.[18]
^ McDonough, Patricia M. (1997). Choosing colleges: how social class and schools structure opportunity. SUNY Press. pp. 1–2. ISBN 978-0-7914-3477-2.
Keller, Suzanne (2017). Beyond the Ruling Class: Strategic Elites in Modern Society. Routledge. ISBN 9781351289184.
Weber, Max (1921/2015). "Classes, Stände, Parties" in Weber's Rationalism and Modern Society: New Translations on Politics, Bureaucracy and Social Stratification. Edited and Translated by Tony Waters and Dagmar Waters, pp. 37–58.
Hurst, Allison L. (2009). "The Path to College: Stories of Students from the Working Class". Race, Gender & Class. 16 (1/2): 257–81. JSTOR 41658872.
Hunt, Stephen (2011). "class conflict".In Ritzer, George; Ryan, J. Michael (eds.). The Concise Encyclopedia of Sociology. John Wiley & Sons. p. 66. ISBN 978-1-4051-8353-6.
Aronowitz, Stanley, How Class Works: Power and Social Movement, Yale University Press, 2003. ISBN 0-300-10504-5
^ Karl Marx & Friedrich Engels. "Manifesto of the Communist Party", Selected Works, Volume 1; London,' 1943; p. 231
Wright, Erik Olin ed. Approaches to Class Analysis (2005). (scholarly articles)
^ Savage, Mike; Devine, Fiona; Cunningham, Niall; Taylor, Mark; Li, Yaojun; Johs. Hjellbrekke; Brigitte Le Roux; Friedman, Sam; Miles, Andrew (2 April 2013). "A New Model of Social Class: Findings from the BBC's Great British Class Survey Experiment" (PDF). Sociology. 47 (2): 219–50. doi:10.1177/0038038513481128. S2CID 85546872.
Leonhardt, David; Serkez, Yaryna (13 May 2020). "Opinion | What Does Opportunity Look Like Where You Live?". The New York Times.
^ Bhandar, Brenna (2014). "Property, Law, and Race: Modes of Abstraction". UC Irvine Law Review. 4 (1): 203–218. ISSN 2327-4514. Retrieved 11 November 2022.
Definitions of social classes reflect a number of sociological perspectives, informed by anthropology, economics, psychology and sociology. The major perspectives historically have been Marxism and structural functionalism. The common stratum model of class divides society into a simple hierarchy of working class, middle class and upper class. Within academia, two broad schools of definitions emerge: those aligned with 20th-century sociological stratum models of class society and those aligned with the 19th-century historical materialist economic models of the Marxists and anarchists.[44][45][46]
Merriman, John M.; Consciousness and Class Experience in Nineteenth-Century Europe (Holmes & Meier Publishers, 1979)
Weber, Max (2015/1921). "Classes, Stände, Parties" in Weber's Rationalism and Modern Society, edited and translated by Tony Waters and Dagmar Waters, pp. 37–57.
^ Savage, Mike; Devine, Fiona (3 April 2013). "The Great British class calculator: Sociologists are interested in the idea that class is about your cultural tastes and activities as well as the type and number of people you know". BBC. Retrieved 4 April 2013.
A person's social class has a significant effect on their educational opportunities. Not only are upper-class parents able to send their children to exclusive schools that are perceived to be better, but in many places, state-supported schools for children of the upper class are of a much higher quality than those the state provides for children of the lower classes.[81][82][83][84][85][86] This lack of good schools is one factor that perpetuates the class divide across generations.
^ Salmi, Peter (13 December 2017). "Kraftig ökning av psykisk ohälsa bland barn och unga vuxna". Socialstyrelsen (in Swedish). Archived from the original on 21 February 2018.
"Kraftig ökning av psykisk ohälsa bland barn och unga vuxna"
Status: A person's prestige, social honour or popularity in a society. Weber noted that political power was not rooted in capital value solely, but also in one's status. Poets and saints, for example, can possess immense influence on society with often little economic worth.
"Ethnic and Racial Minorities & Socioeconomic Status". American Psychological Association. 2017. Retrieved 11 November 2022.
The inner level : how more equal societies reduce stress, restore sanity and improve everyone's well-being
Marxists explain the history of "civilized" societies in terms of a war of classes between those who control production and those who produce the goods or services in society. In the Marxist view of capitalism, this is a conflict between capitalists (bourgeoisie) and wage-workers (the proletariat). For Marxists, class antagonism is rooted in the situation that control over social production necessarily entails control over the class which produces goods—in capitalism this is the exploitation of workers by the bourgeoisie.[49]
Buchmann, Claudia; DiPrete, Thomas A. (23 June 2016). "The Growing Female Advantage in College Completion: The Role of Family Background and Academic Achievement". American Sociological Review. 71 (4): 515–41. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.487.8265. doi:10.1177/000312240607100401. S2CID 53390724.
Pakulski, Jan & Waters, Malcolm; The Death of Class (Sage, 1996). (rejection of the relevance of class for modern societies)
In the UK, the educational consequences of class position have been discussed by scholars inspired by the cultural studies framework of the CCCS and/or, especially regarding working-class girls, feminist theory. On working-class boys, Paul Willis' 1977 book Learning to Labour: How Working Class Kids Get Working Class Jobs is seen within the British Cultural Studies field as a classic discussion of their antipathy to the acquisition of knowledge.[87] Beverley Skeggs described Learning to Labour as a study on the "irony" of "how the process of cultural and economic reproduction is made possible by 'the lads' ' celebration of the hard, macho world of work."[88]
^ Tracey Baptiste (15 December 2015). The Totally Gross History of Ancient Egypt. The Rosen Publishing Group, Inc. pp. 5–. ISBN 978-1-4994-3755-3.
Escarce, José J (October 2003). "Socioeconomic Status and the Fates of Adolescents". Health Services Research. 38 (5): 1229–34. doi:10.1111/1475-6773.00173. ISSN 0017-9124. PMC 1360943. PMID 14596387.
Dahrendorf, Ralf. (1959) Class and Class Conflict in Industrial Society. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
For Marx, the history of class society was a history of class conflict. He pointed to the successful rise of the bourgeoisie and the necessity of revolutionary violence—a heightened form of class conflict—in securing the bourgeois rights that supported the capitalist economy.
^ a b Brown, D.F. (2009). "Social class and Status".In Mey, Jacob (ed.). Concise Encyclopedia of Pragmatics. Elsevier. p. 953. ISBN 978-0-08-096297-9.
Princeton University. "Social class". WordNet Search 3.1. Retrieved on: 2012-01-25.
^ a b c Keller, Suzanne (2017). Beyond the Ruling Class: Strategic Elites in Modern Society. Routledge. ISBN 9781351289184.
Zmroczek, Christine & Mahony, Pat (Eds.), Women and Social Class: International Feminist Perspectives. (London: UCL Press 1999)
Postone, Moishe (1993). Time, Labor, and Social Domination: A Reinterpretation of Marx's Critical Theory. via libcom.org. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-39157-1. OCLC 26853972.
^ "Social classes in ancient Egypt". Digital Egypt for Universities. University College London. 2003. Archived from the original on 13 December 2007.
^ Penney, Robert (2003). "Class, social".In Christensen, Karen; Levinson, David (eds.). Encyclopedia of community: from the village to the virtual world, Volume 1. SAGE. p. 189. ISBN 978-0-7619-2598-9.
McDonough, Patricia M. (1997). Choosing colleges: how social class and schools structure opportunity. SUNY Press. pp. 1–2. ISBN 978-0-7914-3477-2.
^ a b Age class systems : social institutions and polities based on age. Cambridge University Press. 1985. ISBN 0-521-30747-3. OCLC 11621536.
Grodsky, Eric; Riegle-Crumb, Catherine (1 January 2010). "Those Who Choose and Those Who Don't: Social Background and College Orientation". The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science. 627 (1): 14–35. doi:10.1177/0002716209348732. ISSN 0002-7162. S2CID 145193811.
Marx makes the argument that, as the bourgeoisie reach a point of wealth accumulation, they hold enough power as the dominant class to shape political institutions and society according to their own interests. Marx then goes on to claim that the non-elite class, owing to their large numbers, have the power to overthrow the elite and create an equal society.[52]
Time, Labor, and Social Domination: A Reinterpretation of Marx's Critical Theory
Kolata, Gina (2 November 2015). "Death Rates Rising for Middle-Aged White Americans, Study Finds". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 9 December 2015.
^ "Skillnad mellan rika och fattigas överlevnad i bröstcancer". www.dagensmedicin.se.
Marmot, Michael; The Status Syndrome: How Social Standing Affects Our Health and Longevity (2004)
Hymowitz, Kay; Marriage and Caste in America: Separate and Unequal Families in a Post-Marital Age (2006) ISBN 1-56663-709-0
Domhoff, G. William, "The Class Domination Theory of Power", University of California, Santa Cruz
In modern societies, strict legal links between ethnicity and class have been drawn, such as the caste system in Africa, apartheid, the position of the Burakumin in Japanese society and the casta system in Latin America.[citation needed]
Skeggs, Beverley (1992). "Paul Willis, Learning to Labour". In Barker, Martin & Beezer, Anne (eds.). Reading into Cultural Studies. London: Routledge, p.181. ISBN 978-0-4150-6377-7
Willis, Paul (1977). Learning to Labour: How Working Class Kids Get Working Class Jobs. Farnborough: Saxon House. ISBN 978-0-5660-0150-5
Although slaves were mostly used as indentured servants, they were able to buy and sell their servitude, work their way to freedom or nobility, and were usually treated by doctors in the workplace.[17]
Wouters, Cas.; "The Integration of Social Classes". Journal of Social History. Volume 29, Issue 1, (1995). pp 107+. (on social manners)
^ Maclean, Mairi; Harvey, Charles; Kling, Gerhard (1 June 2014). "Pathways to Power: Class, Hyper-Agency and the French Corporate Elite" (PDF). Organization Studies. 35 (6): 825–55. doi:10.1177/0170840613509919. ISSN 0170-8406. S2CID 145716192.
Kaeble, Helmut; Social Mobility in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries: Europe and America in Comparative Perspective (1985)
4Consequences of class position											Toggle Consequences of class position subsection																					4.1Social privilege																											4.2Education																											4.3Health and nutrition																											4.4Employment
^ James, T.G.H. (2005). The British Museum Concise Introduction to Ancient Egypt. University of Michigan Press. ISBN 978-0-472-03137-5.
Williams, Brian; Stacey C. Sawyer; Carl M. Wahlstrom (2005). Marriages, Families & Intimate Relationships. Boston: Pearson. ISBN 978-0-205-36674-3.
In class societies, class conflict has tended to recur or is ongoing, depending on the sociological and anthropolitical perspective.[19][20] Class societies have not always existed; there have been widely different types of class communities.[21][22][23] For example, societies based on age rather than capital.[24] During colonialism, social relations were dismantled by force, which gave rise to societies based on the social categories of waged labor, private property, and capital.[24][25]
^ Wilson, Thomas C. (2002). "The Paradox of Social Class and Sports Involvement". International Review for the Sociology of Sport. 37: 5–16. doi:10.1177/1012690202037001001. S2CID 144129391.
"Class" is a subject of analysis for sociologists, political scientists, anthropologists and social historians. The term has a wide range of sometimes conflicting meanings, and there is no broad consensus on a definition of "class". Some people argue that due to social mobility, class boundaries do not exist. In common parlance, the term "social class" is usually synonymous with "socio-economic class", defined as "people having the same social, economic, cultural, political or educational status", e.g., "the working class"; "an emerging professional class".[3] However, academics distinguish social class from socioeconomic status, using the former to refer to one's relatively stable sociocultural background and the latter to refer to one's current social and economic situation which is consequently more changeable over time.[4]
Bertaux, Daniel & Thomson, Paul; Pathways to Social Class: A Qualitative Approach to Social Mobility (Clarendon Press, 1997)
"Fattiga klarar cancer sämst". Svenska Dagbladet (in Swedish). 8 September 2008. ISSN 1101-2412.
^ Murray, Emily T.; Carr, Ewan; Zaninotto, Paola; Head, Jenny; Xue, Baowen; Stansfeld, Stephen; Beach, Brian; Shelton, Nicola (9 October 2019). "Inequalities in time from stopping paid work to death: findings from the ONS Longitudinal Study, 2001–2011". J Epidemiol Community Health. 73 (12): 1101–1107. doi:10.1136/jech-2019-212487. ISSN 0143-005X. PMID 31611238. S2CID 204703259.
^ Thomas, Scott L. & Bell, Angela (2007). "Social class and higher education: a reorganization of opportunities".In Weis, Lois (ed.). The Way Class Works: Readings on School, Family, and the Economy. Taylor & Francis. p. 273. ISBN 978-0-415-95707-6.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
^ "Klassamhället åter anser 9 av 10". Svenska Dagbladet (in Swedish). 26 April 2004. ISSN 1101-2412.
Wright, Erik Olin; Class Counts: Comparative Studies in Class Analysis (Cambridge University Press, 1997)
Streeter, Calvin L. (2008). "Community".In Mizrahi, Terry (ed.). Encyclopedia of social work, Volume 1. Oxford University Press. p. 352. ISBN 978-0-19-530661-3.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Grant, J. Andrew (2001). "class, definition of".In Jones, R.J. Barry (ed.). Routledge Encyclopedia of International Political Economy: Entries A–F. Taylor & Francis. p. 161. ISBN 978-0-415-24350-6.
Webster and his works The White Devil and The Duchess of Malfi are mentioned in the lyrics to the song My White Devil by Echo & The Bunnymen, included on their 1983 album Porcupine.[8]
Webster wrote one more play on his own: The Devil's Law Case (c. 1617–1619), a tragicomedy. His later plays were collaborative city comedies: Anything for a Quiet Life (c. 1621) co-written with Thomas Middleton and A Cure for a Cuckold (c. 1624) co-written with William Rowley. In 1624, he also co-wrote a topical play about a recent scandal, Keep the Widow Waking (with John Ford, Rowley and Dekker).[6] The play is lost, but its plot is known from a court case. He is believed to have contributed to the tragicomedy The Fair Maid of the Inn with John Fletcher, Ford and Phillip Massinger. His Appius and Virginia, probably written with Thomas Heywood, is of uncertain date.
"John Webster also attended the school, though probably after Mulcaster's retirement in 1586", Julia Briggs, This Stage Play World – Texts & Contexts 1580–1625, OUP, p. 196.
The 1982 detective novel The Skull Beneath the Skin by P. D. James centres on an ageing actress who plans to play Webster's drama The Duchess of Malfi in a Victorian castle theatre. The novel takes its title from T. S. Eliot's famous characterisation of Webster's work in his poem 'Whispers of Immortality'.
^ Serafin, Steven; Myer, Valerie Grosvenor (2003). The Continuum Encyclopedia of British Literature. Continuum. pp. 1032. ISBN 0-8264-1456-7.
^ "John Webster also attended the school, though probably after Mulcaster's retirement in 1586", Julia Briggs, This Stage Play World – Texts & Contexts 1580–1625, OUP, p. 196.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Forker, Charles (1995). Skull Beneath the Skin. Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press. ISBN 978-0-8093-1279-5.
The White Devil was performed in the Red Bull Theatre, an open-air theatre that is believed to have specialised in providing simple, escapist drama for a largely working-class audience, a factor that might explain why Webster's intellectual and complex play was unpopular with its audience. In contrast, The Duchess of Malfi was probably performed by the King's Men in the smaller, indoor Blackfriars Theatre, where it might have been appreciated by a better educated audience. The two plays would thus have been played very differently: The White Devil by adult actors, probably in continuous action, with elaborate stage effects a possibility, and The Duchess of Malfi in a controlled environment, with artificial lighting and musical interludes between acts, which allowed time, perhaps, for the audience to accept the otherwise strange rapidity with which the Duchess could have babies.
A young John Webster, played by Joe Roberts, appears in the 1998 film Shakespeare in Love. When talking to Will Shakespeare he tells him, "When I write plays they'll be like Titus... plenty of blood – that's the only writing." The scene alludes to the real John Webster's macabre work. He is also the character who reveals Viola's disguise, after watching Viola and Shakespeare making love in the theatre.
Fernie, Ewan; Wray, Ramona; Thornton Burnett, Mark; McManus, Clare (31 March 2005). Reconceiving the Renaissance: A Critical Reader. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 163. ISBN 0-19-926557-7.
^ "Echo & The Bunnymen – My White Devil Lyrics – MetroLyrics". metrolyrics.com. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)
^ a b c Webster, John; Gunby, David; Carnegie, David; MacDonald P Jackson (2007). The Works of John Webster (An Old-Spelling Critical ed.). Cambridge: University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-26061-9.
Serafin, Steven; Myer, Valerie Grosvenor (2003). The Continuum Encyclopedia of British Literature. Continuum. pp. 1032. ISBN 0-8264-1456-7.
^ Rene Weis, editor of John Webster: The Duchess of Malfi and Other Plays (Oxford World's Classics, 1996) in programme notes for The Duchess of Malfi, The Old Vic, spring 2012.
Mike Figgis's 2001 film Hotel involves scenes from The Duchess of Malfi.
The 18th-century play The Fatal Secret by Lewis Theobald is a reworking of The Duchess of Malfi, imposing Aristotle's 'unities' and a happy ending on the plot.
By 1602, Webster was working with teams of playwrights on history plays, most of which were never printed. They included a tragedy, Caesar's Fall (written with Michael Drayton, Thomas Dekker, Thomas Middleton and Anthony Munday), and a collaboration with Dekker, Christmas Comes but Once a Year (1602).[6] With Dekker he also wrote Sir Thomas Wyatt, which was printed in 1607 and had probably been first performed in 1602. He worked with Dekker again on two city comedies, Westward Ho in 1604 and Northward Ho in 1605. Also in 1604, he adapted John Marston's The Malcontent for staging by the King's Men.
"Echo & The Bunnymen – My White Devil Lyrics – MetroLyrics"
This page was last edited on 15 March 2023, at 13:31 (UTC).
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Forker, Charles (1995). Skull Beneath the Skin. Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press. ISBN 978-0-8093-1279-5.
Webster's line, "Cover her face; mine eyes dazzle: she died young", is used in the novel Queen of the Damned by Anne Rice, and in Sleeping Murder.
John Webster (c. 1578 – c. 1632) was an English Jacobean dramatist best known for his tragedies The White Devil and The Duchess of Malfi, which are often seen as masterpieces of the early 17th-century English stage.[1] His life and career overlapped with Shakespeare's.
Webster's intricate, complex, subtle and learned plays are difficult, but rewarding and are still frequently staged. Webster has gained a reputation as the Elizabethan and Jacobean dramatist with the most unsparingly dark vision of human nature. Even more than John Ford, whose 'Tis Pity She's a Whore is also bleak, Webster's tragedies present a horrific vision of humanity. In his poem "Whispers of Immortality", T. S. Eliot memorably says that Webster always saw "the skull beneath the skin".
^ "Part I: John Webster Merchant Taylor and Citizen of London" Skull Beneath the Skin: The Achievement of John Webster by Charles R. Forker (1986) Southern Illinois University Press; p. 7.
Most of what is otherwise known of him relates to his theatrical activities. Webster was still writing plays in the mid-1620s, but Thomas Heywood's Hierarchie of the Blessed Angels (licensed 7 November 1634) speaks of him in the past tense, implying he was then dead.
Works by John Webster in eBook form at Standard Ebooks
"Part I: John Webster Merchant Taylor and Citizen of London" Skull Beneath the Skin: The Achievement of John Webster by Charles R. Forker (1986) Southern Illinois University Press; p. 7.
^ Fernie, Ewan; Wray, Ramona; Thornton Burnett, Mark; McManus, Clare (31 March 2005). Reconceiving the Renaissance: A Critical Reader. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 163. ISBN 0-19-926557-7.
"Echo & The Bunnymen – My White Devil Lyrics – MetroLyrics". metrolyrics.com. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)
Webster's life is obscure and the dates of his birth and death are not known. His father, a carriage maker also named John Webster, married a blacksmith's daughter named Elizabeth Coates on 4 November 1577 and it is likely that Webster was born not long after, in or near London. The family lived in St Sepulchre's parish. His father John and uncle Edward were Freemen of the Merchant Taylors' Company and Webster attended Merchant Taylors' School in Suffolk Lane, London.[2] On 1 August 1598, "John Webster, lately of the New Inn" was admitted to the Middle Temple, one of the Inns of Court; in view of the legal interests evident in his dramatic work, this may be the playwright.[3] Webster married 17-year-old Sara Peniall on 18 March 1605 at St Mary's Church, Islington.[4] A special licence was needed to permit a wedding in Lent, as Sara was seven months pregnant. Their first child, John Webster III, was baptised at the parish of St Dunstan-in-the-West on 8 March 1606.[5] Bequests in the will of a neighbour who died in 1617, indicate that other children were born to him.
In Episode 11, Season 2 of HBO's Boardwalk Empire, The White Devil is discussed in a Princeton classroom during a scene that takes place in Jimmy Darmody's past. At the end of the scene the teacher quotes the line "What, because we are poor shall we be vicious?" to which Jimmy responds "Pray what means have you to keep me from the galleys, or the gallows?" Later in the episode, the teacher refers to Jimmy's life as Jacobean.
The antagonist in Paul Johnston's 'The Death List' and 'The Soul Collector' mimics The White Devil in character-names and actions.
Webster's title character in The Duchess of Malfi is presented as a figure of virtue compared with her malevolent brothers. She faces death with classic Stoic courage in a martyr-like scene which has been compared to that of the king in Christopher Marlowe's play Edward II. Webster's use of a strong, virtuous woman as his main character was rare for his time and marks a deliberate reworking of some of the original historical events on which the play was based. The character of the Duchess recalls the Victorian poet and essayist Algernon Charles Swinburne's comment in A Study of Shakespeare that in tragedies such as King Lear Shakespeare had shown such a bleak world as a foil or backdrop for virtuous heroines such as Ophelia and Imogen, so that their characterisation would not seem too incredible. Swinburne describes such heroines as shining in the darkness.[citation needed]
Webster, John; Gunby, David; Carnegie, David; MacDonald P Jackson (2007). The Works of John Webster (An Old-Spelling Critical ed.). Cambridge: University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-26061-9.
"Part I: John Webster Merchant Taylor and Citizen of London"
Algernon Swinburne's The Age of Shakespeare, "John Webster" Archived 13 February 2012 at the Wayback Machine
Despite his ability to write comedy, Webster is best known for two brooding English tragedies based on Italian sources. The White Devil, a retelling of the intrigues involving Vittoria Accoramboni, an Italian woman assassinated at the age of 28, was a failure when staged at the Red Bull Theatre in 1612 (published the same year) being too unusual and intellectual for its audience. The Duchess of Malfi, first performed by the King's Men about 1614 and published nine years later, was more successful. He also wrote a play called Guise, based on French history, of which little else is known, as no text has survived.[6]
A fragment of Act Four, Scene Two, of The Duchess of Malfi is shown in the 1987 BBC TV film version of Agatha Christie's detective novel Sleeping Murder.
Webster's drama was generally dismissed in the 18th and 19th centuries, but many 20th-century critics and theatregoers have found The White Devil and The Duchess of Malfi brilliant plays of great poetic quality. One explanation for the change of view is that the horrors of war in the early 20th century had led to desperate protagonists being on stage again and understood. W. A. Edwards wrote of Webster's plays in Scrutiny II (1933–1934) "Events are not within control, nor are our human desires; let's snatch what comes and clutch it, fight our way out of tight corners, and meet the end without squealing." The violence and pessimism of the tragedies have seemed to some analysts close to modern sensibilities.[7]
Rene Weis, editor of John Webster: The Duchess of Malfi and Other Plays (Oxford World's Classics, 1996) in programme notes for The Duchess of Malfi, The Old Vic, spring 2012.
1Biography											Toggle Biography subsection																					1.1Early collaboration																											1.2The major tragedies																											1.3Late plays
Webster, a play by Robert David McDonald, was written for and premièred at the Glasgow Citizens Theatre, 1984.
The short story 'A Christmas in Padua' in F. L. Lucas's The Woman Clothed with the Sun (1937) retells the final hours in December 1585 of Vittoria Accoramboni (the original of Webster's White Devil), slanting the narrative from her perspective.
Crogman, W. H. (1884) Negro Education: Its Helps and Hindrances[1]
Grant, Donald Lee. The way it was in the South: The Black experience in Georgia. University of Georgia Press, 1993. p245
^ Seraile, William. Bruce Grit: The Black Nationalist Writings of John Edward Bruce. Univ. of Tennessee Press, 2003. p110-111
^ a b Tillery, Carolyn Quick. Southern homecoming traditions: Recipes and remembrances. Citadel Press, 2006. pages 326-328
Clark also erected the gothic Crogman Chapel in his honor.[4] The William H. Krogman Cottage is named after him.[7]
Crogman, William Henry. Talks for the Times. Press of Franklin Printing & Publishing Company, 1896.
L. M. Hershaw, George A. Towns, J. R. Van Pelt and Edward A. Arnold, Notes, The Journal of Negro History Vol. 19, No. 2 (Apr., 1934), pp. 211-224
W. H. Crogman Talks for the Times South Atlanta, Georgia: Franklin, 1896, 45-69.
This page was last edited on 17 March 2023, at 14:56 (UTC).
Crogman retired in 1921 and was awarded a lifetime pension by the Carnegie Foundation.[7]
Tillery, Carolyn Quick. Southern homecoming traditions: Recipes and remembrances. Citadel Press, 2006.
In 1895, he was a driving force behind the Negro exhibit at the Cotton Exposition in Atlanta[5] and was Chief Exposition Commissioner for African Americans from Georgia. He was also a trustee at the Gammon Theological Seminary[4] He was a participant in the March 5, 1897 meeting to celebrate the memory of Frederick Douglass which founded the American Negro Academy led by Alexander Crummell.[6]
Tillery, Carolyn Quick. Southern homecoming traditions: Recipes and remembrances. Citadel Press, 2006. pages 326-328
He was married to a woman named Lavina Mott. When he retired, he moved to Philadelphia and lived with his daughter, Lottie Crogman Wright. Wright was the wife of Richard Wright, president of Wilberforce University in Ohio. He had two other daughters, Edith and Ada. Crogman died in Kansas City, Missouri on October 16, 1931, followed in a few days by his wife. He was buried in Atlanta.[4]
In the mid 1880s, he was a delegate to the National Association of Teachers convention in Madison, Wisconsin and as a layman represented the Savannah Conference in the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal church. In 1884, he was elected secretary of the conference. He was also appointed a delegate to the Ecumenical Council of Methodism in London.[2] In 1892, the General Conference selected him to be a member of a University Senate chosen by the bishops to determine the minimum requirements for the baccalaureate degree from associated schools.[4]
Works by or about William H. Crogman at Internet Archive
Simmons, William J., and Henry McNeal Turner. Men of Mark: Eminent, Progressive and Rising. GM Rewell & Company, 1887. p694-698
He was highly respected and beloved at Clark University, and worked for equality in education and civil rights. Rather than ride segregated streetcars, he walked the several miles between his home and the campus.[5] He was secretary of the Board of Trustees at Clark for many years.[2]From 1903 to 1910, he was president at the school.[4]
Seraile, William. Bruce Grit: The Black Nationalist Writings of John Edward Bruce. Univ. of Tennessee Press, 2003. p110-111
^ a b c d e f L. M. Hershaw, George A. Towns, J. R. Van Pelt and Edward A. Arnold, Notes, The Journal of Negro History Vol. 19, No. 2 (Apr., 1934), pp. 211-224
William Henry Crogman was born May 5, 1841 in Philipsburg, Sint Maarten an island in the Dutch Caribbean.[2] He was orphaned at 12 and moved to the United states at the age of 14 with a man named B. L. Boomer.[3] He attended schools in Massachusetts and had the chance to travel the world, visiting ports in Asia, Europe, Australia, and South America. After the American Civil War (1861-1865), he entered Pierce Academy in Middleborough, Massachusetts led by J. W. R. Jenks. He finished his study, and in 1870, started teaching at Claflin University in Orangeburg, South Carolina. After three years of teaching, in 1873, he enrolled at Atlanta University and in 1876 graduated as a part of the first class of the school. He then took a position at Clark University of Atlanta where he became professor of Greek and Latin.[2] He was the first person to receive a Doctor of Letters from Atlanta University, which was awarded as an honorary degree. He also received an honorary Doctor of Laws.[4]
^ a b Grant, Donald Lee. The way it was in the South: The Black experience in Georgia. University of Georgia Press, 1993. p245
He was a gifted orator and gave numerous important speeches, including a speech before the American Missionary Association at Chicago and the Freedmen's Aid Society of the Methodist Episcopal church at Ocean Grove, New Jersey in the early 1880s. In 1883, he gave two speeches from Henry Ward Beecher's pulpit at Plymouth Church in Brooklyn, New York which were printed in pamphlet form.[2]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}William H. Crogman (1884). "Negro Education: Its Helps and Hindrances". blackpast.org. Retrieved 2015-10-24.
William H. Crogman (May 5, 1841 - October 16, 1931) was a pioneering African American educator and classicist at Clark University of Atlanta in the United States. The William H Crogman School in Atlanta is named for him.[1]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}William H. Crogman (1884). "Negro Education: Its Helps and Hindrances". blackpast.org. Retrieved 2015-10-24.
^ a b c d e Simmons, William J., and Henry McNeal Turner. Men of Mark: Eminent, Progressive and Rising. GM Rewell & Company, 1887. p694-698
^ Blake, William. The Marriage of Heaven and Hell. 1793.
Some of the most notable illustrators of Paradise Lost included William Blake, Gustave Doré, and Henry Fuseli. However, the epic's illustrators also include John Martin, Edward Francis Burney, Richard Westall, Francis Hayman, and many others.
Adam is more gregarious than Eve and yearns for her company. He is completely infatuated with her. Raphael advises him to "take heed lest Passion sway / Thy Judgment" (5.635–636). But Adam's great love for Eve contributes to his disobedience to God.
Unlike the biblical Adam, before Milton's Adam leaves Paradise he is given a glimpse of the future of mankind by the Archangel Michael, which includes stories from the Old and New Testaments.
Gregory 2006, p. 178 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFGregory2006 (help).
Milton's 17th-century contemporaries by and large criticised his ideas and considered him as a radical, mostly because of his republican political views and heterodox theological opinions. One of Milton's most controversial arguments centred on his concept of what is idolatrous, which subject is deeply embedded in Paradise Lost.
^ Keats 1899, p. 408 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFKeats1899 (help).
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Paradise Lost: Introduction". Dartmouth College. Archived from the original on 24 May 2019. Retrieved 26 March 2010.
^ Quint 1993, pp. 325–326 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFQuint1993 (help).
Carey, John (22 July 1999),Danielson, Dennis (ed.), "Milton's Satan", The Cambridge Companion to Milton (2 ed.), Cambridge University Press, p. 161, doi:10.1017/ccol052165226x.011, ISBN 978-0-521-65226-1, retrieved 2 May 2022
Eve appeals to Adam for reconciliation of their actions. Her encouragement enables them to approach God, and sue for grace, bowing on supplicant knee, to receive forgiveness.In a vision shown to him by the Archangel Michael, Adam witnesses everything that will happen to Mankind until the Great Flood. Adam is very upset by this vision of the future, so Michael also tells him about Mankind's potential redemption from original sin through Jesus Christ (whom Michael calls "King Messiah").
^ Johnson, Samuel. Lives of the English Poets. New York: Octagon, 1967.
^ Carey, John (22 July 1999),Danielson, Dennis (ed.), "Milton's Satan", The Cambridge Companion to Milton (2 ed.), Cambridge University Press, pp. 160–174, doi:10.1017/ccol052165226x.011, ISBN 978-0-521-65226-1, retrieved 2 May 2022
Blank verse was not much used in the non-dramatic poetry of the 17th century until Paradise Lost, in which Milton used it with much license and tremendous skill. Milton used the flexibility of blank verse, and its capacity to support syntactic complexity, to the utmost. Milton also wrote Paradise Regained and parts of Samson Agonistes in blank verse.
In the 1667 version of Paradise Lost, the poem was divided into ten books. However, in the 1674 edition, the text was reorganized into twelve books.[8] In later printing, "Arguments" (brief summaries) were inserted at the beginning of each book.[9]
Mikics, D (2004), "Miltonic Marriage and the Challenge to History in Paradise Lost", Texas Studies in Literature and Language, 46 (1): 20–48, doi:10.1353/tsl.2004.0005, S2CID 161371845
Milton's God in Paradise Lost refers to the Son as "My word, my wisdom, and effectual might" (3.170). The poem is not explicitly anti-trinitarian, but it is consistent with Milton's convictions. The Son is the ultimate hero of the epic and is infinitely powerful—he single-handedly defeats Satan and his followers and drives them into Hell. After their fall, the Son of God tells Adam and Eve about God's judgment. Before their fall the Father foretells their "Treason" (3.207) and that Man
Patrides, C. A. The Age of Milton: Backgrounds to Seventeenth-century Literature (Manchester University, 1980), ISBN 0-7190-0770-4.
The writer and critic Samuel Johnson wrote that Paradise Lost shows off Milton's "peculiar power to astonish" and that Milton "seems to have been well acquainted with his own genius, and to know what it was that Nature had bestowed upon him more bountifully than upon others: the power of displaying the vast, illuminating the splendid, enforcing the awful, darkening the gloomy, and aggravating the dreadful".[35]
Empson's view is complex. John Leonard points out that "Empson never denies that Satan's plan is wicked. What he does deny is that God is innocent of its wickedness: 'Milton steadily drives home that the inmost counsel of God was the Fortunate Fall of man; however wicked Satan's plan may be, it is God's plan too [since God in Paradise Lost is depicted as being both omniscient and omnipotent].'"[29][page needed] Leonard calls Empson's view "a powerful argument"; he notes that this interpretation was challenged by Dennis Danielson in his book Milton's Good God (1982).[29][page needed]
7Interpretation and critique											Toggle Interpretation and critique subsection																					7.1Eighteenth-century critics																											7.2Christian epic
Kerrigan, W., ed. (2007), The Complete Poetry and Essential Prose of John Milton, New York: Random House, ISBN 978-0-679-64253-4, OCLC 81940956
Selected bibliography at the Milton Reading Room – includes background, biography, criticism.
Paradise Lost is, among other things, a poem about civil war. Satan raises "impious war in Heav'n" (i 43) by leading a third of the angels in revolt against God. The term "impious war" implies that civil war is impious. But Milton applauded the English people for having the courage to depose and execute King Charles I. In his poem, however, he takes the side of "Heav'n's awful Monarch" (iv 960). Critics have long wrestled with the question of why an antimonarchist and defender of regicide should have chosen a subject that obliged him to defend monarchical authority.
Quint 1993, pp. 325–326 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFQuint1993 (help).
Forsyth, N. (2003), The Satanic Epic, Princeton: Princeton University Press, ISBN 978-0-691-11339-5
Teskey, Gordon (2005). "Introduction". Paradise Lost: A Norton Critical Edition. New York: Norton. pp. xxvii-xxviii. ISBN 978-0393924282.
He is also charged with establishing a guard for Paradise.
But Adam's judgment is not always sound. And Eve is beautiful.
Abrahm, M. H., Stephen Greenblatt, eds. The Norton Anthology of English Literature. New York: Norton, 2000.
Meanwhile, Satan returns triumphantly to Hell, amid the praise of his fellow fallen angels. He tells them about how their scheme worked and Mankind has fallen, giving them complete dominion over Paradise. As he finishes his speech, however, the fallen angels around him become hideous snakes, and soon enough, Satan himself turns into a snake, deprived of limbs and unable to talk. Thus, they share the same punishment, as they shared the same guilt.
Van Nuis, H (May 2000), "Animated Eve Confronting Her Animus: A Jungian Approach to the Division of Labor Debate in Paradise Lost", Milton Quarterly, 34 (2): 48–56, doi:10.1111/j.1094-348X.2000.tb00619.x
In a similar vein, C. S. Lewis argued that there was no contradiction in Milton's position in the poem since "Milton believed that God was his 'natural superior' and that Charles Stuart was not."[29][page needed]
^ Abrahm, M. H., Stephen Greenblatt, eds. The Norton Anthology of English Literature. New York: Norton, 2000.
When examining the relationship between Adam and Eve, some critics apply either an Adam-centered or Eve-centered view of hierarchy and importance to God. David Mikics argues, by contrast, these positions "overstate the independence of the characters' stances, and therefore miss the way in which Adam and Eve are entwined with each other".[19] Milton's narrative depicts a relationship where the husband and wife (here, Adam and Eve) depend on each other and, through each other's differences, thrive.[19]Still, there are several instances where Adam communicates directly with God while Eve must go through Adam to God; thus, some have described Adam as her guide.[20][page needed]
^ Phaal, Miranda (2019). "The Treble Fall: An Interlocking Acrostic in Paradise Lost". Milton Quarterly. 53 (1): 67–68. doi:10.1111/milt.12285. ISSN 1094-348X. S2CID 202372407.
Keats 1899, p. 408 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFKeats1899 (help).
Adam and Eve are cast out of Eden, and Michael says that Adam may find "a paradise within thee, happier far". Adam and Eve now have a more distant relationship with God, who is omnipresent but invisible (unlike the tangible Father in the Garden of Eden).
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Paradise Lost: Introduction". Dartmouth College. Archived from the original on 24 May 2019. Retrieved 26 March 2010.
Lehnhof, K. (2004), "Paradise Lost and the Concept of Creation", South Central Review, 21 (2): 15–41, doi:10.1353/scr.2004.0021, S2CID 13244028
Outside of book illustrations, the epic has also inspired other visual works by well-known painters like Salvador Dalí who executed a set of ten colour engravings in 1974.[43] Milton's achievement in writing Paradise Lost while blind (he dictated to helpers) inspired loosely biographical paintings by both Fuseli[44] and Eugène Delacroix.[45]
Phaal, Miranda (2019). "The Treble Fall: An Interlocking Acrostic in Paradise Lost". Milton Quarterly. 53 (1): 67–68. doi:10.1111/milt.12285. ISSN 1094-348X. S2CID 202372407.
Milton first presented Adam and Eve in Book IV with impartiality. The relationship between Adam and Eve is one of "mutual dependence, not a relation of domination or hierarchy". While the author placed Adam above Eve in his intellectual knowledge and, in turn, his relation to God, he granted Eve the benefit of knowledge through experience. Hermine Van Nuis clarifies, that although there was stringency specified for the roles of male and female, Adam and Eve unreservedly accept their designated roles.[18] Rather than viewing these roles as forced upon them, each uses their assignment as an asset in their relationship with each other. These distinctions can be interpreted as Milton's view on the importance of mutuality between husband and wife.
^ a b c d e f g Leonard, John. "Introduction". Paradise Lost. New York: Penguin, 2000.
Al-Akhras, Sharihan; Green, Mandy (2017). Satanic whispers: Milton’s Iblis and the “Great Sultan”. The Seventeenth Century, 32:1, pp. 31–50. doi:10.1080/0268117X.2016.1252279.
Innocence and Virgin Modestie,Her vertue and the conscience of her worth,That would be woo'd, and not unsought be won. (8.501–503)
After eating the fruit, Adam and Eve have lustful sex. At first, Adam is convinced that Eve was right in thinking that eating the fruit would be beneficial. However, they soon fall asleep and have terrible nightmares, and after they awake, they experience guilt and shame for the first time. Realising that they have committed a terrible act against God, they engage in mutual recrimination.
In his introduction to the Penguin edition of Paradise Lost, the Milton scholar John Leonard notes: "John Milton was nearly sixty when he published Paradise Lost in 1667. The biographer John Aubrey (1626–1697) tells us that the poem was begun in about 1658 and finished in about 1663. However, parts were almost certainly written earlier, and its roots lie in Milton's earliest youth."[4] Leonard speculates that the English Civil War interrupted Milton's earliest attempts to start his "epic [poem] that would encompass all space and time".[4]
Broadbent, John (1972), Paradise Lost: Introduction, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 9780521096393
Milton made his views on idolatry more explicit with the creation of Pandæmonium and his allusion to Solomon's temple. In the beginning of Paradise Lost and throughout the poem, there are several references to the rise and eventual fall of Solomon's temple. Critics elucidate that "Solomon's temple provides an explicit demonstration of how an artefact moves from its genesis in devotional practice to an idolatrous end."[25] This example, out of the many presented, distinctly conveys Milton's views on the dangers of idolatry. Even if one builds a structure in the name of God, the best of intentions can become immoral in idolatry. The majority of these similarities revolve around a structural likeness, but as Lyle explains, they play a greater role. By linking Saint Peter's Basilica and the Pantheon to Pandemonium—an ideally false structure—the two famous buildings take on a false meaning.[26] This comparison best represents Milton's Protestant views, as it rejects both the purely Catholic perspective and the Pagan perspective.
^ Brisman 1973, pp. 7–8 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFBrisman1973 (help).
^ Rebhorn, Wayne A. "The Humanist Tradition and Milton's Satan: The Conservative as Revolutionary". SEL: Studies in English Literature 1500–1900, vol. 13, no. 1, The English Renaissance (Winter 1973), pp. 81–93.
with his whole posteritie must dye,Dye hee or Justice must; unless for himSom other able, and as willing, payThe rigid satisfaction, death for death. (3.210–212)
Harding, P (January 2007), "Milton's Serpent and the Birth of Pagan Error", SEL: Studies in English Literature 1500–1900, 47 (1): 161–177, doi:10.1353/sel.2007.0003, S2CID 161758649
Marshall, W. H. (January 1961), "Paradise Lost: Felix Culpa and the Problem of Structure", Modern Language Notes, 76 (1): 15–20, doi:10.2307/3040476, JSTOR 3040476
Black, J., ed. (March 2007), "Paradise Lost", The Broadview Anthology of British Literature, vol. A (Concise ed.), Peterborough, Ontario: Broadview Press, pp. 998–1061, ISBN 978-1-55111-868-0, OCLC 75811389
Johnson, Samuel. Lives of the English Poets. New York: Octagon, 1967.
^ Gregory 2006, p. 178 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFGregory2006 (help).
Frye, N. (1965), The Return of Eden: Five Essays on Milton's Epics, Toronto: University of Toronto Press
Although Satan's army inevitably loses the war against God, Satan achieves a position of power and begins his reign in Hell with his band of loyal followers, composed of fallen angels, which is described to be a "third of heaven". Similar to Milton's republican sentiments of overthrowing the King of England for both better representation and parliamentary power, Satan argues that his shared rebellion with the fallen angels is an effort to "explain the hypocrisy of God",[citation needed] and in doing so, they will be treated with the respect and acknowledgement that they deserve. As Wayne Rebhorn argues, "Satan insists that he and his fellow revolutionaries held their places by right and even leading him to claim that they were self-created and self-sustained" and thus Satan's position in the rebellion is much like that of his own real world creator.[28]
C. S. Lewis interpreted the poem as a genuine Christian morality tale.[29][page needed] Other critics, like William Empson, view it as a more ambiguous work, with Milton's complex characterization of Satan playing a large part in that perceived ambiguity.[29][page needed] Empson argued that "Milton deserves credit for making God wicked, since the God of Christianity is 'a wicked God'." Leonard places Empson's interpretation "in the [Romantic interpretive] tradition of William Blake and Percy Bysshe Shelley".[29][page needed]
The story of Adam and Eve's temptation and fall is a fundamentally different, new kind of epic: a domestic one. Adam and Eve are presented as having a romantic and sexual relationship while still being without sin. They have passions and distinct personalities. Satan, disguised in the form of a serpent, successfully tempts Eve to eat from the Tree by preying on her vanity and tricking her with rhetoric. Adam, learning that Eve has sinned, knowingly commits the same sin. He declares to Eve that since she was made from his flesh, they are bound to one another – if she dies, he must also die. In this manner, Milton portrays Adam as a heroic figure, but also as a greater sinner than Eve, as he is aware that what he is doing is wrong.
The Garden of Eden with the Fall of Man (1617)
Bradford, R. (July 1992), Paradise Lost (1st ed.), Philadelphia: Open University Press, ISBN 978-0-335-09982-5, OCLC 25050319
^ a b 2006, pp. 178–179 harvnb error: no target: CITEREF2006 (help).
In Sin, Death and the Devil (1792), James Gillray caricatured the political battle between Pitt and Thurlow as a scene from Paradise Lost. Pitt is Death and Thurlow Satan, with Queen Charlotte as Sin in the middle.
^ a b "John Milton". Poetry Foundation. 19 April 2018.
Eve is the second human created by God. God takes one of Adam's ribs and shapes it into Eve. Whether Eve is actually inferior to Adam is a vexed point. She is often unwilling to be submissive. Eve may be the more intelligent of the two. She is generally happy, but longs for knowledge, specifically for self-knowledge.[citation needed] When she first met Adam she turned away, more interested in herself. She had been looking at her reflection in a lake before being led invisibly to Adam. Recounting this to Adam she confesses that she found him less enticing than her reflection (4.477-480).Nonetheless, Adam later explains this to Raphael as Eve's
Milton scholar John Leonard interpreted the "impious war" between Heaven and Hell as civil war:[29][page needed]
Johnson, Kimberly (2012). "Raphael's "Potent Tongue": Power and Spectacle in "Paradise Lost"". Milton Quarterly. 46 (4): 205–218. doi:10.1111/milt.12010. ISSN 0026-4326. JSTOR 24462156.
Quint 1993, p. 340 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFQuint1993 (help).
Carey, John (22 July 1999),Danielson, Dennis (ed.), "Milton's Satan", The Cambridge Companion to Milton (2 ed.), Cambridge University Press, pp. 160–174, doi:10.1017/ccol052165226x.011, ISBN 978-0-521-65226-1, retrieved 2 May 2022
^ Teskey, Gordon (2005). "Introduction". Paradise Lost: A Norton Critical Edition. New York: Norton. pp. xxvii-xxviii. ISBN 978-0393924282.
Though Eve does love Adam she may feel suffocated by his constant presence. Eve feels the need to be on her own and explore her individuality.[citation needed] In Book 9 she convinces Adam to separate for a time to work in different parts of the Garden. In her solitude she is deceived by Satan. Satan in the serpent leads Eve to the forbidden tree then persuades her that he has eaten of its fruit and gained knowledge and that she should do the same. She is not easily persuaded to eat, but is hungry in body and in mind.
from the Paradise of GodWithout remorse drive out the sinful PairFrom hallowd ground th' unholie, and denounceTo them and to thir Progenie from thencePerpetual banishment. [...]If patiently thy bidding they obey,Dismiss them not disconsolate; revealeTo Adam what shall come in future dayes,As I shall thee enlighten, intermixMy Cov'nant in the womans seed renewd;So send them forth, though sorrowing, yet in peace. (11.103–117)
^ Greene 1989, p. 27 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFGreene1989 (help).
Milton, J (1674), Paradise Lost  (2nd ed.), London: S. Simmons
Although Milton was not the first to use blank verse, his use of it was very influential and he became known for the style. When Miltonic verse became popular, Samuel Johnson mocked Milton for inspiring bad blank verse, but he recognized that Milton's verse style was very influential.[31] Poets such as Alexander Pope, whose final, incomplete work was intended to be written in the form,[32] and John Keats, who complained that he relied too heavily on Milton,[33] adopted and picked up various aspects of his poetry. In particular, Miltonic blank verse became the standard for those attempting to write English epics for centuries following the publication of Paradise Lost and his later poetry.[34] The poet Robert Bridges analyzed his versification in the monograph Milton's Prosody.
Opinions on the character are often sharply divided. Milton presents Satan as the origin of all evil, but readers have historically struggled with accepting this interpretation. Romanticist critics in particular, among them William Blake, Lord Byron, Percy Bysshe Shelley, and William Hazlitt, are known for reading Satan as the "true hero" of Paradise Lost. This has led other critics, such as C. S. Lewis and Charles Williams, both of whom were devout Christians, to argue against reading Satan as a sympathetic, heroic figure.[10] John Carey argues that this conflict cannot be solved, because the character of Satan exists in more modes and greater depth than the other characters of Paradise Lost: in this way, Milton has created an ambivalent character, and any "pro-Satan" or "anti-Satan" argument is by its nature discarding half the evidence. Satan's ambivalence, Carey says, is "a precondition of the poem's success –a major factor in the attention it has aroused".[11]
In Paradise Lost Milton also ignores the traditional epic format of a plot based on a mortal conflict between opposing armies with deities watching over and occasionally interfering with the action. Instead, both divinity and mortal are involved in a conflict that, while momentarily ending in tragedy, offers a future salvation.[38] In both Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained, Milton incorporates aspects of Lucan's epic model, the epic from the view of the defeated. Although he does not accept the model completely within Paradise Regained, he incorporates the "anti-Virgilian, anti-imperial epic tradition of Lucan".[39] Milton goes further than Lucan in this belief and "Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained carry further, too, the movement toward and valorization of romance that Lucan's tradition had begun, to the point where Milton's poems effectively create their own new genre".[40]
William Bridges Hunter (1978). A Milton encyclopedia. Bucknell University Press. p. 58. ISBN 978-0-8387-1837-7.
Milton used a number of acrostics in the poem. In Book 9, a verse describing the serpent which tempted Eve to eat the forbidden fruit in the Garden of Eden spells out "SATAN" (9.510), while elsewhere in the same book, Milton spells out "FFAALL" and "FALL" (9.333). Respectively, these probably represent the double fall of humanity embodied in Adam and Eve, as well as Satan's fall from Heaven.[30]
Greene 1989, p. 27 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFGreene1989 (help).
The editors at the Poetry Foundation argue that Milton's criticism of the English monarchy was being directed specifically at the Stuart monarchy and not at the monarchy system in general.[3]
At several points in the poem, an Angelic War over Heaven is recounted from different perspectives. Satan's rebellion follows the epic convention of large-scale warfare. The battles between the faithful angels and Satan's forces take place over three days. At the final battle, the Son of God single-handedly defeats the entire legion of angelic rebels and banishes them from Heaven. Following this purge, God creates the World, culminating in his creation of Adam and Eve. While God gave Adam and Eve total freedom and power to rule over all creation, he gave them one explicit command: not to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil on penalty of death.
^ Carey, John (22 July 1999),Danielson, Dennis (ed.), "Milton's Satan", The Cambridge Companion to Milton (2 ed.), Cambridge University Press, p. 161, doi:10.1017/ccol052165226x.011, ISBN 978-0-521-65226-1, retrieved 2 May 2022
John Martin, Eve's Dream, Satan Aroused, from Paradise Lost (1824–1827). Mezzotint, plate, 14 × 20.2 cm. Museum of Fine Arts, Houston
Bate 1962, pp. 66–67 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFBate1962 (help).
Leonard, John (2000), "Introduction",in Milton, John (ed.), Paradise Lost, New York: Penguin, ISBN 9780140424393
In the final book a vision of Salvation through the Son is revealed to Adam by Michael. The name Jesus of Nazareth, and the details of Jesus' story are not depicted in the poem,[12] though they are alluded to. Michael explains that "Joshua, whom the Gentiles Jesus call", prefigures the Son of God, "his name and office bearing" to "quell / The adversarie Serpent, and bring back [...] long wander[e]d man / Safe to eternal Paradise of rest".[13]
Milton's first criticism of idolatry focused on the constructing of temples and other buildings to serve as places of worship. In Book XI of Paradise Lost, Adam tries to atone for his sins by offering to build altars to worship God. In response, the angel Michael explains that Adam does not need to build physical objects to experience the presence of God.[22] Joseph Lyle points to this example, explaining: "When Milton objects to architecture, it is not a quality inherent in buildings themselves he finds offensive, but rather their tendency to act as convenient loci to which idolatry, over time, will inevitably adhere."[23] Even if the idea is pure in nature, Milton thought it would unavoidably lead to idolatry simply because of the nature of humans. That is, instead of directing their thoughts towards God, humans will turn to erected objects and falsely invest their faith there. While Adam attempts to build an altar to God, critics note Eve is similarly guilty of idolatry, but in a different manner. Harding believes Eve's narcissism and obsession with herself constitutes idolatry.[24] Specifically, Harding claims that "under the serpent's influence, Eve's idolatry and self-deification foreshadow the errors into which her 'Sons' will stray".[24] Much like Adam, Eve falsely places her faith in herself, the Tree of Knowledge, and to some extent the Serpent, all of which do not compare to the ideal nature of God.
^ Quint 1993, p. 340 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFQuint1993 (help).
In addition to rejecting Catholicism, Milton revolted against the idea of a monarch ruling by divine right. He saw the practice as idolatrous. Barbara Lewalski concludes that the theme of idolatry in Paradise Lost "is an exaggerated version of the idolatry Milton had long associated with the Stuart ideology of divine kingship".[27] In the opinion of Milton, any object, human or non-human, that receives special attention befitting of God, is considered idolatrous.
Paradise Lost is an epic poem in blank verse by the 17th-century English poet John Milton (1608–1674). The first version, published in 1667, consists of ten books with over ten thousand lines of verse. A second edition followed in 1674, arranged into twelve books (in the manner of Virgil's Aeneid) with minor revisions throughout.[1][2] It is considered to be Milton's masterpiece, and it helped solidify his reputation as one of the greatest English poets of all time.[3] The poem concerns the biblical story of the fall of man; the temptation of Adam and Eve by the fallen angel Satan and their expulsion from the Garden of Eden.
Gustave Doré Paradise Lost Illustrations from the university at Buffalo Libraries
Raphael is an archangel who is sent by God to Eden in order to strengthen Adam and Eve against Satan. He tells a heroic tale about the War in Heaven that takes up most of Book 6 of Paradise Lost. Ultimately, the story told by Raphael, in which Satan is portrayed as bold and decisive, does not prepare Adam and Eve to counter Satan's subtle temptations –and may even have caused the Fall in the first place.[17]
Satan, formerly called Lucifer, is the first major character introduced in the poem. He is a tragic figure who famously declares: "Better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven" (1.263). Following his vain rebellion against God he is cast out from Heaven and condemned to Hell. The rebellion stems from Satan's pride and envy (5.660ff.).
Biberman, M (January 1999), "Milton, Marriage, and a Woman's Right to Divorce", SEL: Studies in English Literature 1500–1900, 39 (1): 131–153, doi:10.2307/1556309, JSTOR 1556309
4Characters											Toggle Characters subsection																					4.1Satan																											4.2Adam																											4.3Eve																											4.4The Son of God																											4.5God the Father																											4.6Raphael																											4.7Michael
Michael is an archangel who is preeminent in military prowess. He leads in battle and uses a sword which was "giv'n him temperd so, that neither keen / Nor solid might resist that edge" (6.322–323).
Illustrating Paradise Lost (Archived 1 February 2008 at the Wayback Machine) from Christ's College, Cambridge, has all twelve on line. See Medina's article for more on the authorship, and all the illustrations, which are also in Commons.
^ Illustrating Paradise Lost (Archived 1 February 2008 at the Wayback Machine) from Christ's College, Cambridge, has all twelve on line. See Medina's article for more on the authorship, and all the illustrations, which are also in Commons.
^ Johnson, Kimberly (2012). "Raphael's "Potent Tongue": Power and Spectacle in "Paradise Lost"". Milton Quarterly. 46 (4): 205–218. doi:10.1111/milt.12010. ISSN 0026-4326. JSTOR 24462156.
Adam is the first human created by God. Adam requests a companion from God: .mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}
Having gone blind in 1652, Milton wrote Paradise Lost entirely through dictation with the help of amanuenses and friends. He also wrote the epic poem while often ill, suffering from gout, and suffering emotionally after the early death of his second wife, Katherine Woodcock, in 1658, and their infant daughter.[7]
Lewalski, B. (January 2003), "Milton and Idolatry", SEL: Studies in English Literature 1500–1900, 43 (1): 213–232, doi:10.1353/sel.2003.0008, S2CID 170082234
The poem follows the epic tradition of starting in medias res (in the midst of things), the background story being recounted later.
^ William Bridges Hunter (1978). A Milton encyclopedia. Bucknell University Press. p. 58. ISBN 978-0-8387-1837-7.
^ Bate 1962, pp. 66–67 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFBate1962 (help).
When Adam sees him coming he describes him to Eve as
Of fellowship I speakSuch as I seek, fit to participateAll rational delight, wherein the bruteCannot be human consort. (8.389–392)
Lyle, J (January 2000), "Architecture and Idolatry in Paradise Lost", SEL: Studies in English Literature 1500–1900, 40 (1): 139–155, doi:10.2307/1556158, JSTOR 1556158
The Son of God is the spirit who will become incarnate as Jesus Christ, though he is never named explicitly because he has not yet entered human form. Milton believed in a subordinationist doctrine of Christology that regarded the Son as secondary to the Father and as God's "great Vice-regent" (5.609).
John Milton: A Short Introduction (2002 ed., paperback by Roy C. Flannagan, Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell, ISBN 978-0-631-22620-8; 2008 ed., ebook by Roy Flannagan, Massachusetts: Wiley-Blackwell, ISBN 978-0-470-69287-5)
God approves his request then creates Eve. God appoints Adam and Eve to rule over all the creatures of the world and to reside in the Garden of Eden.
William Blake famously wrote in The Marriage of Heaven and Hell: "The reason Milton wrote in fetters when he wrote of Angels & God, and at liberty when of Devils & Hell, is because he was a true Poet and of the Devil's party without knowing it."[36] This quotation succinctly represents the way in which some 18th- and 19th-century English Romantic poets viewed Milton.
This page was last edited on 11 March 2023, at 07:15 (UTC).
Milton's story has two narrative arcs, one about Satan (Lucifer) and the other, Adam and Eve. It begins after Satan and the other fallen angels have been defeated and banished to Hell, or, as it is also called in the poem, Tartarus. In Pandæmonium, the capital city of Hell, Satan employs his rhetorical skill to organise his followers; he is aided by Mammon and Beelzebub. Belial, Chemosh, and Moloch are also present. At the end of the debate, Satan volunteers to corrupt the newly created Earth and God's new and most favoured creation, Mankind. He braves the dangers of the Abyss alone, in a manner reminiscent of Odysseus or Aeneas. After an arduous traversal of the Chaos outside Hell, he enters God's new material World, and later the Garden of Eden.
The first illustrations to accompany the text of Paradise Lost were added to the fourth edition of 1688, with one engraving prefacing each book, of which up to eight of the twelve were by Sir John Baptist Medina, one by Bernard Lens II, and perhaps up to four (including Books I and XII, perhaps the most memorable) by another hand.[41] The engraver was Michael Burghers (given as 'Burgesse' in some sources[42]). By 1730 the same images had been re-engraved on a smaller scale by Paul Fourdrinier.
Tobias Gregory wrote that Milton was "the most theologically learned among early modern epic poets. He was, moreover, a theologian of great independence of mind, and one who developed his talents within a society where the problem of divine justice was debated with particular intensity."[37] Gregory says that Milton is able to establish divine action and his divine characters in a superior way to other Renaissance epic poets, including Ludovico Ariosto or Tasso.[38]
Miller, T. C., ed. (1997), The Critical Response to John Milton's "Paradise Lost", Westport: Greenwood Publishing Group, ISBN 978-0-313-28926-2, OCLC 35762631
Leonard also notes that Milton "did not at first plan to write a biblical epic".[4] Since epics were typically written about heroic kings and queens (and with pagan gods), Milton originally envisioned his epic to be based on a legendary Saxon or British king like the legend of King Arthur.[5][6]
Rebhorn, Wayne A. "The Humanist Tradition and Milton's Satan: The Conservative as Revolutionary". SEL: Studies in English Literature 1500–1900, vol. 13, no. 1, The English Renaissance (Winter 1973), pp. 81–93.
Although Milton does not directly mention divorce, critics posit theories on Milton's view of divorce based upon their inferences from the poem and from his tracts on divorce written earlier in his life. Other works by Milton suggest he viewed marriage as an entity separate from the church. Discussing Paradise Lost, Biberman entertains the idea that "marriage is a contract made by both the man and the woman".[21] These ideas imply Milton may have favored that both man and woman have equal access to marriage and to divorce.
Major Online Resources on Paradise Lost (archived 6 February 2011)
not terrible,That I should fear, nor sociably mild,As Raphael, that I should much confide,But solemn and sublime, whom not to offend,With reverence I must meet, and thou retire. (11.233–237)
The Father then asks whether there "Dwels in all Heaven charitie so deare?" (3.216) And the Son volunteers himself.
Poems 1645On the Morning of Christ's NativityUpon the CircumcisionThe PassionArcadesComus"Lycidas""L'Allegro""Il Penseroso"
5Themes											Toggle Themes subsection																					5.1Marriage																											5.2Idolatry																											5.3Criticism of monarchy																											5.4Morality
12External links											Toggle External links subsection																					12.1Online text																											12.2Other information
Brisman 1973, pp. 7–8 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFBrisman1973 (help).
God the Father is the creator of Heaven, Hell, the world, of everyone and everything there is, through the agency of His Son. Milton presents God as all-powerful and all-knowing, as an infinitely great being who cannot be overthrown by even the great army of angels Satan incites against him. Milton portrays God as often conversing about his plans and his motives for his actions with the Son of God. The poem shows God creating the world in the way Milton believed it was done, that is, God created Heaven, Earth, Hell, and all the creatures that inhabit these separate planes from part of Himself, not out of nothing.[14] Thus, according to Milton, the ultimate authority of God over all things that happen derives from his being the "author" of all creation. Satan tries to justify his rebellion by denying this aspect of God and claiming self-creation, but he admits to himself the truth otherwise, and that God "deserved no such return / From me, whom He created what I was".[15][16]
Walker, Julia M. (1998), Medusa's Mirrors: Spenser, Shakespeare, Milton, and the Metamorphosis of the Female Self, University of Delaware Press, ISBN 978-0-87413-625-8
Medusa's Mirrors: Spenser, Shakespeare, Milton, and the Metamorphosis of the Female Self
^ Erich Kolig (2012). Conservative Islam: A Cultural Anthropology. Rowman & Littlefield. pp. 71 with footnote 2. ISBN 978-0-7391-7424-1.
^ a b Lawrence A. Kuznar (2001). Ethnoarchaeology of Andean South America: Contributions to Archaeological Method and Theory. Indiana University Press. pp. 45–47. ISBN 978-1-879621-29-9.
^ a b Paul Kugler (2008).Polly Young-Eisendrath; Terence Dawson (eds.). The Cambridge Companion to Jung. Cambridge University Press. pp. 78–79. ISBN 978-1-139-82798-0.
Frank L. Kidner; Maria Bucur; Ralph Mathisen;et al. (2007). Making Europe: People, Politics, and Culture, Volume I: To 1790. Cengage. p. 40. ISBN 978-0-618-00480-5.
Brian M. Fagan (1996). The Oxford Companion to Archaeology. Oxford University Press. p. 345. ISBN 978-0-19-507618-9.
The commandments in the Hebrew Bible against idolatry forbade the practices and gods of ancient Akkad, Mesopotamia, and Egypt.[53][54] The Hebrew Bible states that God has no shape or form, is utterly incomparable, is everywhere and cannot be represented in a physical form of an idol.[55]
Statues, images and temples have been a part of the Traditional Religions of the indigenous people of the Americas.[192][193][194] The Incan, Mayan and Aztec civilizations developed sophisticated religious practices that incorporated idols and religious arts.[194] The Inca culture, for example, has believed in Viracocha (also called Pachacutec) as the creator deity and nature deities such as Inti (sun deity), and Mama Cocha the goddess of the sea, lakes, rivers and waters.[195][196][197]
Sikhism is a monotheistic Indian religion, and Sikh temples are devoid of idols and icons for God.[150][151] Yet, Sikhism strongly encourages devotion to God.[152][153] Some scholars call Sikhism a Bhakti sect of Indian traditions.[154][155]
^ Josh Ellenbogen; Aaron Tugendhaft (2011). Idol Anxiety. Stanford University Press. pp. 29–35, 60–74. ISBN 978-0-8047-8181-7.
^ a b Moshe Halbertal; Donniel Hartman (2007). Monotheism and Violence. Vol. Judaism and the Challenges of Modern Life. Bloomsbury Academic. pp. 105–112. ISBN 978-0-8264-9668-3.
^ Brian M. Fagan (1996). The Oxford Companion to Archaeology. Oxford University Press. p. 345. ISBN 978-0-19-507618-9.
John F. Thornton; Susan B. Varenne (2006). Steward of God's Covenant: Selected Writings. Random House. p. 11. ISBN 978-1-4000-9648-0.;See John Calvin (1537) The Institutes of the Christian Religion, Quote: "The worship which they pay to their images they cloak with the name of εἰδωλοδυλεία (idolodulia), and deny to be εἰδωλολατρεία (idolatria). So they speak, holding that the worship which they call dulia may, without insult to God, be paid to statues and pictures. (...) For the Greek word λατρεύειν having no other meaning than to worship, what they say is just the same as if they were to confess that they worship their images without worshipping them. They cannot object that I am quibbling upon words. (...) But how eloquent soever they may be, they will never prove by their eloquence that one and the same thing makes two. Let them show how the things differ if they would be thought different from ancient idolaters."
Veneration of icons through proskynesis was codified in 787 AD by the Seventh Ecumenical Council.[88][89] This was triggered by the Byzantine Iconoclasm controversy that followed raging Christian-Muslim wars and a period of iconoclasm in West Asia.[88][90] The defense of images and the role of the Syrian scholar John of Damascus was pivotal during this period. The Eastern Orthodox Church has ever since celebrated the use of icons and images. Eastern Rite Catholics also accepts icons in their Divine Liturgy.[91]
Peter Roger Stuart Moorey (2003). Idols of the People: Miniature Images of Clay in the Ancient Near East. Oxford University Press. pp. 1–15. ISBN 978-0-19-726280-1.
Rogue Regime: Kim Jong Il and the Looming Threat of North Korea
^ a b Klaus Klostermaier (2007) Hinduism: A Beginner's Guide, 2nd Edition, Oxford: OneWorld Publications, ISBN 978-1-85168-163-1, pages 63–65
Idolatry and iconoclasm Archived 12 January 2019 at the Wayback Machine, Tufts University
5Chinese and Sinosphere Traditions											Toggle Chinese and Sinosphere Traditions subsection																					5.1Confucianism																											5.2Chinese Folk Religion																											5.3Daoism																											5.4North Korean Juche
^ He, K.; Feng, H. (2013). Prospect Theory and Foreign Policy Analysis in the Asia Pacific: Rational Leaders and Risky Behavior. Foreign Policy Analysis. Taylor & Francis. p. 62. ISBN 978-1-135-13119-7. Retrieved 12 February 2023.
Jane Bingham (2007), Sikhism, Atlas of World Faiths, ISBN 978-1599200590, pages 19-20
J. Gordon Melton (2001). Encyclopedia of Occultism & Parapsychology: A-L. Gale. p. Idolatry. ISBN 978-0-8103-9488-9., Alternate Link
^ Minoru Kiyota (1985), Tathāgatagarbha Thought: A Basis of Buddhist Devotionalism in East Asia, Japanese Journal of Religious Studies, Vol. 12, No. 2/3, pages 207–231
^ Rebecca M. Seaman (2013). Conflict in the Early Americas: An Encyclopedia of the Spanish Empire's Aztec, Incan, and Mayan Conquests. ABC-CLIO. pp. 140–141, 251. ISBN 978-1-59884-777-2.
Klaus Klostermaier (2010), A Survey of Hinduism, State University of New York Press, ISBN 978-0-7914-7082-4, pages 264–267
Africa has numerous ethnic groups, and their diverse religious idea have been grouped as African Traditional Religions, sometimes abbreviated to ATR. These religions typically believe in a Supreme Being which goes by different regional names, as well as spirit world often linked to ancestors, and mystical magical powers through divination.[179] Idols and their worship have been associated with all three components in the African Traditional Religions.[180]
^ Kalman Bland (2001).Lawrence Fine (ed.). Judaism in Practice: From the Middle Ages Through the Early Modern Period. Princeton University Press. pp. 290–291. ISBN 978-0-691-05787-3.
Alice Boner, Sadāśiva Rath Śarmā and Bettina Bäumer (2000), Vāstusūtra Upaniṣad, Motilal Banarsidass, ISBN 978-81-208-0090-8, pages 7–9, for context see 1–10
^ Colin Beckley; Elspeth Waters (2008). Who Holds the Moral High Ground?. Societas Imprint Academic. pp. 10–11. ISBN 978-1-84540-103-0.
^ Reuven Firestone (1999). Jihad: The Origin of Holy War in Islam. Oxford University Press. pp. 20–21, 85–89. ISBN 978-0-19-535219-1.
^ Gerald Parsons (1993). The Growth of Religious Diversity: Traditions. Routledge. p. 211. ISBN 978-0-415-08326-3.
Judaism prohibits any form of idolatry[50] even if they are used to worship the one God of Judaism as occurred during the sin of the golden calf. According to the second word of the decalogue, Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. The worship of foreign gods in any form or through icons is not allowed.[50][51]
The accusations and presumption that all idols and images are devoid of symbolism, or that icons of one's own religion are "true, healthy, uplifting, beautiful symbolism, mark of devotion, divine", while of other person's religion are "false, an illness, superstitious, grotesque madness, evil addiction, satanic, and cause of all incivility" is more a matter of subjective personal interpretation, rather than objective impersonal truth.[19] Regina Schwartz and some other contemporary scholars state allegations that idols only represent false gods, followed by iconoclastic destruction is only little more than religious intolerance.[224][225] The Scottish Enlightenment philosopher David Hume wrote in his essay Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion (1779) that the worship of different gods and cult images in Pagan religions is premised on religious pluralism, tolerance, and acceptance of diverse representations of the divine, whereas Abrahamic monotheistic religions are intolerant, have attempted to destroy freedom of expression, and have violently forced others to accept and worship their conception of God.[20]
The Legend of Sergius Bahira: Eastern Christian Apologetics and Apocalyptic in Response to Islam
^ G. R. Hawting (1999). The Idea of Idolatry and the Emergence of Islam: From Polemic to History. Cambridge University Press. pp. 1–6, 80–86. ISBN 978-1-139-42635-0.
^ Betz, Arnold Gottfried (2000). "Monotheism".In Freedman, David Noel; Myer, Allen C. (eds.). Eerdmans Dictionary of the Bible. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Wm. B. Eerdmans. pp. 916–917. ISBN 9053565035.
Wiles of Women/The Wiles of Men, The: Joseph and Potiphar's Wife in Ancient Near Eastern, Jewish, and Islamic Folklore
New Idols of the Cave: On the Limits of Anti-realism
^ L. A. Craighen (1914). The Practice of Idolatry. Taylor & Taylor. pp. 21–26, 30–31.
^ Abraham Joshua Heschel (2005). Heavenly Torah: As Refracted Through the Generations. Bloomsbury Academic. pp. 73–75. ISBN 978-0-8264-0802-0.
^ W.O. Cole; Piara Singh Sambhi (2016). Sikhism and Christianity: A Comparative Study. Springer. pp. 36–37. ISBN 978-1-349-23049-5.
^ a b Waldman, Marilyn Robinson (1968). "The Development of the Concept of Kufr in the Qur'ān". Journal of the American Oriental Society. 88 (3): 442–455. doi:10.2307/596869. JSTOR 596869.
^ a b Peter Harvey (2013). An Introduction to Buddhism: Teachings, History and Practices. Cambridge University Press. pp. 194–195. ISBN 978-0-521-85942-4.
^ a b Moshe Halbertal; Avishai Margalit; Naomi Goldblum (1992). Idolatry. Harvard University Press. pp. 39–40, 102–103, 116–119. ISBN 978-0-674-44313-6.
Betz, Arnold Gottfried (2000). "Monotheism".In Freedman, David Noel; Myer, Allen C. (eds.). Eerdmans Dictionary of the Bible. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Wm. B. Eerdmans. pp. 916–917. ISBN 9053565035.
Allen Shapiro (2011), Judean pillar figurines: a study, MA Thesis, Advisor: Barry Gittlen, Towson University, United States
Although the Semitic god El is indeed the most ancient predecessor to the Abrahamic god,[213][214][217][218] this specifically refers to the ancient ideas Yahweh once encompassed in the Ancient Hebrew religion, such as being a storm- and war-god, living on mountains, or controlling the weather.[213][214][217][218][219] Thus, in this page's context, "Yahweh" is used to refer to God as conceived in the Ancient Hebrew religion, and should not be referenced when describing his later worship in today's Abrahamic religions.
^ Jane Bingham (2007), Sikhism, Atlas of World Faiths, ISBN 978-1599200590, pages 19-20
^ Marc Gopin (2002). Holy War, Holy Peace. Oxford University Press. pp. 243 footnote 5. ISBN 978-0-19-803348-6.
^ Alan L. Kolata (2013). Ancient Inca. Cambridge University Press. p. 164. ISBN 978-0-521-86900-3.
The Idol in the Age of Art: Objects, Devotions and the Early Modern World
David Lorenzen (1995), Bhakti Religion in North India: Community Identity and Political Action, State University of New York Press, ISBN 978-0791420256, pages 1–3
Timothy Insoll (2002). Archaeology and World Religion. Routledge. pp. 112–113. ISBN 978-1-134-59798-7.
In Sikhism, "nirguni Bhakti" is emphasised – devotion to a divine without Gunas (qualities or form),[155][156][157] but its scripture also accepts representations of God with formless (nirguni) and with form (saguni), as stated in Adi Granth 287.[158][159] Sikhism condemns worshipping images or statues as if it were God,[160] but have historically challenged the iconoclastic policies and Hindu temple destruction activities of Islamic rulers in India.[161]Sikhs house their scripture and revere the Guru Granth Sahib as the final Guru of Sikhism.[162] It is installed in Sikh Gurdwara (temple), many Sikhs bow or prostrate before it on entering the temple.[Note 1] Guru Granth Sahib is ritually installed every morning, and put to bed at night in many Gurdwaras.[169][170][171]In the Dasam Bani, Guru Gobind Singh wrote "I am idol-breaker" on line 95 of his Zafarnamah.[172]
^ a b c Carlos M. N. Eire (1989). War Against the Idols: The Reformation of Worship from Erasmus to Calvin. Cambridge University Press. pp. 5–7. ISBN 978-0-521-37984-7.
The Witches' Sabbath: An Exploration of History, Folklore & Modern Practice
Bernard, David K. (2019) [2016]. "Monotheism in Paul's Rhetorical World". The Glory of God in the Face of Jesus Christ: Deification of Jesus in Early Christian Discourse. Journal of Pentecostal Theology: Supplement Series. Vol. 45. Leiden and Boston: Brill Publishers. pp. 53–82. ISBN 978-90-04-39721-7. ISSN 0966-7393.
J. O. Awolalu (1976), What is African Traditional Religion?, Studies in Comparative Religion, Vol. 10, No. 2, pages 8, 1–10
The opposition to the use of any icon or image to represent ideas of reverence or worship is called aniconism.[13] The destruction of images as icons of veneration is called iconoclasm,[14] and this has long been accompanied with violence between religious groups that forbid idol worship and those who have accepted icons, images and statues for veneration.[15][16] The definition of idolatry has been a contested topic within Abrahamic religions, with many Muslims and most Protestant Christians condemning the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox practice of venerating the Virgin Mary in many churches as a form of idolatry.[17][18]
^ Willem J. van Asselt; Paul Van Geest; Daniela Muller (2007). Iconoclasm and Iconoclash: Struggle for Religious Identity. BRILL Academic. pp. 8–9, 52–60. ISBN 978-90-04-16195-5.
iconolatry, Merriam Webster;Elmar Waibl (1997). Dictionary of philosophical terms. Walter de Gruyter. pp. 42 see Bilderverehrung. ISBN 978-3-11-097454-6.
Catechism of The Catholic Church, passage 2113, p. 460, Geoffrey Chapman, 1999
The term idolatry comes from the Ancient Greek word eidololatria (εἰδωλολατρία), which itself is a compound of two words: eidolon (εἴδωλον "image/idol") and latreia (λατρεία "worship", related to λάτρις).[21] The word eidololatria thus means "worship of idols", which in Latin appears first as idololatria, then in Vulgar Latin as idolatria, therefrom it appears in 12th century Old French as idolatrie, which for the first time in mid 13th century English appears as "idolatry".[22][23]
Oliver Leaman (2006). The Qur'an: An Encyclopedia. Routledge. pp. 144–146. ISBN 978-0-415-32639-1.
John Grimes (1994). Problems and Perspectives in Religious Discourse. State University of New York Press. pp. 60–61. ISBN 978-0-7914-1791-1.
Kathleen M. Ashley; Robert L. A. Clark (2001). Medieval Conduct. University of Minnesota Press. pp. 211–212. ISBN 978-0-8166-3576-4.
^ Smart, Ninian (10 November 2020) [26 July 1999]. "Polytheism". Encyclopædia Britannica. Edinburgh: Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Archived from the original on 11 November 2020. Retrieved 28 July 2021.
Marina Prusac; Kristine Kolrud (2014). Iconoclasm from Antiquity to Modernity. Ashgate. pp. 1–3. ISBN 978-1-4094-7033-5.
G. R. Hawting (1999). The Idea of Idolatry and the Emergence of Islam: From Polemic to History. Cambridge University Press. pp. 1–6, 80–86. ISBN 978-1-139-42635-0.
W. Owen Cole and Piara Singh Sambhi (1997), A Popular Dictionary of Sikhism: Sikh Religion and Philosophy, Routledge, ISBN 978-0700710485, page 22
Richard Gehman (2005). African Traditional Religion in Biblical Perspective. East African Publishers. pp. 189–190. ISBN 978-9966-25-354-5.
The ancient philosophy and practices of the Greeks, thereafter Romans, were imbued with polytheistic idolatry.[42][43] They debate what is an image and if the use of image is appropriate. To Plato, images can be a remedy or poison to the human experience.[44] To Aristotle, states Paul Kugler, an image is an appropriate mental intermediary that "bridges between the inner world of the mind and the outer world of material reality", the image is a vehicle between sensation and reason. Idols are useful psychological catalysts, they reflect sense data and pre-existing inner feelings. They are neither the origins nor the destinations of thought but the intermediary in the human inner journey.[44][45] Fervid opposition to the idolatry of the Greeks and Romans was of Early Christianity and later Islam, as evidenced by the widespread desecration and defacement of ancient Greek and Roman sculptures that have survived into the modern era.[46][47][48]
The Roman Catholic and particularly the Orthodox Churches have traditionally defended the use of icons. The debate on what images signify and whether reverence with the help of icons in church is equivalent to idolatry has lasted for many centuries, particularly from the 7th century until the Reformation in the 16th century.[66] These debates have supported the inclusion of icons of Jesus Christ, the Virgin Mary, and the Apostles, the iconography expressed in stained glass, regional saints and other symbols of Christian faith. It has also supported the practices such as the Catholic mass, burning of candles before pictures, Christmas decorations and celebrations, and festive or memorial processions with statues of religious significance to Christianity.[66][67][68]
^ Janet Parker; Julie Stanton (2007). Mythology: Myths, Legends and Fantasies. Struik Publishers. p. 501. ISBN 978-1-77007-453-8.
Thomas W. L. Jones (1898). The Queen of Heaven: Màmma Schiavona (the Black Mother), the Madonna of the Pignasecea: a Delineation of the Great Idolatry. pp. 1–2.
^ Reuven Firestone (1999). Jihad: The Origin of Holy War in Islam. Oxford University Press. pp. 88–89. ISBN 978-0-19-535219-1.
The early defense of images included exegesis of Old and New Testament. Evidence for the use of religious images is found in Early Christian art and documentary records. For example, the veneration of the tombs and statues of martyrs was common among early Christian communities. In 397 St. Augustine of Hippo, in his Confessions 6.2.2, tells the story of his mother making offerings for the tombs of martyrs and the oratories built in the memory of the saints.[75]
Richard G. Lesure (2011). Interpreting Ancient Figurines: Context, Comparison, and Prehistoric Art. Cambridge University Press. pp. 11–12. ISBN 978-1-139-49615-5.
^ Floru, JP (2017). The Sun Tyrant: A Nightmare Called North Korea. Biteback Publishing. p. 7. ISBN 978-1-78590-288-8. Retrieved 13 February 2023.
Lawrence A. Kuznar (2001). Ethnoarchaeology of Andean South America: Contributions to Archaeological Method and Theory. Indiana University Press. pp. 45–47. ISBN 978-1-879621-29-9.
James Leslie Houlden (2003). Jesus in History, Thought, and Culture: An Encyclopedia. ABC-CLIO. pp. 369–370. ISBN 978-1-57607-856-3.
Images in Catholicism ...idolatry?: Discourse on the First Commandment With Biblical Citations
The Idea of Idolatry and the Emergence of Islam: From Polemic to History
Rachel Neis (29 August 2013). The Sense of Sight in Rabbinic Culture. Cambridge University Press. pp. 99–100 with footnotes. ISBN 978-1-107-03251-4.
Abraham Joshua Heschel (2005). Heavenly Torah: As Refracted Through the Generations. Bloomsbury Academic. pp. 73–75. ISBN 978-0-8264-0802-0.
According to Islamic tradition, over the millennia after Ishmael's death, his progeny and the local tribes who settled around the oasis of Zam-Zam gradually turned to polytheism and idolatry. Several idols were placed within the Kaaba representing deities of different aspects of nature and different tribes. Several heretical rituals were adopted in the Pilgrimage (Hajj) including doing naked circumambulation.[110]
^ Vantage Point. Naewoe Press. 1982. Retrieved 13 February 2023.
Religious worship is not directed to images in themselves, considered as mere things, but under their distinctive aspect as images leading us on to God incarnate. The movement toward the image does not terminate in it as image, but tends toward that whose image it is.[79]
I Am with You Always: A Study of the History and Meaning of Personal Devotion to Jesus Christ for Catholic, Orthodox, and Protestant Christians
According to Peter Harvey – a professor of Buddhist Studies, Buddha idols and idolatry spread into northwest Indian subcontinent (now Pakistan and Afghanistan) and into Central Asia with Buddhist Silk Road merchants.[126] The Hindu rulers of different Indian dynasties patronized both Buddhism and Hinduism from 4th to 9th century, building Buddhist icons and cave temples such as the Ajanta Caves and Ellora Caves which featured Buddha idols.[127][128][129] From the 10th century, states Harvey, the raids into northwestern parts of South Asia by Muslim Turks destroyed Buddhist idols, given their religious dislike for idolatry. The iconoclasm was so linked to Buddhism, that the Islamic texts of this era in India called all idols as Budd.[126] The desecration of idols in cave temples continued through the 17th century, states Geri Malandra, from the offense of "the graphic, anthropomorphic imagery of Hindu and Buddhist shrines".[129][130]
Fuller, C. J. (2004), The Camphor Flame: Popular Hinduism and Society in India, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, pp. 67–68, ISBN 978-0-691-12048-5
Lata, Prem (1990). Swami Dayānanda Sarasvatī. Sumit Publications. p. x. ISBN 978-81-7000-114-0.
DiBernardo, Sabatino (2008). "American Idol(atry): A Religious Profanation". The Journal of Religion and Popular Culture. 19 (1): 1–2. doi:10.3138/jrpc.19.1.001., Quote: "Idolatry (...) in the first commandment denotes the notion of worship, adoration, or reverence of an image of God."
^ Stephen Gero (1973). Byzantine Iconoclasm During the Reign of Leo III: With Particular Attention to the Oriental Sources. Corpus scriptorum Christianorum Orientalium: Subsidia. pp. 1–7, 44–45. ISBN 9789042903876.
Karel Werner (1995), Love Divine: Studies in Bhakti and Devotional Mysticism, Routledge, ISBN 978-0700702350, pages 45–46
Karen Pechelis (2011), The Bloomsbury Companion to Hindu Studies (Editor: Jessica Frazier), Bloomsbury, ISBN 978-1472511515, pages 109–112
^ Barbara Johnson (2010). Moses and Multiculturalism. University of California Press. pp. 21–22, 50–51. ISBN 978-0-520-26254-6.
^ Hardip Syan (2014), in The Oxford Handbook of Sikh Studies (Editors: Pashaura Singh, Louis E. Fenech), Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0199699308, page 178
^ a b C Scott Littleton (2005). Gods, Goddesses, and Mythology. Marshall Cavendish. pp. 797–798. ISBN 978-0-7614-7565-1.
Régis Bertrand (2003). La Nativité et le temps de Noël: XVIIe-XXe siècle (in French). Publ. de l'Université de Provence. pp. 87–95. ISBN 978-2-85399-552-8.
Ryan K. Smith (2011). Gothic Arches, Latin Crosses: Anti-Catholicism and American Church Designs in the Nineteenth Century. University of North Carolina Press. pp. 79–81. ISBN 978-0-8078-7728-9.
In Orthodox apologetic literature, the proper and improper use of images is extensively discussed. Exegetical Orthodox literature points to icons and the manufacture by Moses (under God's commandment) of the Bronze Snake in Numbers 21:9, which had the grace and power of God to heal those bitten by real snakes. Similarly, the Ark of the Covenant was cited as evidence of the ritual object above which Yahweh was present.[86][87]
^ James Leslie Houlden (2003). Jesus in History, Thought, and Culture: An Encyclopedia. ABC-CLIO. pp. 369–370. ISBN 978-1-57607-856-3.
^ S. Diamant (1974), A Prehistoric Figurine from Mycenae, The Annual of the British School at Athens, Vol. 69 (1974), pages 103–107
^ a b Geri Hockfield Malandra (1993). Unfolding A Mandala: The Buddhist Cave Temples at Ellora. State University of New York Press. pp. 1–4. ISBN 978-0-7914-1355-5.
Barbara Johnson (2010). Moses and Multiculturalism. University of California Press. pp. 50–52. ISBN 978-0-520-26254-6.
Gabriel Balima (2008). Satanic Christianity and the Creation of the Seventh Day. Dorrance. pp. 72–73. ISBN 978-1-4349-9280-2.
^ Shalom Goldman (2012). Wiles of Women/The Wiles of Men, The: Joseph and Potiphar's Wife in Ancient Near Eastern, Jewish, and Islamic Folklore. State University of New York Press. pp. 64–68. ISBN 978-1-4384-0431-8.
Frank K. Flinn (2007). Encyclopedia of Catholicism. Infobase. pp. 358–359. ISBN 978-0-8160-7565-2.
Manuel Aguilar-Moreno (2007). Handbook to Life in the Aztec World. Oxford University Press. pp. 24, 203–204. ISBN 978-0-19-533083-0.
Rebecca M. Seaman (2013). Conflict in the Early Americas: An Encyclopedia of the Spanish Empire's Aztec, Incan, and Mayan Conquests. ABC-CLIO. pp. 140–141, 251. ISBN 978-1-59884-777-2.
^ Barbara Roggema (2009). The Legend of Sergius Bahira: Eastern Christian Apologetics and Apocalyptic in Response to Islam. BRILL Academic. pp. 204–205. ISBN 978-90-04-16730-8.
Smith, Mark S. (2003). "El, Yahweh, and the Original God of Israel and the Exodus". The Origins of Biblical Monotheism: Israel's Polytheistic Background and the Ugaritic Texts. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 133–148. doi:10.1093/019513480X.003.0008. ISBN 9780195134803.
Michael Willis (2009), The Archaeology of Hindu Ritual, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-51874-1, pages 96–112, 123–143, 168–172
James Bonwick (1894). Irish Druids and Old Irish Religions. Griffith, Farran. pp. 230–231.
^ Paul Thieme (1984), "Indische Wörter und Sitten," in Kleine Schriften (Wiesbaden), Vol. 2, pages 343–370
^ A Mandair (2011), Time and religion-making in modern Sikhism, in Time, History and the Religious Imaginary in South Asia (Editor: Anne Murphy), Routledge, ISBN 978-0415595971, page 188-190
^ Raeburn, J. (2001). Celtic Wicca: Ancient Wisdom for the 21st Century. Kensington Publishing Corporation. p. 24. ISBN 978-0-8065-2229-6. Retrieved 28 February 2023.
^ Steinsaltz, Rabbi Adin. "Introduction - Masechet Avodah Zarah". The Coming Week's Daf Yomi. Retrieved 31 May 2013., Quote: "Over time, however, new religions developed whose basis is in Jewish belief – such as Christianity and Islam – which are based on belief in the Creator and whose adherents follow commandments that are similar to some Torah laws (see the uncensored Rambam in his Mishneh Torah, Hilkhot Melakhim 11:4). All of the rishonim agree that adherents of these religions are not idol worshippers and should not be treated as the pagans described in the Torah."
^ Bernard Lonergan (2016). The Incarnate Word: The Collected Works of Bernard Lonergan, Volume 8. University of Toronto Press. pp. 310–314. ISBN 978-1-4426-3111-3.
Christopher John Fuller states that an image in Hinduism cannot be equated with a deity and the object of worship is the divine whose power is inside the image, and the image is not the object of worship itself, Hindus believe everything is worthy of worship as it contains divine energy.[139] The idols are neither random nor intended as superstitious objects, rather they are designed with embedded symbolism and iconographic rules which sets the style, proportions, the colors, the nature of items the images carry, their mudra and the legends associated with the deity.[139][140][141] The Vāstusūtra Upaniṣad states that the aim of the Murti art is to inspire a devotee towards contemplating the Ultimate Supreme Principle (Brahman).[141] This text adds (abridged):
Devotional (bhakti movement) practices centered on cultivating a deep and personal bond of love with God, often expressed and facilitated with one or more Murti, and includes individual or community hymns, japa or singing (bhajan, kirtan or aarti). Acts of devotion, in major temples particularly, are structured on treating the Murti as the manifestation of a revered guest,[11] and the daily routine can include awakening the murti in the morning and making sure that it "is washed, dressed, and garlanded."[135][136][Note 1]
^ James Noyes (2013). The Politics of Iconoclasm: Religion, Violence and the Culture of Image-Breaking in Christianity and Islam. Tauris. pp. 31–37. ISBN 978-0-85772-288-1.
B. Morrill; J. Ziegler; S. Rodgers (2006). Practicing Catholic: Ritual, Body, and Contestation in Catholic Faith. Springer. pp. 79–80. ISBN 978-1-4039-8296-4.
^ Richard Gehman (2005). African Traditional Religion in Biblical Perspective. East African Publishers. pp. 189–190. ISBN 978-9966-25-354-5.
Douglas Q. Adams (1997). Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture. Routledge. pp. 124, 129–130, 134, 137–138. ISBN 978-1-884964-98-5.
Puritanism in north-west England: a regional study of the diocese of Chester to 1642
^ Reuven Chaim Klein (2018). God versus Gods: Judaism in the Age of Idolatry. Mosaica Press. ISBN 978-1946351463.
^ Christopher Norris (1997). New Idols of the Cave: On the Limits of Anti-realism. Manchester University Press. pp. 106–110. ISBN 978-0-7190-5093-0.
^ National Museum, Seated Male in Namaskar pose, New Delhi, Government of India;S Kalyanaraman (2007), Indus Script Cipher: Hieroglyphs of Indian Linguistic Area, Motilal Banarsidass, ISBN 978-0982897102, pages 234–236
Mahinder Gulati (2008), Comparative Religious And Philosophies : Anthropomorphism And Divinity, Atlantic, ISBN 978-8126909025, page 305
The term false god is often used throughout the Abrahamic scriptures (Torah, Tanakh, Bible, and Quran) to compare Yahweh[211] (interpreted by Jews, Samaritans, and Christians) or Elohim/Allah[212] (interpreted by Muslims) as the only true God.[4] Nevertheless, the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament itself recognizes and reports that originally the Israelites were not monotheists but actively engaged in idolatry and worshipped many foreign, non-Jewish Gods besides Yahweh and/or instead of him,[213] such as Baal, Astarte, Asherah, Chemosh, Dagon, Moloch, Tammuz, and more, and continued to do so until their return from the Babylonian exile[211] (see Ancient Hebrew religion). Judaism, the oldest Abrahamic religion, eventually shifted into a strict, exclusive monotheism,[5] based on the sole veneration of Yahweh,[214][215][216] the predecessor to the Abrahamic conception of God.[Note 2]
Smith, Mark S. (2000). "El".In Freedman, David Noel; Myer, Allen C. (eds.). Eerdmans Dictionary of the Bible. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Wm. B. Eerdmans. pp. 384–386. ISBN 9053565035.
Gruber, Mayer I. (2013). "Israel".In Spaeth, Barbette Stanley (ed.). The Cambridge Companion to Ancient Mediterranean Religions. New York: Cambridge University Press. pp. 76–94. doi:10.1017/CCO9781139047784.007. ISBN 978-0-521-11396-0. LCCN 2012049271.
Torkel Brekke (2014), Religion, War, and Ethics: A Sourcebook of Textual Traditions (Editors: Gregory M. Reichberg and Henrik Syse), Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0521450386, page 675
^ Oliver Leaman (2006). The Qur'an: An Encyclopedia. Routledge. pp. 144–146. ISBN 978-0-415-32639-1.
Bhagirathi Nepak. Mahima Dharma, Bhima Bhoi and Biswanathbaba Archived 10 April 2009 at the Wayback Machine
^ William Owen Cole and Piara Singh Sambhi (1995), The Sikhs: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices, Sussex Academic Press, ISBN 978-1898723134, page 44
Faur, José; Faur, Jose (1978), "The Biblical Idea of Idolatry", The Jewish Quarterly Review, 69 (1): 1–15, doi:10.2307/1453972, JSTOR 1453972
Ulrich Broich; Theo Stemmler; Gerd Stratmann (1984). Functions of Literature. Niemeyer. pp. 120–121. ISBN 978-3-484-40106-8.
^ a b T. J. Wray (2011). What the Bible Really Tells Us: The Essential Guide to Biblical Literacy. Rowman & Littlefield Publishers. pp. 164–165. ISBN 978-1-4422-1293-0.
Ibn Ishaq, Muhammad (1955). Ibn Ishaq's Sirat Rasul Allah – The Life of Muhammad Translated by A. Guillaume. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 88–9. ISBN 9780196360331.
Images function as the Biblefor the illiterate, andincite people to piety and virtue.
National Museum, Seated Male in Namaskar pose, New Delhi, Government of India;S Kalyanaraman (2007), Indus Script Cipher: Hieroglyphs of Indian Linguistic Area, Motilal Banarsidass, ISBN 978-0982897102, pages 234–236
"Allah – Oxford Islamic Studies Online". www.oxfordislamicstudies.com. Retrieved 25 August 2018. Only god in Mecca not represented by idol.
^ a b J. Gordon Melton (2001). Encyclopedia of Occultism & Parapsychology: A-L. Gale. p. Idolatry. ISBN 978-0-8103-9488-9., Alternate Link
Pfeiffer, Robert H. (1924), "The Polemic against Idolatry in the Old Testament", Journal of Biblical Literature, 43 (3/4): 229–240, doi:10.2307/3259257, JSTOR 3259257
Richard Gehman (2005). African Traditional Religion in Biblical Perspective. East African Publishers. pp. xi–xii. ISBN 978-9966-25-354-5.
^ Torkel Brekke (2014), Religion, War, and Ethics: A Sourcebook of Textual Traditions (Editors: Gregory M. Reichberg and Henrik Syse), Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0521450386, page 675
Conflict in the Early Americas: An Encyclopedia of the Spanish Empire's Aztec, Incan, and Mayan Conquests
Leora Faye Batnitzky (2000). Idolatry and Representation: The Philosophy of Franz Rosenzweig Reconsidered. Princeton University Press. p. 145. ISBN 978-0-691-04850-5.
^ John Bowker (2005). "Idolatry". The Concise Oxford Dictionary of World Religions. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acref/9780192800947.001.0001. ISBN 978-0-19-861053-3.
^ Bhagirathi Nepak. Mahima Dharma, Bhima Bhoi and Biswanathbaba Archived 10 April 2009 at the Wayback Machine
Gary Waller (2013). Walsingham and the English Imagination. Ashgate. p. 153. ISBN 978-1-4094-7860-7.
Bernard Lonergan (2016). The Incarnate Word: The Collected Works of Bernard Lonergan, Volume 8. University of Toronto Press. pp. 310–314. ISBN 978-1-4426-3111-3.
The Religion of Israel: From its Beginnings to the Babylonin Exile
Karel Werner (1995), Love Divine: Studies in Bhakti and Devotional Mysticism, Routledge, ISBN 978-0700702350, pages 45-46;John Cort (2011), Jains in the World, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-979664-9, pages 80–85
Richard Payne (2015).Michael Witzel (ed.). Homa Variations: The Study of Ritual Change Across the Longue Durée. Oxford University Press. pp. 1–5, 143–148. ISBN 978-0-19-935158-9.; Phyllis Granoff (2000), Other people's rituals: Ritual Eclecticism in early medieval Indian religious, Journal of Indian Philosophy, Volume 28, Issue 4, pages 399–424
In her book, Islam: A Short History, Karen Armstrong asserts that the Kaaba was officially dedicated to Hubal, a Nabatean deity, and contained 360 idols that probably represented the days of the year.[111] But by Muhammad's day, it seems that the Kaaba was venerated as the shrine of Allah, the High God. Allah was never represented by an idol.[112] Once a year, tribes from all around the Arabian peninsula, whether Christian or pagan, would converge on Mecca to perform the Hajj, marking the widespread conviction that Allah was the same deity worshiped by monotheists.[111] Guillaume in his translation of Ibn Ishaq, an early biographer of Muhammad, says the Ka'aba might have been itself addressed using a feminine grammatical form by the Quraysh.[113] Circumambulation was often performed naked by men and almost naked by women,[110] It is disputed whether Allah and Hubal were the same deity or different. Per a hypothesis by Uri Rubin and Christian Robin, Hubal was only venerated by Quraysh and the Kaaba was first dedicated to Allah, a supreme god of individuals belonging to different tribes, while the pantheon of the gods of Quraysh was installed in Kaaba after they conquered Mecca a century before Muhammad's time.[114]
Shalom Goldman (2012). Wiles of Women/The Wiles of Men, The: Joseph and Potiphar's Wife in Ancient Near Eastern, Jewish, and Islamic Folklore. State University of New York Press. pp. 64–68. ISBN 978-1-4384-0431-8.
^ Kenelm Henry Digby (1841). Mores Catholici : Or Ages of Faith. Catholic Society. pp. 408–410.
^ a b Such idol caring practices are found in other religions. For example, the Infant Jesus of Prague is venerated in many countries of the Catholic world. In the Prague Church it is housed, it is ritually cared for, cleaned and dressed by the sisters of the Carmelites Church, changing the Infant Jesus' clothing to one of the approximately hundred costumes donated by the faithfuls as gift of devotion.[163][164] The idol is worshipped with the faithful believing that it renders favors to those who pray to it.[164][165][166] Such ritualistic caring of the image of baby Jesus is found in other churches and homes in Central Europe and Portugual / Spain influenced Christian communities with different names, such as Menino Deus.[165][167][168]
David Sansone (2016). Ancient Greek Civilization. Wiley. pp. 275–276. ISBN 978-1-119-09814-0.
^ Christian Julien Robin (2012). Arabia and Ethiopia. In The Oxford Handbook of Late Antiquity. OUP USA. pp. 304–305. ISBN 9780195336931.
^ Hans J. Hillerbrand (2012). A New History of Christianity. Abingdon. pp. 131–133, 367. ISBN 978-1-4267-1914-1.
Willem J. van Asselt; Paul Van Geest; Daniela Muller (2007). Iconoclasm and Iconoclash: Struggle for Religious Identity. BRILL Academic. pp. 8–9, 52–60. ISBN 978-90-04-16195-5.
Janowitz, Naomi (2007). "Good Jews Don't: Historical and Philosophical Constructions of Idolatry". History of Religions. 47 (2/3): 239–252. doi:10.1086/524212. S2CID 170216039.
^ Michael Willis (2009), The Archaeology of Hindu Ritual, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-51874-1, pages 96–112, 123–143, 168–172
Images of the Divine: The Theology of Icons at the Seventh Ecumenical Council
Michael Wayne Cole; Rebecca Zorach (2009). The Idol in the Age of Art: Objects, Devotions and the Early Modern World. Ashgate. pp. 77–81. ISBN 978-0-7546-5290-8.
^ a b c d e f g h Janowitz, Naomi (2007). "Good Jews Don't: Historical and Philosophical Constructions of Idolatry". History of Religions. 47 (2/3): 239–252. doi:10.1086/524212. S2CID 170216039.
Richardson, R. C. (1972). Puritanism in north-west England: a regional study of the diocese of Chester to 1642. Manchester, England: Manchester University Press. p. 26. ISBN 978-0-7190-0477-3.
^ Mark Juergensmeyer, Gurinder Singh Mann (2006). The Oxford Handbook of Global Religions. US: Oxford University Press. p. 41. ISBN 978-0-19-513798-9.
Terrance Shaw (2010). The Shaw's Revised King James Holy Bible. Trafford Publishing. p. 74. ISBN 978-1-4251-1667-5.
^ John F. Richards (1995). The Mughal Empire. Cambridge University Press. p. 178. ISBN 978-0-521-56603-2.
^ a b Natasha T. Seaman; Hendrik Terbrugghen (2012). The Religious Paintings of Hendrick Ter Brugghen: Reinventing Christian Painting After the Reformation in Utrecht. Ashgate. pp. 23–29. ISBN 978-1-4094-3495-5.
Michael Wayne Cole; Rebecca Zorach (2009). The Idol in the Age of Art: Objects, Devotions and the Early Modern World. Ashgate. p. 17. ISBN 978-0-7546-5290-8., Quote: "By negating African religious practices, the pejorative characterizations of these works as objects of idolatry served in vital ways to both demonize and dehumanize local populations, thereby providing a moral buttress for European religious and human trade practices on the continent".
Greg Roza (2008). Incan Mythology and Other Myths of the Andes. The Rosen Publishing Group. pp. 27–30. ISBN 978-1-4042-0739-4.
^ Terrance Shaw (2010). The Shaw's Revised King James Holy Bible. Trafford Publishing. p. 74. ISBN 978-1-4251-1667-5.
Margarita Simon Guillory (2011), Creating Selves: An Interdisciplinary Exploration of Self and Creativity in African American Religion, PhD Thesis, Awarded by Rice University, Advisor: Anthony Pinn, pages 122–128
Reuven Firestone (1999). Jihad: The Origin of Holy War in Islam. Oxford University Press. pp. 20–21, 85–89. ISBN 978-0-19-535219-1.
Paul Kugler (2008).Polly Young-Eisendrath; Terence Dawson (eds.). The Cambridge Companion to Jung. Cambridge University Press. pp. 78–79. ISBN 978-1-139-82798-0.
Robert W. Williamson (2013). Religion and Social Organization in Central Polynesia. Cambridge University Press. pp. 6–14, 37–38, 113, 323. ISBN 978-1-107-62569-3.
During and after the imposition of Catholic Christianity during Spanish colonialism, the Incan people retained their original beliefs in deities through syncretism, where they overlay the Christian God and teachings over their original beliefs and practices.[203][204][205] The male deity Inti became accepted as the Christian God, but the Andean rituals centered around idolatry of Incan deities have been retained and continued thereafter into the modern era by the Incan people.[205][206]
Some Hindu movements founded during the colonial era, such as the Arya Samaj and Satya Mahima Dharma reject idolatry.[143][144][145]
^ Rachel Neis (29 August 2013). The Sense of Sight in Rabbinic Culture. Cambridge University Press. pp. 99–100 with footnotes. ISBN 978-1-107-03251-4.
Patricia Crone (1980), Islam, Judeo-Christianity and Byzantine Iconoclasm, Jerusalem Studies in Arabic and Islam, Volume 2, pages 59–95
Jeffrey F. Hamburger (2002). St. John the Divine: The Deified Evangelist in Medieval Art and Theology. University of California Press. pp. 3, 18–24, 30–31. ISBN 978-0-520-22877-1.
Protestants did not abandon all icons and symbols of Christianity. They typically avoid the use of images, except the cross, in any context suggestive of veneration. The cross remained their central icon.[64][65] Technically both major branches of Christianity have had their icons, states Carlos Eire, a professor of religious studies and history, but its meaning has been different to each and "one man's devotion was another man's idolatry".[94] This was particularly true not only in the intra-Christian debate, states Eire, but also when soldiers of Catholic kings replaced "horrible Aztec idols" in the American colonies with "beautiful crosses and images of Mary and the saints".[94]
^ a b c Eric Reinders (2005).Francesco Pellizzi (ed.). Anthropology and Aesthetics, Volume 48: Autumn 2005. Harvard University Press. pp. 61–63. ISBN 978-0-87365-766-2.
Patrick Taylor; Frederick I. Case (2013). The Encyclopedia of Caribbean Religions. University of Illinois Press. pp. 1002–1003. ISBN 978-0-252-09433-0.
3Abrahamic religions											Toggle Abrahamic religions subsection																					3.1Judaism																											3.2Christianity																								3.2.1Catholicism																											3.2.2Orthodox Church																											3.2.3Protestantism																														3.3Islam
Tathāgatagarbha Thought: A Basis of Buddhist Devotionalism in East Asia
^ Michael Wayne Cole; Rebecca Zorach (2009). The Idol in the Age of Art: Objects, Devotions and the Early Modern World. Ashgate. p. 17. ISBN 978-0-7546-5290-8., Quote: "By negating African religious practices, the pejorative characterizations of these works as objects of idolatry served in vital ways to both demonize and dehumanize local populations, thereby providing a moral buttress for European religious and human trade practices on the continent".
St. John of Damascus, in his "On the Divine Image", defended the use of icons and images, in direct response to the Byzantine iconoclasm that began widespread destruction of religious images in the 8th century, with support from emperor Leo III and continued by his successor Constantine V during a period of religious war with the invading Umayyads.[69] John of Damascus wrote, "I venture to draw an image of the invisible God, not as invisible, but as having become visible for our sakes through flesh and blood", adding that images are expressions "for remembrance either of wonder, or an honor, or dishonor, or good, or evil" and that a book is also a written image in another form.[70][71] He defended the religious use of images based on the Christian doctrine of Jesus as an incarnation.[72]
^ Ronald P. Byars (2002). The Future of Protestant Worship: Beyond the Worship Wars. Westminster John Knox Press. pp. 43–44. ISBN 978-0-664-22572-8.
^ a b B. Morrill; J. Ziegler; S. Rodgers (2006). Practicing Catholic: Ritual, Body, and Contestation in Catholic Faith. Springer. pp. 79–80. ISBN 978-1-4039-8296-4.
Gothic Arches, Latin Crosses: Anti-Catholicism and American Church Designs in the Nineteenth Century
^ a b Kohler, Kaufmann; Blau, Ludwig (1906). "Idol-Worship". Jewish Encyclopedia. Kopelman Foundation. Archived from the original on 4 May 2013. Retrieved 18 April 2021.
"The "God of Israel" and the Politics of Divinity in Ancient Israel"
William Owen Cole and Piara Singh Sambhi (1995), The Sikhs: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices, Sussex Academic Press, ISBN 978-1898723134, page 44
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Moshe Halbertal; Avishai Margalit; Naomi Goldblum (1992). Idolatry. Harvard University Press. pp. 1–8, 85–86, 146–148. ISBN 978-0-674-44313-6.
Hugh Goddard (2000). A History of Christian-Muslim Relations. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 28. ISBN 978-1-56663-340-6., Quote: "in some verses it does appear to be suggested that Christians are guilty of both kufr and shirk. This is particularly the case in 5:72 ... In addition to 9:29, therefore, which has been discussed above and which refers to both Jews and Christians, other verses are extremely hostile to both Jews and Christians, other verses are extremely hostile to Christians in particular, suggesting that they both disbelieve (kafara) and are guilty of shirk."
^ idolism, Merriam Webster;Anthony Ephirim-Donkor (2012). African Religion Defined: A Systematic Study of Ancestor Worship among the Akan. University Press of America. p. 4. ISBN 978-0-7618-6058-7.
Naidoo, Thillayvel (1982). The Arya Samaj Movement in South Africa. Motilal Banarsidass. p. 158. ISBN 978-81-208-0769-3.
Paul Thieme (1984), "Indische Wörter und Sitten," in Kleine Schriften (Wiesbaden), Vol. 2, pages 343–370
Bakan, David (1961), "Idolatry in Religion and Science", The Christian Scholar, 44 (3): 223–230, JSTOR 41177237
^ Juan Eduardo Campo (2009). Encyclopedia of Islam. Infobase. pp. 420–421. ISBN 978-1-4381-2696-8., Quote: "[Kafir] They included those who practiced idolatry, did not accept the absolute oneness of God, denied that Muhammad was a prophet, ignored God's commandments and signs (singular aya) and rejected belief in a resurrection and final judgment."
John Bowker (2005). "Idolatry". The Concise Oxford Dictionary of World Religions. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acref/9780192800947.001.0001. ISBN 978-0-19-861053-3.
Willis, John Ralph (1967). "Jihād fī Sabīl Allāh—its Doctrinal Basis in Islam and some Aspects of its Evolution in Nineteenth-Century West Africa". The Journal of African History. 8 (3): 395. doi:10.1017/s0021853700007933. S2CID 154388861.
^ a b G. R. Hawting (1999). The Idea of Idolatry and the Emergence of Islam: From Polemic to History. Cambridge University Press. pp. 47–51, 67–70. ISBN 978-1-139-42635-0.
^ Paul Dundas (2002). The Jains, 2nd Edition. Routledge. pp. 39–40, 48–53. ISBN 978-0-415-26606-2.
Anthony Milton (2002). Catholic and Reformed: The Roman and Protestant Churches in English Protestant Thought. Cambridge University Press. pp. 186–195. ISBN 978-0-521-89329-9.
Lay and Monastic Forms of Pure Land Devotionalism: Typology and History
Byzantine Iconoclasm During the Reign of Leo III: With Particular Attention to the Oriental Sources
^ C Scott Littleton (2005). Gods, Goddesses, and Mythology. Marshall Cavendish. pp. 726–729. ISBN 978-0-7614-7565-1.
^ Marina Prusac; Kristine Kolrud (2014). Iconoclasm from Antiquity to Modernity. Ashgate. pp. 1–3. ISBN 978-1-4094-7033-5.
^ John F. Thornton; Susan B. Varenne (2006). Steward of God's Covenant: Selected Writings. Random House. p. 11. ISBN 978-1-4000-9648-0.;See John Calvin (1537) The Institutes of the Christian Religion, Quote: "The worship which they pay to their images they cloak with the name of εἰδωλοδυλεία (idolodulia), and deny to be εἰδωλολατρεία (idolatria). So they speak, holding that the worship which they call dulia may, without insult to God, be paid to statues and pictures. (...) For the Greek word λατρεύειν having no other meaning than to worship, what they say is just the same as if they were to confess that they worship their images without worshipping them. They cannot object that I am quibbling upon words. (...) But how eloquent soever they may be, they will never prove by their eloquence that one and the same thing makes two. Let them show how the things differ if they would be thought different from ancient idolaters."
violently forced others to accept and worship their conception of God
The Christian view of idolatry may generally be divided into two general categories: the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox view which accepts the use of religious images,[63] and the views of many Protestant churches that considerably restrict their use. However, many Protestants have used the image of the cross as a symbol.[64][65]
^ Allan Andrews (1993), Lay and Monastic Forms of Pure Land Devotionalism: Typology and History, Numen, Vol. 40, No. 1, pages 16–37
idolism, Merriam Webster;Anthony Ephirim-Donkor (2012). African Religion Defined: A Systematic Study of Ancestor Worship among the Akan. University Press of America. p. 4. ISBN 978-0-7618-6058-7.
^ "Allah – Oxford Islamic Studies Online". www.oxfordislamicstudies.com. Retrieved 25 August 2018. Only god in Mecca not represented by idol.
The earliest historic records confirming cult images are from the ancient Egyptian civilization, thereafter related to the Greek civilization.[36] By the 2nd millennium BC two broad forms of cult image appear, in one images are zoomorphic (god in the image of animal or animal-human fusion) and in another anthropomorphic (god in the image of man).[32] The former is more commonly found in ancient Egypt influenced beliefs, while the anthropomorphic images are more commonly found in Indo-European cultures.[36][37] Symbols of nature, useful animals or feared animals may also be included by both. The stelae from 4,000 to 2,500 BC period discovered in France, Ireland through Ukraine, and in Central Asia through South Asia, suggest that the ancient anthropomorphic figures included zoomorphic motifs.[37] In Nordic and Indian subcontinent, bovine (cow, ox, -*gwdus, -*g'ou) motifs or statues, for example, were common.[38][39] In Ireland, iconic images included pigs.[40]
^ "UBA: Rosenthaliana 1768" [English: 1768: The Ten Commandments, copied in Amsterdam Jekuthiel Sofer] (in Dutch). Retrieved 26 April 2012.
^ a b John Cort (2010). Framing the Jina: Narratives of Icons and Idols in Jain History. Oxford University Press. pp. 3, 8–12, 45–46, 219–228, 234–236. ISBN 978-0-19-045257-5.
According to John Grimes, a professor of Indian philosophy, Indian thought denied even dogmatic idolatry of its scriptures. Everything has been left to challenge, arguments and enquiry, with the medieval Indian scholar Vācaspati Miśra stating that not all scripture is authoritative, only scripture which "reveals the identity of the individual self and the supreme self as the non-dual Absolute".[118]
^ Hayes, Christine (2012). "Understanding Biblical Monotheism". Introduction to the Bible. The Open Yale Courses Series. New Haven and London: Yale University Press. pp. 15–28. ISBN 9780300181791. JSTOR j.ctt32bxpm.6.
Spink, Walter M. (2006). Ajanta: History and Development Volume 5: Cave by Cave. Leiden: Brill Academic. pp. 179–180. ISBN 978-90-04-15644-9.
^ Bernard, David K. (2019) [2016]. "Monotheism in Paul's Rhetorical World". The Glory of God in the Face of Jesus Christ: Deification of Jesus in Early Christian Discourse. Journal of Pentecostal Theology: Supplement Series. Vol. 45. Leiden and Boston: Brill Publishers. pp. 53–82. ISBN 978-90-04-39721-7. ISSN 0966-7393.
Brichto, Herbert Chanan (1983), "The Worship of the Golden Calf: A Literary Analysis of a Fable on Idolatry", Hebrew Union College Annual, 54: 1–44, JSTOR 23507659
Ideas on idolatry in Christianity are based on the first of Ten Commandments. .mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}
^ a b Peter Roger Stuart Moorey (2003). Idols of the People: Miniature Images of Clay in the Ancient Near East. Oxford University Press. pp. 1–15. ISBN 978-0-19-726280-1.
Barry Kogan (1992). Proceedings of the Academy for Jewish Philosophy. University Press of America. pp. 169–170. ISBN 978-0-8191-7925-8.
Janet Parker; Julie Stanton (2007). Mythology: Myths, Legends and Fantasies. Struik Publishers. p. 501. ISBN 978-1-77007-453-8.
"Shabad the Lord is One and His Word is True.. ਵਾਹਿਗੁਰੂ ਜੀ ਕੀ ਫ਼ਤਹ ॥ - SikhiToTheMax".
The Ancient Egyptian religion was polytheistic, with large cult images that were either animals or included animal parts.Ancient Greek civilization preferred human forms, with idealized proportions, for divine representation.[36] The Canaanites of West Asia incorporated a golden calf in their pantheon.[41]
Kenelm Henry Digby (1841). Mores Catholici : Or Ages of Faith. Catholic Society. pp. 408–410.
^ a b Leora Batnitzky (2009). Idolatry and Representation: The Philosophy of Franz Rosenzweig Reconsidered. Princeton University Press. pp. 147–156. ISBN 978-1-4008-2358-1.
^ Gabriel Balima (2008). Satanic Christianity and the Creation of the Seventh Day. Dorrance. pp. 72–73. ISBN 978-1-4349-9280-2.
C Scott Littleton (2005). Gods, Goddesses, and Mythology. Marshall Cavendish. pp. 726–729. ISBN 978-0-7614-7565-1.
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
Alan L. Kolata (2013). Ancient Inca. Cambridge University Press. p. 164. ISBN 978-0-521-86900-3.
^ Spink, Walter M. (2006). Ajanta: History and Development Volume 5: Cave by Cave. Leiden: Brill Academic. pp. 179–180. ISBN 978-90-04-15644-9.
According to Eric Reinders, icons and idolatry have been an integral part of Buddhism throughout its later history.[119] Buddhists, from Korea to Vietnam, Thailand to Tibet, Central Asia to South Asia, have long produced temples and idols, altars and rosaries, relics to amulets, images to ritual implements.[119][120][121] The images or relics of Buddha are found in all Buddhist traditions, but they also feature gods and goddesses such as those in Tibetan Buddhism.[119][122]
Waldman, Marilyn Robinson (1968). "The Development of the Concept of Kufr in the Qur'ān". Journal of the American Oriental Society. 88 (3): 442–455. doi:10.2307/596869. JSTOR 596869.
Christian Julien Robin (2012). Arabia and Ethiopia. In The Oxford Handbook of Late Antiquity. OUP USA. pp. 304–305. ISBN 9780195336931.
The Church in the Shadow of the Mosque: Christians and Muslims in the World of Islam
"Shabad the Lord is One and His Word is True.. ਵਾਹਿਗੁਰੂ ਜੀ ਕੀ ਫ਼ਤਹ ॥ - SikhiToTheMax"
^ Allen Shapiro (2011), Judean pillar figurines: a study, MA Thesis, Advisor: Barry Gittlen, Towson University, United States
^ Robert W. Williamson (2013). Religion and Social Organization in Central Polynesia. Cambridge University Press. pp. 6–14, 37–38, 113, 323. ISBN 978-1-107-62569-3.
Hayes, Christine (2012). "Understanding Biblical Monotheism". Introduction to the Bible. The Open Yale Courses Series. New Haven and London: Yale University Press. pp. 15–28. ISBN 9780300181791. JSTOR j.ctt32bxpm.6.
André Wink (1997). Al-Hind the Making of the Indo-Islamic World. BRILL Academic. pp. 317–324. ISBN 978-90-04-10236-1.
^ Regina Schwartz (2016). Loving Justice, Living Shakespeare. Oxford University Press. pp. 32–34. ISBN 978-0-19-251460-8.
Ye shall make you no idols nor graven image, neither rear you up a standing image, neither shall ye set up any image of stone in your land, to bow down unto it: for I am the Lord your God. Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary.
Kohler, Kaufmann; Blau, Ludwig (1906). "Idol-Worship". Jewish Encyclopedia. Kopelman Foundation. Archived from the original on 4 May 2013. Retrieved 18 April 2021.
Minoru Kiyota (1985), Tathāgatagarbha Thought: A Basis of Buddhist Devotionalism in East Asia, Japanese Journal of Religious Studies, Vol. 12, No. 2/3, pages 207–231
The Queen of Heaven: Màmma Schiavona (the Black Mother), the Madonna of the Pignasecea: a Delineation of the Great Idolatry
^ a b c Shirk, Encyclopædia Britannica, Quote: "Shirk, (Arabic: "making a partner [of someone]"), in Islam, idolatry, polytheism, and the association of God with other deities. The definition of Shirk differs in Islamic Schools, from Shiism and some classical Sunni Sufism accepting, sometimes, images, pilgrimage to shrines and veneration of relics and saints, to the more puritan Salafi-Wahhabi current, that condemns all the previous mentioned practices. The Quran stresses in many verses that God does not share his powers with any partner (sharik). It warns those who believe their idols will intercede for them that they, together with the idols, will become fuel for hellfire on the Day of Judgment ( 21:98)."
^ Jeffrey F. Hamburger (2002). St. John the Divine: The Deified Evangelist in Medieval Art and Theology. University of California Press. pp. 3, 18–24, 30–31. ISBN 978-0-520-22877-1.
^ Catechism of The Catholic Church, passage 2113, p. 460, Geoffrey Chapman, 1999
A Mandair (2011), Time and religion-making in modern Sikhism, in Time, History and the Religious Imaginary in South Asia (Editor: Anne Murphy), Routledge, ISBN 978-0415595971, page 188-190
Robert W. Williamson (2013). Religion and Social Organization in Central Polynesia. Cambridge University Press. pp. 5–6. ISBN 978-1-107-62569-3.
Idolatry and The Colonial Idea of India: Visions of Horror, Allegories of Enlightenment
T. J. Wray (2011). What the Bible Really Tells Us: The Essential Guide to Biblical Literacy. Rowman & Littlefield Publishers. pp. 164–165. ISBN 978-1-4422-1293-0.
Sidney H. Griffith (2012). The Church in the Shadow of the Mosque: Christians and Muslims in the World of Islam. Princeton University Press. pp. 143–145. ISBN 978-1-4008-3402-0.
^ Patrick Taylor; Frederick I. Case (2013). The Encyclopedia of Caribbean Religions. University of Illinois Press. pp. 1002–1003. ISBN 978-0-252-09433-0.
L. A. Craighen (1914). The Practice of Idolatry. Taylor & Taylor. pp. 21–26, 30–31.
^ a b c Leone, Massimo (Spring 2016).Asif, Agha (ed.). "Smashing Idols: A Paradoxical Semiotics" (PDF). Signs and Society. Chicago: University of Chicago Press on behalf of the Semiosis Research Center at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies. 4 (1): 30–56. doi:10.1086/684586. eISSN 2326-4497. hdl:2318/1561609. ISSN 2326-4489. S2CID 53408911. Archived (PDF) from the original on 23 September 2017. Retrieved 28 July 2021.
^ Benedict Groschel (2010). I Am with You Always: A Study of the History and Meaning of Personal Devotion to Jesus Christ for Catholic, Orthodox, and Protestant Christians. Ignatius. pp. 58–60. ISBN 978-1-58617-257-2.
^ Greg Roza (2008). Incan Mythology and Other Myths of the Andes. The Rosen Publishing Group. pp. 27–30. ISBN 978-1-4042-0739-4.
^ Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Idolatry" . Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 14 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 288.
Sylvia Estienne (2015).Rubina Raja and Jörg Rüpke (ed.). A Companion to the Archaeology of Religion in the Ancient World. John Wiley & Sons. pp. 379–384. ISBN 978-1-4443-5000-5.
The vast majority of religions in history have been and/or are still polytheistic, worshipping many diverse deities.[220] Moreover, the material depiction of a deity or more deities has always played an eminent role in all cultures of the world.[7] The claim to worship the "one and only true God" came to most of the world with the arrival of Abrahamic religions and is the distinguishing characteristic of their monotheistic worldview,[5][220][221][222] whereas virtually all the other religions in the world have been and/or are still animistic and polytheistic.[220] Some Neopagan religions such as Wicca utilize statues of deities within their worship experience.[223]
Mark Juergensmeyer, Gurinder Singh Mann (2006). The Oxford Handbook of Global Religions. US: Oxford University Press. p. 41. ISBN 978-0-19-513798-9.
Raeburn, J. (2001). Celtic Wicca: Ancient Wisdom for the 21st Century. Kensington Publishing Corporation. p. 24. ISBN 978-0-8065-2229-6. Retrieved 28 February 2023.
Rees, D. (1976). North Korea, Undermining the Truce. Conflict studies. Institute for the Study of Conflict. ISBN 978-0-903366-43-4. Retrieved 17 February 2023.
Homa Variations: The Study of Ritual Change Across the Longue Durée
Henry Ede Eze (2011). Images in Catholicism ...idolatry?: Discourse on the First Commandment With Biblical Citations. St. Paul Press. pp. 11–14. ISBN 978-0-9827966-9-6.
Sebastian Dabovich (1898). The Holy Orthodox Church: Or, The Ritual, Services and Sacraments of the Eastern Apostolic (Greek-Russian) Church. American Review of Eastern Orthodoxy. pp. 21–22. ISBN 9780899810300.
^ Sylvia Estienne (2015).Rubina Raja and Jörg Rüpke (ed.). A Companion to the Archaeology of Religion in the Ancient World. John Wiley & Sons. pp. 379–384. ISBN 978-1-4443-5000-5.
^ Richardson, R. C. (1972). Puritanism in north-west England: a regional study of the diocese of Chester to 1642. Manchester, England: Manchester University Press. p. 26. ISBN 978-0-7190-0477-3.
^ a b c d Angelini, Anna (2021). "Les dieux des autres: entre «démons» et «idoles»". L'imaginaire du démoniaque dans la Septante: Une analyse comparée de la notion de "démon" dans la Septante et dans la Bible Hébraïque. Supplements to the Journal for the Study of Judaism (in French). Vol. 197. Leiden and Boston: Brill Publishers. pp. 184–224. doi:10.1163/9789004468474_008. ISBN 978-90-04-46847-4.
Leora Batnitzky (2009). Idolatry and Representation: The Philosophy of Franz Rosenzweig Reconsidered. Princeton University Press. pp. 147–156. ISBN 978-1-4008-2358-1.
^ Sidney H. Griffith (2012). The Church in the Shadow of the Mosque: Christians and Muslims in the World of Islam. Princeton University Press. pp. 143–145. ISBN 978-1-4008-3402-0.
Those who say, “Allah is the Messiah, son of Mary,” have certainly fallen into disbelief. The Messiah ˹himself˺ said, “O Children of Israel! Worship Allah—my Lord and your Lord.” Whoever associates others with Allah ˹in worship˺ will surely be forbidden Paradise by Allah. Their home will be the Fire. And the wrongdoers will have no helpers.
^ Stern, Sacha (1994). Jewish Identity in Early Rabbinic Writings. BRILL. p. 9 with footnotes 47–48. ISBN 978-9004100121. Retrieved 18 October 2013.
^ Boria Sax (2001). The Mythical Zoo: An Encyclopedia of Animals in World Myth, Legend, and Literature. ABC-CLIO. pp. 48–49. ISBN 978-1-57607-612-5.
Bhakti (called Bhatti in Pali) has been a common practice in Theravada Buddhism, where offerings and group prayers are made to Cetiya and particularly images of Buddha.[123][124] Karel Werner notes that Bhakti has been a significant practice in Theravada Buddhism, and states, "there can be no doubt that deep devotion or bhakti / bhatti does exist in Buddhism and that it had its beginnings in the earliest days".[125]
The Religious Paintings of Hendrick Ter Brugghen: Reinventing Christian Painting After the Reformation in Utrecht
Colin Beckley; Elspeth Waters (2008). Who Holds the Moral High Ground?. Societas Imprint Academic. pp. 10–11. ISBN 978-1-84540-103-0.
Hardip Syan (2014), in The Oxford Handbook of Sikh Studies (Editors: Pashaura Singh, Louis E. Fenech), Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0199699308, page 178
The body of Christ on the cross is an ancient symbol used within the Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Anglican, and Lutheran Churches, in contrast with some Protestant groups, which use only a simple cross. In Judaism, the reverence to the icon of Christ in the form of cross has been seen as idolatry.[97] However, some Jewish scholars disagree and consider Christianity to be based on Jewish belief and not truly idolatrous.[98]
4Indian religions											Toggle Indian religions subsection																					4.1Buddhism																											4.2Hinduism																											4.3Jainism																											4.4Sikhism
Courtney T. Goto (2016). The Grace of Playing: Pedagogies for Leaning into God's New Creation. Wipf and Stock. pp. 67–68. ISBN 978-1-4982-3300-2.
Gerald Parsons (1993). The Growth of Religious Diversity: Traditions. Routledge. p. 211. ISBN 978-0-415-08326-3.
Natasha T. Seaman; Hendrik Terbrugghen (2012). The Religious Paintings of Hendrick Ter Brugghen: Reinventing Christian Painting After the Reformation in Utrecht. Ashgate. pp. 23–29. ISBN 978-1-4094-3495-5.
Reuven Firestone (1999). Jihad: The Origin of Holy War in Islam. Oxford University Press. pp. 88–89. ISBN 978-0-19-535219-1.
^ JÜRGEN THIMME (1965), DIE RELIGIÖSE BEDEUTUNG DER KYKLADENIDOLE, Antike Kunst, 8. Jahrg., H. 2. (1965), pages 72–86 (in German)
^ a b c Smart, Ninian (10 November 2020) [26 July 1999]. "Polytheism". Encyclopædia Britannica. Edinburgh: Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Archived from the original on 11 November 2020. Retrieved 25 April 2021.
Regina Schwartz (2016). Loving Justice, Living Shakespeare. Oxford University Press. pp. 32–34. ISBN 978-0-19-251460-8.
^ Bosworth, C. E.; van Donzel, E. J.; Heinrichs, W. P.; Lewis, B.; Pellat, Ch.; Schacht, J., eds. (1971). "Idol, Idolatry". Encyclopaedia of Islam, Second Edition. Vol. 3. Leiden: Brill Publishers. doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_DUM_1900. ISBN 978-90-04-16121-4.
Patrick Taylor; Frederick I. Case (30 April 2013). The Encyclopedia of Caribbean Religions. University of Illinois Press. pp. 560–562. ISBN 978-0-252-09433-0.
Angelini, Anna (2021). "Les dieux des autres: entre «démons» et «idoles»". L'imaginaire du démoniaque dans la Septante: Une analyse comparée de la notion de "démon" dans la Septante et dans la Bible Hébraïque. Supplements to the Journal for the Study of Judaism (in French). Vol. 197. Leiden and Boston: Brill Publishers. pp. 184–224. doi:10.1163/9789004468474_008. ISBN 978-90-04-46847-4.
W. Owen Cole; Piara Singh Sambhi (1993). Sikhism and Christianity: A Comparative Study (Themes in Comparative Religion). Wallingford, United Kingdom: Palgrave Macmillan. pp. 117–118. ISBN 978-0333541074.
^ Trudy Ring; Noelle Watson; Paul Schellinger (2012). Asia and Oceania: International Dictionary of Historic Places. Routledge. p. 256. ISBN 978-1-136-63979-1., Quote: "Some had been desecrated by zealous Muslims during their occupation of Maharashtra in the fifteenth, sixteenth and seventeenth centuries."
Peter Harvey (2013). An Introduction to Buddhism: Teachings, History and Practices. Cambridge University Press. pp. 194–195. ISBN 978-0-521-85942-4.
^ Ibn Ishaq, Muhammad (1955). Ibn Ishaq's Sirat Rasul Allah – The Life of Muhammad Translated by A. Guillaume. The text reads "O God, do not be afraid", the second footnote reads "The feminine form indicates the Ka'ba itself is addressed". Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 85 footnote 2. ISBN 9780196360331.
St. John the Divine: The Deified Evangelist in Medieval Art and Theology
^ a b Ibn Ishaq, Muhammad (1955). Ibn Ishaq's Sirat Rasul Allah – The Life of Muhammad Translated by A. Guillaume. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 88–9. ISBN 9780196360331.
Lindsay Jones, ed. (2005). Gale Encyclopedia of Religion. Vol. 11. Thompson Gale. pp. 7493–7495. ISBN 978-0-02-865980-0.
Leone, Massimo (Spring 2016).Asif, Agha (ed.). "Smashing Idols: A Paradoxical Semiotics" (PDF). Signs and Society. Chicago: University of Chicago Press on behalf of the Semiosis Research Center at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies. 4 (1): 30–56. doi:10.1086/684586. eISSN 2326-4497. hdl:2318/1561609. ISSN 2326-4489. S2CID 53408911. Archived (PDF) from the original on 23 September 2017. Retrieved 28 July 2021.
Catholic and Reformed: The Roman and Protestant Churches in English Protestant Thought
Judaism in Practice: From the Middle Ages Through the Early Modern Period
Reuven Chaim Klein (2018). God versus Gods: Judaism in the Age of Idolatry. Mosaica Press. ISBN 978-1946351463.
^ Catechism of the Catholic Church - Paragraph # 2132. Retrieved 26 May 2021.
^ "Shabad the Lord is One and His Word is True.. ਵਾਹਿਗੁਰੂ ਜੀ ਕੀ ਫ਼ਤਹ ॥ - SikhiToTheMax".
Steinsaltz, Rabbi Adin. "Introduction - Masechet Avodah Zarah". The Coming Week's Daf Yomi. Retrieved 31 May 2013., Quote: "Over time, however, new religions developed whose basis is in Jewish belief – such as Christianity and Islam – which are based on belief in the Creator and whose adherents follow commandments that are similar to some Torah laws (see the uncensored Rambam in his Mishneh Torah, Hilkhot Melakhim 11:4). All of the rishonim agree that adherents of these religions are not idol worshippers and should not be treated as the pagans described in the Torah."
Van der Toorn, Karel (1999). "God (I)".In Van der Toorn, Karel; Becking, Bob; Van der Horst, Pieter W. (eds.). Dictionary of Deities and Demons in the Bible (2nd ed.). Leiden: Brill Publishers. pp. 352–365. doi:10.1163/2589-7802_DDDO_DDDO_Godi. ISBN 90-04-11119-0.
^ a b Christopher John Fuller (2004). The Camphor Flame: Popular Hinduism and Society in India. Princeton University Press. pp. 58–61. ISBN 978-0-691-12048-5.
Moshe Halbertal; Avishai Margalit; Naomi Goldblum (1992). Idolatry. Harvard University Press. pp. 39–40, 102–103, 116–119. ISBN 978-0-674-44313-6.
Jeaneane D. Fowler (1996), Hinduism: Beliefs and Practices, Sussex Academic Press, ISBN 978-1-898723-60-8, pages 41–45
This is expressed in the Bible in Exodus 20:3, Matthew 4:10, Luke 4:8 and elsewhere, e.g.:[61]
^ John Grimes (1994). Problems and Perspectives in Religious Discourse. State University of New York Press. pp. 60–61. ISBN 978-0-7914-1791-1.
Framing the Jina: Narratives of Icons and Idols in Jain History
^ a b Smith, Mark S. (2000). "El".In Freedman, David Noel; Myer, Allen C. (eds.). Eerdmans Dictionary of the Bible. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Wm. B. Eerdmans. pp. 384–386. ISBN 9053565035.
^ Stephanie W. Jamison (2011), The Ravenous Hyenas and the Wounded Sun: Myth and Ritual in Ancient India, Cornell University Press, ISBN 978-0801477324, pages 15-17
Idolatry not only refers to false pagan worship. It remains a constant temptation to faith. Idolatry consists in divinizing what is not God. Man commits idolatry whenever he honors and reveres a creature in place of God, whether this be gods or demons (for example, satanism), power, pleasure, race, ancestors, the state, money, etc.[80]
The Holy Orthodox Church: Or, The Ritual, Services and Sacraments of the Eastern Apostolic (Greek-Russian) Church
Simon Ross Valentine (2014). Force and Fanaticism: Wahhabism in Saudi Arabia and Beyond. Oxford University Press. pp. 47–48. ISBN 978-1-84904-464-6., Quote: "In reference to Wahhabi strictness in applying their moral code, Corancez writes that the distinguishing feature of the Wahhabis was their intolerance, which they pursued to hitherto unknown extremes, holding idolatry as a crime punishable by death".
^ Alice Boner, Sadāśiva Rath Śarmā and Bettina Bäumer (2000), Vāstusūtra Upaniṣad, Motilal Banarsidass, ISBN 978-81-208-0090-8, page 9
^ Douglas Q. Adams (1997). Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture. Routledge. pp. 124, 129–130, 134, 137–138. ISBN 978-1-884964-98-5.
^ Suresh K. Sharma; Usha Sharma (2004). Cultural and Religious Heritage of India: Jainism. Mittal. pp. 53–54. ISBN 978-81-7099-957-7.
Rubiés, Joan Pau (2006). "Theology, Ethnography, and the Historicization of Idolatry". Journal of the History of Ideas. 67 (4): 571–596. doi:10.1353/jhi.2006.0038. S2CID 170863835.
^ a b c Stahl, Michael J. (2021). "The "God of Israel" and the Politics of Divinity in Ancient Israel". The "God of Israel" in History and Tradition. Vetus Testamentum: Supplements. Vol. 187. Leiden: Brill Publishers. pp. 52–144. doi:10.1163/9789004447721_003. ISBN 978-90-04-44772-1. S2CID 236752143.
The Politics of Iconoclasm: Religion, Violence and the Culture of Image-Breaking in Christianity and Islam
Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Idolatry" . Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 14 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 288.
Pori Park (2012), Devotionalism Reclaimed: Re-mapping Sacred Geography in Contemporary Korean Buddhism, Journal of Korean Religions, Vol. 3, No. 2, pages 153–171
Ambrosios Giakalis (2005). Images of the Divine: The Theology of Icons at the Seventh Ecumenical Council. Brill Academic. pp. viii–ix, 1–3. ISBN 978-90-04-14328-9.
^ W. Owen Cole; Piara Singh Sambhi (1993). Sikhism and Christianity: A Comparative Study (Themes in Comparative Religion). Wallingford, United Kingdom: Palgrave Macmillan. pp. 117–118. ISBN 978-0333541074.
Horst Woldemar Janson; Anthony F. Janson (2003). History of Art: The Western Tradition. Prentice Hall. p. 386. ISBN 978-0-13-182895-7.
^ a b c Van der Toorn, Karel (1999). "God (I)".In Van der Toorn, Karel; Becking, Bob; Van der Horst, Pieter W. (eds.). Dictionary of Deities and Demons in the Bible (2nd ed.). Leiden: Brill Publishers. pp. 352–365. doi:10.1163/2589-7802_DDDO_DDDO_Godi. ISBN 90-04-11119-0.
^ Saint John (of Damascus) (1898). St. John Damascene on Holy Images: (pros Tous Diaballontas Tas Agias Eikonas). T. Baker. pp. 5–6, 12–17.
Smart, Ninian (10 November 2020) [26 July 1999]. "Polytheism". Encyclopædia Britannica. Edinburgh: Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Archived from the original on 11 November 2020. Retrieved 28 July 2021.
African Religion Defined: A Systematic Study of Ancestor Worship among the Akan
Juan Eduardo Campo (2009). Encyclopedia of Islam. Infobase. pp. 420–421. ISBN 978-1-4381-2696-8., Quote: "[Kafir] They included those who practiced idolatry, did not accept the absolute oneness of God, denied that Muhammad was a prophet, ignored God's commandments and signs (singular aya) and rejected belief in a resurrection and final judgment."
Sylvester A. Johnson (2015). African American Religions, 1500–2000: Colonialism, Democracy, and Freedom. Cambridge University Press. pp. 49–51. ISBN 978-1-316-36814-5.
Arabia and Ethiopia. In The Oxford Handbook of Late Antiquity
Christopher John Fuller (2004). The Camphor Flame: Popular Hinduism and Society in India. Princeton University Press. pp. 58–61. ISBN 978-0-691-12048-5.
The Mythical Zoo: An Encyclopedia of Animals in World Myth, Legend, and Literature
^ J Mezies (1841). Abolition of Idolatry in Polynesia. Vol. XXIV (The Journal of civilization ed.). Society for the Advancement of Civilization. pp. 370–373.
^ Leora Faye Batnitzky (2000). Idolatry and Representation: The Philosophy of Franz Rosenzweig Reconsidered. Princeton University Press. p. 145. ISBN 978-0-691-04850-5.
Ambiguous Gender in Early Modern Spain and Portugal: Inquisitors, Doctors and the Transgression of Gender Norms
Josh Ellenbogen; Aaron Tugendhaft (2011). Idol Anxiety. Stanford University Press. pp. 29–35, 60–74. ISBN 978-0-8047-8181-7.
^ Sebastian Dabovich (1898). The Holy Orthodox Church: Or, The Ritual, Services and Sacraments of the Eastern Apostolic (Greek-Russian) Church. American Review of Eastern Orthodoxy. pp. 21–22. ISBN 9780899810300.
^ Lata, Prem (1990). Swami Dayānanda Sarasvatī. Sumit Publications. p. x. ISBN 978-81-7000-114-0.
The Christian missionaries, particularly from the London Missionary Society such as John Williams, and others such as the Methodist Missionary Society, characterized these as idolatry, in the sense of islanders worshipping false gods. They sent back reports which primarily focussed on "overthrow of pagan idolatry" as evidence of their Christian sects triumph, with fewer mentions of actual converts and baptism.[209][210]
^ Kathleen M. Ashley; Robert L. A. Clark (2001). Medieval Conduct. University of Minnesota Press. pp. 211–212. ISBN 978-0-8166-3576-4.
^ a b Alice Boner, Sadāśiva Rath Śarmā and Bettina Bäumer (2000), Vāstusūtra Upaniṣad, Motilal Banarsidass, ISBN 978-81-208-0090-8, pages 7–9, for context see 1–10
^ David Sansone (2016). Ancient Greek Civilization. Wiley. pp. 275–276. ISBN 978-1-119-09814-0.
^ Patrick Taylor; Frederick I. Case (30 April 2013). The Encyclopedia of Caribbean Religions. University of Illinois Press. pp. 560–562. ISBN 978-0-252-09433-0.
^ DiBernardo, Sabatino (2008). "American Idol(atry): A Religious Profanation". The Journal of Religion and Popular Culture. 19 (1): 1–2. doi:10.3138/jrpc.19.1.001., Quote: "Idolatry (...) in the first commandment denotes the notion of worship, adoration, or reverence of an image of God."
^ Sylvester A. Johnson (2015). African American Religions, 1500–2000: Colonialism, Democracy, and Freedom. Cambridge University Press. pp. 49–51. ISBN 978-1-316-36814-5.
^ Yeo, A.; Chubb, D. (2018). North Korean Human Rights: Activists and Networks. Cambridge University Press. p. 262. ISBN 978-1-108-69284-7. Retrieved 17 February 2023.
Idolatry is the worship of a cult image or "idol" as though it were God.[1][2][3] In Abrahamic religions (namely Judaism, Samaritanism, Christianity, the Baháʼí Faith, and Islam) idolatry connotes the worship of something or someone other than the Abrahamic god as if it were God.[4][5] In these monotheistic religions, idolatry has been considered as the "worship of false gods" and is forbidden by texts such as the Ten Commandments.[4] Other monotheistic religions may apply similar rules.[6]
^ a b Barry Kogan (1992). Proceedings of the Academy for Jewish Philosophy. University Press of America. pp. 169–170. ISBN 978-0-8191-7925-8.
^ John Cort, Jains in the World : Religious Values and Ideology in India, Oxford University Press, ISBN, pages 64–68, 86–90, 100–112
Niehr, Herbert (1995). "The Rise of YHWH in Judahite and Israelite Religion: Methodological and Religio-Historical Aspects".In Edelman, Diana Vikander (ed.). The Triumph of Elohim: From Yahwisms to Judaisms. Leuven: Peeters Publishers. pp. 45–72. ISBN 978-9053565032. OCLC 33819403.
A Companion to the Archaeology of Religion in the Ancient World
Creating Selves: An Interdisciplinary Exploration of Self and Creativity in African American Religion
^ Hugh Goddard (2000). A History of Christian-Muslim Relations. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 28. ISBN 978-1-56663-340-6., Quote: "in some verses it does appear to be suggested that Christians are guilty of both kufr and shirk. This is particularly the case in 5:72 ... In addition to 9:29, therefore, which has been discussed above and which refers to both Jews and Christians, other verses are extremely hostile to both Jews and Christians, other verses are extremely hostile to Christians in particular, suggesting that they both disbelieve (kafara) and are guilty of shirk."
G. R. Hawting (1999). The Idea of Idolatry and the Emergence of Islam: From Polemic to History. Cambridge University Press. pp. 47–51, 67–70. ISBN 978-1-139-42635-0.
^ a b c d e f g h Jeaneane D. Fowler (1996), Hinduism: Beliefs and Practices, Sussex Academic Press, ISBN 978-1-898723-60-8, pages 41–45
Ronald P. Byars (2002). The Future of Protestant Worship: Beyond the Worship Wars. Westminster John Knox Press. pp. 43–44. ISBN 978-0-664-22572-8.
Klaus Klostermaier (2007) Hinduism: A Beginner's Guide, 2nd Edition, Oxford: OneWorld Publications, ISBN 978-1-85168-163-1, pages 63–65
Erich Kolig (2012). Conservative Islam: A Cultural Anthropology. Rowman & Littlefield. pp. 71 with footnote 2. ISBN 978-0-7391-7424-1.
^ Rev. Robert William Dibdin (1851). England warned and counselled; 4 lectures on popery and tractarianism. James Nisbet. p. 20.
Frohn, Elke Sophie; Lützenkirchen, H.-Georg (2007). "Idol".In von Stuckrad, Kocku (ed.). The Brill Dictionary of Religion. Leiden and Boston: Brill Publishers. doi:10.1163/1872-5287_bdr_SIM_00041. ISBN 9789004124332. S2CID 240180055.
Hans J. Hillerbrand (2012). A New History of Christianity. Abingdon. pp. 131–133, 367. ISBN 978-1-4267-1914-1.
Shirk, Encyclopædia Britannica, Quote: "Shirk, (Arabic: "making a partner [of someone]"), in Islam, idolatry, polytheism, and the association of God with other deities. The definition of Shirk differs in Islamic Schools, from Shiism and some classical Sunni Sufism accepting, sometimes, images, pilgrimage to shrines and veneration of relics and saints, to the more puritan Salafi-Wahhabi current, that condemns all the previous mentioned practices. The Quran stresses in many verses that God does not share his powers with any partner (sharik). It warns those who believe their idols will intercede for them that they, together with the idols, will become fuel for hellfire on the Day of Judgment ( 21:98)."
"El, Yahweh, and the Original God of Israel and the Exodus"
^ James Bonwick (1894). Irish Druids and Old Irish Religions. Griffith, Farran. pp. 230–231.
René A. Bravmann (1980). Islam and Tribal Art in West Africa. Cambridge University Press. pp. 15–21, 36–37. ISBN 978-0-521-29791-2.
Noel Salmond (2006). Hindu Iconoclasts: Rammohun Roy, Dayananda Sarasvati, and Nineteenth-Century Polemics against Idolatry. Wilfrid Laurier University Press. pp. 15–17. ISBN 978-1-55458-128-3.
Hindu Iconoclasts: Rammohun Roy, Dayananda Sarasvati, and Nineteenth-Century Polemics against Idolatry
Carlos M. N. Eire (1989). War Against the Idols: The Reformation of Worship from Erasmus to Calvin. Cambridge University Press. pp. 5–7. ISBN 978-0-521-37984-7.
Devotional idolatry has been a prevalent ancient practice in various Jaina sects, wherein learned Tirthankara (Jina) and human gurus have been venerated with offerings, songs and Āratī prayers.[146] Like other major Indian religions, Jainism has premised its spiritual practices on the belief that "all knowledge is inevitably mediated by images" and human beings discover, learn and know what is to be known through "names, images and representations". Thus, idolatry has been a part of the major sects of Jainism such as Digambara and Shvetambara.[147] The earliest archaeological evidence of the idols and images in Jainism is from Mathura, and has been dated to be from the first half of the 1st millennium AD.[148]
^ a b c Fabio Rambelli; Eric Reinders (2012). Buddhism and Iconoclasm in East Asia: A History. Bloomsbury Academic. pp. 17–19, 23–24, 89–93. ISBN 978-1-4411-8168-8.
^ Donald Swearer (2003), Buddhism in the Modern World: Adaptations of an Ancient Tradition (Editors: Heine and Prebish), Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0195146981, pages 9–25
Prospect Theory and Foreign Policy Analysis in the Asia Pacific: Rational Leaders and Risky Behavior
Idols of the People: Miniature Images of Clay in the Ancient Near East
Ibn Ishaq's Sirat Rasul Allah – The Life of Muhammad Translated by A. Guillaume. The text reads "O God, do not be afraid", the second footnote reads "The feminine form indicates the Ka'ba itself is addressed"
^ Rubiés, Joan Pau (2006). "Theology, Ethnography, and the Historicization of Idolatry". Journal of the History of Ideas. 67 (4): 571–596. doi:10.1353/jhi.2006.0038. S2CID 170863835.
Ibn Ishaq, Muhammad (1955). Ibn Ishaq's Sirat Rasul Allah – The Life of Muhammad Translated by A. Guillaume. The text reads "O God, do not be afraid", the second footnote reads "The feminine form indicates the Ka'ba itself is addressed". Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 85 footnote 2. ISBN 9780196360331.
Noah Webster (1841). An American Dictionary of the English Language. BL Hamlen. p. 857.
Stephanie W. Jamison (2011), The Ravenous Hyenas and the Wounded Sun: Myth and Ritual in Ancient India, Cornell University Press, ISBN 978-0801477324, pages 15-17
^ HS Singha (2009), The Encyclopedia of Sikhism, Hemkunt Press, ISBN 978-81-7010-301-1, page 110
Islam strongly prohibits all form of idolatry, which is part of the sin of shirk (Arabic: شرك); širk comes from the Arabic root Š-R-K (ش ر ك), with the general meaning of "to share". In the context of the Qur'an, the particular sense of "sharing as an equal partner" is usually understood as "attributing a partner to Allah". Shirk is often translated as idolatry and polytheism.[99] In the Qur'an, shirk and the related word (plural Stem IV active participle) mušrikūn (مشركون) "those who commit shirk" often refers to the enemies of Islam (as in verse 9.1–15) but sometimes it also refers to erring Muslims.[citation needed]
Within Islam, shirk is sin that can only be forgiven if the person who commits it asks God for forgiveness; if the person who committed it dies without repenting God may forgive any sin except for committing shirk.[citation needed] In practice, especially among strict conservative interpretations of Islam, the term has been greatly extended and means deification of anyone or anything other than the singular God.[citation needed] In Salafi-Wahhabi interpretation, it may be used very widely to describe behaviour that does not literally constitute worship, including use of images of sentient beings, building a structure over a grave, associating partners with God, giving his characteristics to others beside him, or not believing in his characteristics.[citation needed] 19th century Wahhabis regarded idolatry punishable with the death penalty, a practice that was "hitherto unknown" in Islam.[108][109] However, Classical Orthodox Sunni thought used to be rich in Relics and Saint veneration, as well as pilgrimage to their shrines. Ibn Taymiyya, a medieval theologian that influenced modern days Salafists, was put in prison for his negation of veneration of relics and Saints, as well as pilgrimage to Shrines, which was considered unorthodox by his contemporary theologians.
^ Manuel Aguilar-Moreno (2007). Handbook to Life in the Aztec World. Oxford University Press. pp. 24, 203–204. ISBN 978-0-19-533083-0.
^ Mankey, J. (2022). The Witches' Sabbath: An Exploration of History, Folklore & Modern Practice. Llewellyn Worldwide, Limited. p. 24. ISBN 978-0-7387-6717-8. Retrieved 14 March 2023.
King, G. R. D. (1985). "Islam, iconoclasm, and the declaration of doctrine". Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies. 48 (2): 267. doi:10.1017/s0041977x00033346. S2CID 162882785.
A History of Christianity in Asia, Africa, and Latin America, 1450-1990
Arthur P. Urbano (2013). The Philosophical Life. Catholic University of America Press. pp. 212–213 with footnotes 25–26. ISBN 978-0-8132-2162-5.
Christopher Norris (1997). New Idols of the Cave: On the Limits of Anti-realism. Manchester University Press. pp. 106–110. ISBN 978-0-7190-5093-0.
^ Courtney T. Goto (2016). The Grace of Playing: Pedagogies for Leaning into God's New Creation. Wipf and Stock. pp. 67–68. ISBN 978-1-4982-3300-2.
Wendy Doniger (1999). Merriam-Webster's Encyclopedia of World Religions. Merriam-Webster. p. 497. ISBN 978-0-87779-044-0.
The oldest forms of the ancient religions of India apparently made no use of cult images. While the Vedic literature leading up to Hinduism is extensive, in the form of Samhitas, Brahmanas, Aranyakas and Upanishads, and has been dated to have been composed over a period of centuries (1200 BC to 200 BC),[115] historical Vedic religion appears not to have used cult images up to around 500 BC at least.The early Buddhist and Jain (pre-200 BC) traditions suggest no evidence of idolatry. The Vedic literature mentions many gods and goddesses, as well as the use of Homa (votive ritual using fire), but it does not mention images or their worship.[115][116] The ancient Buddhist, Hindu and Jaina texts discuss the nature of existence, whether there is or is not a creator deity such as in the Nasadiya Sukta of the Rigveda, they describe meditation, they recommend the pursuit of simple monastic life and self-knowledge, they debate the nature of absolute reality as Brahman or Śūnyatā, yet the ancient Indian texts mention no use of images. Indologists such as the Max Muller, Jan Gonda, Pandurang Vaman Kane, Ramchandra Narayan Dandekar, Horace Hayman Wilson, Stephanie Jamison and other scholars state that "there is no evidence for icons or images representing god(s)" in the ancient religions of India. Use of cult images developed among the Indian religions later,[115][117] perhaps first in Buddhism, where large images of the Buddha appear by the 1st century AD.
^ a b Ryan K. Smith (2011). Gothic Arches, Latin Crosses: Anti-Catholicism and American Church Designs in the Nineteenth Century. University of North Carolina Press. pp. 79–81. ISBN 978-0-8078-7728-9.
In East Asia and Southeast Asia, worship in Buddhist temples with the aid of icons and sacred objects has been historic.[131] In Japanese Buddhism, for example, Butsugu (sacred objects) have been integral to the worship of the Buddha (kuyo), and such idolatry considered a part of the process of realizing one's Buddha nature. This process is more than meditation, it has traditionally included devotional rituals (butsudo) aided by the Buddhist clergy.[131] These practices are also found in Korea and China.[121][131]
^ a b Régis Bertrand (2003). La Nativité et le temps de Noël: XVIIe-XXe siècle (in French). Publ. de l'Université de Provence. pp. 87–95. ISBN 978-2-85399-552-8.
Richard Cohen (2006). Beyond Enlightenment: Buddhism, Religion, Modernity. Routledge. pp. 83–84. ISBN 978-1-134-19205-2., Quote: Hans Bakker's political history of the Vakataka dynasty observed that Ajanta caves belong to the Buddhist, not the Hindu tradition. That this should be so is already remarkable in itself. By all we know of Harisena he was a Hindu; (...).
Mankey, J. (2022). The Witches' Sabbath: An Exploration of History, Folklore & Modern Practice. Llewellyn Worldwide, Limited. p. 24. ISBN 978-0-7387-6717-8. Retrieved 14 March 2023.
^ a b J. O. Awolalu (1976), What is African Traditional Religion?, Studies in Comparative Religion, Vol. 10, No. 2, pages 8, 1–10
^ Hava Tirosh-Samuelson; Aaron W. Hughes (2015). Arthur Green: Hasidism for Tomorrow. BRILL Academic. p. 231. ISBN 978-90-04-30842-8.
^ J. Gordon Melton; Martin Baumann (2010). Religions of the World. ABC-CLIO. pp. 2243–2244. ISBN 978-1-59884-204-3.
"UBA: Rosenthaliana 1768" [English: 1768: The Ten Commandments, copied in Amsterdam Jekuthiel Sofer] (in Dutch). Retrieved 26 April 2012.
John Cort, Jains in the World : Religious Values and Ideology in India, Oxford University Press, ISBN, pages 64–68, 86–90, 100–112
^ Rees, D. (1976). North Korea, Undermining the Truce. Conflict studies. Institute for the Study of Conflict. ISBN 978-0-903366-43-4. Retrieved 17 February 2023.
Smart, Ninian (10 November 2020) [26 July 1999]. "Polytheism". Encyclopædia Britannica. Edinburgh: Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Archived from the original on 11 November 2020. Retrieved 25 April 2021.
The Incarnate Word: The Collected Works of Bernard Lonergan, Volume 8
Benedict Groschel (2010). I Am with You Always: A Study of the History and Meaning of Personal Devotion to Jesus Christ for Catholic, Orthodox, and Protestant Christians. Ignatius. pp. 58–60. ISBN 978-1-58617-257-2.
Ranger, Terence O. (1986). "Religious Movements and Politics in Sub-Saharan Africa". African Studies Review. 29 (2): 1–70. doi:10.2307/523964. JSTOR 523964. S2CID 143459900.
The history of religions has been marked with accusations and denials of idolatry. These accusations have considered statues and images to be devoid of symbolism. Alternatively, the topic of idolatry has been a source of disagreements between many religions, or within denominations of various religions, with the presumption that icons of one's own religious practices have meaningful symbolism, while another person's different religious practices do not.[19][20]
Idolatry has also been called idolism,[26] iconolatry[27] or idolodulia in historic literature.[28]
^ Fuller, C. J. (2004), The Camphor Flame: Popular Hinduism and Society in India, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, pp. 67–68, ISBN 978-0-691-12048-5
^ a b Pori Park (2012), Devotionalism Reclaimed: Re-mapping Sacred Geography in Contemporary Korean Buddhism, Journal of Korean Religions, Vol. 3, No. 2, pages 153–171
^ Becker, J. (2005). Rogue Regime: Kim Jong Il and the Looming Threat of North Korea. Oxford University Press. p. 182. ISBN 978-0-19-029099-3. Retrieved 17 February 2023.
^ a b c Anthony Milton (2002). Catholic and Reformed: The Roman and Protestant Churches in English Protestant Thought. Cambridge University Press. pp. 186–195. ISBN 978-0-521-89329-9.
C Scott Littleton (2005). Gods, Goddesses, and Mythology. Marshall Cavendish. pp. 797–798. ISBN 978-0-7614-7565-1.
Swagato Ganguly (2017). Idolatry and The Colonial Idea of India: Visions of Horror, Allegories of Enlightenment. Routledge. ISBN 978-1138106161
The idolatry debate has been one of the defining differences between papal Catholicism and anti-papal Protestantism.[92] The anti-papal writers have prominently questioned the worship practices and images supported by Catholics, with many Protestant scholars listing it as the "one religious error larger than all others". The sub-list of erring practices have included among other things the veneration of Virgin Mary, the Catholic mass, the invocation of saints, and the reverence expected for and expressed to pope himself.[92] The charges of supposed idolatry against the Roman Catholics were leveled by a diverse group of Protestants, from Anglicans to Calvinists in Geneva.[92][93]
Allan Andrews (1993), Lay and Monastic Forms of Pure Land Devotionalism: Typology and History, Numen, Vol. 40, No. 1, pages 16–37
W.O. Cole; Piara Singh Sambhi (2016). Sikhism and Christianity: A Comparative Study. Springer. pp. 36–37. ISBN 978-1-349-23049-5.
^ Ranger, Terence O. (1986). "Religious Movements and Politics in Sub-Saharan Africa". African Studies Review. 29 (2): 1–70. doi:10.2307/523964. JSTOR 523964. S2CID 143459900.
S Deol (1998), Japji: The Path of Devotional Meditation, ISBN 978-0-9661027-0-3, page 11
Brant Cortright (2010). Integral Psychology: Yoga, Growth, and Opening the Heart. State University of New York Press. pp. 106–107. ISBN 978-0-7914-8013-7.
^ Steven Hooper (2006). Pacific Encounters: Art & Divinity in Polynesia, 1760–1860. University of Hawaii Press. pp. 27, 65–71. ISBN 978-0-8248-3084-7.
Other people's rituals: Ritual Eclecticism in early medieval Indian religious
Shia classical theology differs in the concept of Shirk. According to Twelver theologians, the attributes and names of God have no independent and hypostatic existence apart from the being and essence of God. Any suggestion of these attributes and names being conceived of as separate is thought to entail polytheism. It would be even incorrect to say God knows by his knowledge which is in his essence but God knows by his knowledge which is his essence. Also God has no physical form and he is insensible.[106] The border between theoretical Tawhid and Shirk is to know that every reality and being in its essence, attributes and action are from him (from Him-ness), it is Tawhid. Every supernatural action of the prophets is by God's permission as Quran points to it. The border between the Tawhid and Shirk in practice is to assume something as an end in itself, independent from God, not as a road to God (to Him-ness).[107] Ismailis go deeper into the definition of Shirk, declaring they don't recognize any sort of ground of being by the esoteric potential to have intuitive knowledge of the human being. Hence, most Shias have no problem with religious symbols and artworks, and with reverence for Walis, Rasūls and Imams.
^ Margarita Simon Guillory (2011), Creating Selves: An Interdisciplinary Exploration of Self and Creativity in African American Religion, PhD Thesis, Awarded by Rice University, Advisor: Anthony Pinn, pages 122–128
The manufacture of images of Jesus, the Virgin Mary and Christian saints, along with prayers directed to these has been widespread among the Catholic faithful.[81]
From the contemplation of images grows delight, from delight faith, from faith steadfast devotion, through such devotion arises that higher understanding (parāvidyā) that is the royal road to moksha. Without the guidance of images, the mind of the devotee may go ashtray and form wrong imaginations. Images dispel false imaginations. (... ) It is in the mind of Rishis (sages), who see and have the power of discerning the essence of all created things of manifested forms. They see their different characters, the divine and the demoniac, the creative and the destructive forces, in their eternal interplay. It is this vision of Rishis, of gigantic drama of cosmic powers in eternal conflict, which the Sthapakas (Silpins, murti and temple artists) drew the subject-matter for their work.
The history of Jewish religious practice has included cult images and figurines made of ivory, terracotta, faience and seals.[19][58] As more material evidence emerged, one proposal has been that Judaism oscillated between idolatry and iconoclasm. However, the dating of the objects and texts suggest that the two theologies and liturgical practices existed simultaneously. The claimed rejection of idolatry because of monotheism found in Jewish literature and therefrom in biblical Christian literature, states Janowitz, has been unreal abstraction and flawed construction of the actual history.[19] The material evidence of images, statues and figurines taken together with the textual description of cherub and "wine standing for blood", for example, suggests that symbolism, making religious images, icon and index has been integral part of Judaism.[19][59][60] Every religion has some objects that represent the divine and stand for something in the mind of the faithful, and Judaism too has had its holy objects and symbols such as the Menorah.[19]
^ Wendy Doniger (1999). Merriam-Webster's Encyclopedia of World Religions. Merriam-Webster. p. 497. ISBN 978-0-87779-044-0.
The creation of idols, their consecration, the inclusion of Jaina layperson in idols and temples of Jainism by the Jaina monks has been a historic practice.[147] However, during the iconoclastic era of Islamic rule, between the 15th and 17th century, a Lonka sect of Jainism emerged that continued pursuing their traditional spirituality but without the Jaina arts, images and idols.[149]
Orellana, Sandra L. (1981), "Idols and Idolatry in Highland Guatemala", Ethnohistory, 28 (2): 157–177, doi:10.2307/481116, JSTOR 481116
^ Niehr, Herbert (1995). "The Rise of YHWH in Judahite and Israelite Religion: Methodological and Religio-Historical Aspects".In Edelman, Diana Vikander (ed.). The Triumph of Elohim: From Yahwisms to Judaisms. Leuven: Peeters Publishers. pp. 45–72. ISBN 978-9053565032. OCLC 33819403.
St. John the Evangelist cited John 1:14, stating that "the Word became flesh" indicates that the invisible God became visible, that God's glory manifested in God's one and only Son as Jesus Christ, and therefore God chose to make the invisible into a visible form, the spiritual incarnated into the material form.[73][74]
William L. Vance (1989). America's Rome: Catholic and contemporary Rome. Yale University Press. pp. 5–8, 12, 17–18. ISBN 978-0-300-04453-9.
Benjamin Keen (1990). The Aztec Image in Western Thought. Rutgers University Press. pp. 239–240. ISBN 978-0-8135-1572-4.
The Catholic defense mentions textual evidence of external acts of honor towards icons, arguing that there are a difference between adoration and veneration and that the veneration shown to icons differs entirely from the adoration of God. Citing the Old Testament, these arguments present examples of forms of "veneration" such as in Genesis 33:3, with the argument that "adoration is one thing, and that which is offered in order to venerate something of great excellence is another". These arguments assert, "the honor given to the image is transferred to its prototype", and that venerating an image of Christ does not terminate at the image itself – the material of the image is not the object of worship – rather it goes beyond the image, to the prototype.[77][76][78]
In Vaishnavism, the building of a temple for the murti is considered an act of devotion, but non-Murti symbolism is also common wherein the aromatic Tulsi plant or Saligrama is an aniconic reminder of the spiritualism in Vishnu.[135] In the Shaivism tradition of Hinduism, Shiva may be represented as a masculine idol, or half-man half woman ardhanarishvara form, in an anicon Linga-Yoni form. The worship rituals associated with the Murti, correspond to ancient cultural practices for a beloved guest, and the Murti is welcomed, taken care of, and then requested to retire.[137][138]
Protestants often accuse Catholics of idolatry, iconolatry, and even paganism; in the Protestant Reformation such language was common to all Protestants. In some cases, such as the Puritan groups denounced all forms of religious objects, regardless of whether it was a statue or scultpure, or image, including the Christian cross.[95] The Waldensians were accused of idolatry by inquisitors.[96]
Kalman Bland (2001).Lawrence Fine (ed.). Judaism in Practice: From the Middle Ages Through the Early Modern Period. Princeton University Press. pp. 290–291. ISBN 978-0-691-05787-3.
W.O. Cole; Piara Singh Sambhi (2016). Sikhism and Christianity: A Comparative Study. Springer. pp. 34–35. ISBN 978-1-349-23049-5.
Stahl, Michael J. (2021). "The "God of Israel" and the Politics of Divinity in Ancient Israel". The "God of Israel" in History and Tradition. Vetus Testamentum: Supplements. Vol. 187. Leiden: Brill Publishers. pp. 52–144. doi:10.1163/9789004447721_003. ISBN 978-90-04-44772-1. S2CID 236752143.
Ibn Ishaq's Sirat Rasul Allah – The Life of Muhammad Translated by A. Guillaume
The Ten Commandments on a monument on the grounds of the Texas State Capitol. The first commandment listed is interpreted as prohibiting idolatry, but the nature of the meaning of idolatry in the Biblical law in Christianity is disputed.
What the Bible Really Tells Us: The Essential Guide to Biblical Literacy
Barbara Johnson (2010). Moses and Multiculturalism. University of California Press. pp. 21–22, 50–51. ISBN 978-0-520-26254-6.
^ Richard Cohen (2006). Beyond Enlightenment: Buddhism, Religion, Modernity. Routledge. pp. 83–84. ISBN 978-1-134-19205-2., Quote: Hans Bakker's political history of the Vakataka dynasty observed that Ajanta caves belong to the Buddhist, not the Hindu tradition. That this should be so is already remarkable in itself. By all we know of Harisena he was a Hindu; (...).
Fabio Rambelli; Eric Reinders (2012). Buddhism and Iconoclasm in East Asia: A History. Bloomsbury Academic. pp. 17–19, 23–24, 89–93. ISBN 978-1-4411-8168-8.
Suresh K. Sharma; Usha Sharma (2004). Cultural and Religious Heritage of India: Jainism. Mittal. pp. 53–54. ISBN 978-81-7099-957-7.
Catechism of the Catholic Church - Paragraph # 2132. Retrieved 26 May 2021.
^ a b Smith, Mark S. (2003). "El, Yahweh, and the Original God of Israel and the Exodus". The Origins of Biblical Monotheism: Israel's Polytheistic Background and the Ugaritic Texts. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 133–148. doi:10.1093/019513480X.003.0008. ISBN 9780195134803.
According to J.O. Awolalu, proselytizing Christians and Muslims have mislabelled idol to mean false god, when in the reality of most traditions of Africa, the object may be a piece of wood or iron or stone, yet it is "symbolic, an emblem and implies the spiritual idea which is worshipped".[181] The material objects may decay or get destroyed, the emblem may crumble or substituted, but the spiritual idea that it represents to the heart and mind of an African traditionalist remains unchanged.[181] Sylvester Johnson – a professor of African American and Religious Studies, concurs with Awolalu, and states that the colonial era missionaries who arrived in Africa, neither understood the regional languages nor the African theology, and interpreted the images and ritualism as "epitome of idolatry", projecting the iconoclastic controversies in Europe they grew up with, onto Africa.[182]
^ Willis, John Ralph (1967). "Jihād fī Sabīl Allāh—its Doctrinal Basis in Islam and some Aspects of its Evolution in Nineteenth-Century West Africa". The Journal of African History. 8 (3): 395. doi:10.1017/s0021853700007933. S2CID 154388861.
Trudy Ring; Noelle Watson; Paul Schellinger (2012). Asia and Oceania: International Dictionary of Historic Places. Routledge. p. 256. ISBN 978-1-136-63979-1., Quote: "Some had been desecrated by zealous Muslims during their occupation of Maharashtra in the fifteenth, sixteenth and seventeenth centuries."
^ a b Douglas Q. Adams (1997). Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture. Routledge. pp. 44, 125–133, 544–545. ISBN 978-1-884964-98-5.
The Polynesian people have had a range of polytheistic theologies found across the Pacific Ocean. The Polynesian people produced idols from wood, and congregated around these idols for worship.[207][208]
^ iconolatry, Merriam Webster;Elmar Waibl (1997). Dictionary of philosophical terms. Walter de Gruyter. pp. 42 see Bilderverehrung. ISBN 978-3-11-097454-6.
War Against the Idols: The Reformation of Worship from Erasmus to Calvin
^ Ulrich Broich; Theo Stemmler; Gerd Stratmann (1984). Functions of Literature. Niemeyer. pp. 120–121. ISBN 978-3-484-40106-8.
^ W. Owen Cole and Piara Singh Sambhi (1997), A Popular Dictionary of Sikhism: Sikh Religion and Philosophy, Routledge, ISBN 978-0700710485, page 22
C Scott Littleton (2005). Gods, Goddesses, and Mythology. Marshall Cavendish. pp. 843–844. ISBN 978-0-7614-7565-1.
^ Naidoo, Thillayvel (1982). The Arya Samaj Movement in South Africa. Motilal Banarsidass. p. 158. ISBN 978-81-208-0769-3.
The Christian veneration of images is not contrary to the first commandment which proscribes idols. Indeed, "the honor rendered to an image passes to its prototype," and "whoever venerates an image venerates the person portrayed in it." The honor paid to sacred images is a "respectful veneration," not the adoration due to God alone:
^ Robert W. Williamson (2013). Religion and Social Organization in Central Polynesia. Cambridge University Press. pp. 5–6. ISBN 978-1-107-62569-3.
^ Although the Semitic god El is indeed the most ancient predecessor to the Abrahamic god,[213][214][217][218] this specifically refers to the ancient ideas Yahweh once encompassed in the Ancient Hebrew religion, such as being a storm- and war-god, living on mountains, or controlling the weather.[213][214][217][218][219] Thus, in this page's context, "Yahweh" is used to refer to God as conceived in the Ancient Hebrew religion, and should not be referenced when describing his later worship in today's Abrahamic religions.
Yechezkel Kaufmann (1960). The Religion of Israel: From its Beginnings to the Babylonin Exile. Univ. of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0805203646.
^ Frank L. Kidner; Maria Bucur; Ralph Mathisen;et al. (2007). Making Europe: People, Politics, and Culture, Volume I: To 1790. Cengage. p. 40. ISBN 978-0-618-00480-5.
^ Noah Webster (1841). An American Dictionary of the English Language. BL Hamlen. p. 857.
^ W.O. Cole; Piara Singh Sambhi (2016). Sikhism and Christianity: A Comparative Study. Springer. pp. 34–35. ISBN 978-1-349-23049-5.
For instance, the phrase false god is a derogatory term used in Abrahamic religions to indicate cult images or deities of non-Abrahamic Pagan religions, as well as other competing entities or objects to which particular importance is attributed.[7] Conversely, followers of animistic and polytheistic religions may regard the gods of various monotheistic religions as "false gods" because they do not believe that any real deity possesses the properties ascribed by monotheists to their sole deity. Atheists, who do not believe in any deities, do not usually use the term false god even though that would encompass all deities from the atheist viewpoint. Usage of this term is generally limited to theists, who choose to worship some deity or deities, but not others.[4]
^ Arthur P. Urbano (2013). The Philosophical Life. Catholic University of America Press. pp. 212–213 with footnotes 25–26. ISBN 978-0-8132-2162-5.
First with the arrival of Islam in Africa, then during the Christian colonial efforts, the religiously justified wars, the colonial portrayal of idolatry as proof of savagery, the destruction of idols and the seizure of idolaters as slaves marked a long period of religious intolerance, which supported religious violence and demeaning caricature of the African Traditional Religionists.[183][184][185] The violence against idolaters and idolatry of Traditional Religion practicers of Africa started in the medieval era and continued into the modern era.[186][187][188] The charge of idolatry by proselytizers, state Michael Wayne Cole and Rebecca Zorach, served to demonize and dehumanize local African populations, and justify their enslavement and abuse locally or far off plantations, settlements or for forced domestic labor.[189][190]
^ Simon Ross Valentine (2014). Force and Fanaticism: Wahhabism in Saudi Arabia and Beyond. Oxford University Press. pp. 47–48. ISBN 978-1-84904-464-6., Quote: "In reference to Wahhabi strictness in applying their moral code, Corancez writes that the distinguishing feature of the Wahhabis was their intolerance, which they pursued to hitherto unknown extremes, holding idolatry as a crime punishable by death".
^ Gruber, Mayer I. (2013). "Israel".In Spaeth, Barbette Stanley (ed.). The Cambridge Companion to Ancient Mediterranean Religions. New York: Cambridge University Press. pp. 76–94. doi:10.1017/CCO9781139047784.007. ISBN 978-0-521-11396-0. LCCN 2012049271.
Karen Armstrong (2002). Islam: A Short History. p. 11. ISBN 978-0-8129-6618-3.
Yeo, A.; Chubb, D. (2018). North Korean Human Rights: Activists and Networks. Cambridge University Press. p. 262. ISBN 978-1-108-69284-7. Retrieved 17 February 2023.
^ Thomas W. L. Jones (1898). The Queen of Heaven: Màmma Schiavona (the Black Mother), the Madonna of the Pignasecea: a Delineation of the Great Idolatry. pp. 1–2.
^ René A. Bravmann (1980). Islam and Tribal Art in West Africa. Cambridge University Press. pp. 15–21, 36–37. ISBN 978-0-521-29791-2.
Siebert, Donald T. (1984), "Hume on Idolatry and Incarnation", Journal of the History of Ideas, 45 (3): 379–396, doi:10.2307/2709231, JSTOR 2709231
^ Frank K. Flinn (2007). Encyclopedia of Catholicism. Infobase. pp. 358–359. ISBN 978-0-8160-7565-2.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Moshe Halbertal; Avishai Margalit; Naomi Goldblum (1992). Idolatry. Harvard University Press. pp. 1–8, 85–86, 146–148. ISBN 978-0-674-44313-6.
In Islamic sources, the concept of shirk (triliteral root: sh-r-k) can refer to "idolatry", though it is most widely used to denote "association of partners with God".[99] The concept of Kufr (k-f-r) can also include idolatry (among other forms of disbelief).[100][101] The one who practices shirk is called mushrik (plural mushrikun) in the Islamic scriptures.[102] The Quran forbids idolatry.[102] Over 500 mentions of kufr and shirk are found in the Quran,[100][103] and both concepts are strongly forbidden.[99]
Saint John (of Damascus) (1898). St. John Damascene on Holy Images: (pros Tous Diaballontas Tas Agias Eikonas). T. Baker. pp. 5–6, 12–17.
Stephen Gero (1973). Byzantine Iconoclasm During the Reign of Leo III: With Particular Attention to the Oriental Sources. Corpus scriptorum Christianorum Orientalium: Subsidia. pp. 1–7, 44–45. ISBN 9789042903876.
^ Karen Pechelis (2011), The Bloomsbury Companion to Hindu Studies (Editor: Jessica Frazier), Bloomsbury, ISBN 978-1472511515, pages 109–112
Bosworth, C. E.; van Donzel, E. J.; Heinrichs, W. P.; Lewis, B.; Pellat, Ch.; Schacht, J., eds. (1971). "Idol, Idolatry". Encyclopaedia of Islam, Second Edition. Vol. 3. Leiden: Brill Publishers. doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_DUM_1900. ISBN 978-90-04-16121-4.
A murti in Hinduism, states Jeaneane Fowler – a professor of Religious Studies specializing on Indian Religions, is itself not god, it is an "image of god" and thus a symbol and representation.[8] A Murti is a form and manifestation, states Fowler, of the formless Absolute.[8] Thus a literal translation of Murti as idol is incorrect, when idol is understood as superstitious end in itself. Just like the photograph of a person is not the real person, a Murti is an image in Hinduism but not the real thing, but in both cases the image reminds of something of emotional and real value to the viewer.[8] When a person worships a Murti, it is assumed to be a manifestation of the essence or spirit of the deity, the worshipper's spiritual ideas and needs are meditated through it, yet the idea of ultimate reality – called Brahman in Hinduism – is not confined in it.[8]
This page was last edited on 14 March 2023, at 03:56 (UTC).
S. Diamant (1974), A Prehistoric Figurine from Mycenae, The Annual of the British School at Athens, Vol. 69 (1974), pages 103–107
In many Indian religions, which include both theistic and non-theistic branches of Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism, idols (murti) are considered as symbolism for the absolute but not the Absolute,[8] or icons of spiritual ideas,[8][9] or the embodiment of the divine.[10] It is a means to focus one's religious pursuits and worship (bhakti).[8][11][9] In the traditional religions of Ancient Egypt, Greece, Rome, Africa, Asia, the Americas and elsewhere, the reverence of cult images or statues has been a common practice since antiquity, and cult images have carried different meanings and significance in the history of religion.[7][1][12] Moreover, the material depiction of a deity or more deities has always played an eminent role in all cultures of the world.[7]
^ Patricia Crone (1980), Islam, Judeo-Christianity and Byzantine Iconoclasm, Jerusalem Studies in Arabic and Islam, Volume 2, pages 59–95
^ S Deol (1998), Japji: The Path of Devotional Meditation, ISBN 978-0-9661027-0-3, page 11
Francois Soyer (2012). Ambiguous Gender in Early Modern Spain and Portugal: Inquisitors, Doctors and the Transgression of Gender Norms. BRILL Academic. pp. 212–213. ISBN 978-90-04-23278-5.;Avessadas and the Infant Jesus of Prague Archived 25 July 2018 at the Wayback Machine Portugal
^ Horst Woldemar Janson; Anthony F. Janson (2003). History of Art: The Western Tradition. Prentice Hall. p. 386. ISBN 978-0-13-182895-7.
Moshe Halbertal; Donniel Hartman (2007). Monotheism and Violence. Vol. Judaism and the Challenges of Modern Life. Bloomsbury Academic. pp. 105–112. ISBN 978-0-8264-9668-3.
^ a b Karen Armstrong (2002). Islam: A Short History. p. 11. ISBN 978-0-8129-6618-3.
Reinhardt, Steven G. (2008). "Review: La Nativité et le temps de Noël, XVIIe-XXe siècle". The Catholic Historical Review. 94 (1): 147–149. doi:10.1353/cat.2008.0002. S2CID 159896901.
^ Benjamin Keen (1990). The Aztec Image in Western Thought. Rutgers University Press. pp. 239–240. ISBN 978-0-8135-1572-4.
Klaus Koschorke; Frieder Ludwig; Mariano Delgado (2007). A History of Christianity in Asia, Africa, and Latin America, 1450-1990. Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. pp. 323–325. ISBN 978-0-8028-2889-7.
^ Gary Waller (2013). Walsingham and the English Imagination. Ashgate. p. 153. ISBN 978-1-4094-7860-7.
John Cort (2010). Framing the Jina: Narratives of Icons and Idols in Jain History. Oxford University Press. pp. 3, 8–12, 45–46, 219–228, 234–236. ISBN 978-0-19-045257-5.
^ a b c Noel Salmond (2006). Hindu Iconoclasts: Rammohun Roy, Dayananda Sarasvati, and Nineteenth-Century Polemics against Idolatry. Wilfrid Laurier University Press. pp. 15–17. ISBN 978-1-55458-128-3.
Although the Greek appears to be a loan translation of the Hebrew phrase avodat elilim, (עבודת אלילים) which is attested in rabbinic literature (e.g., bChul., 13b, Bar.), the Greek term itself is not found in the Septuagint, Philo, Josephus, or in other Hellenistic Jewish writings.[citation needed] The original term used in early rabbinic writings is oved avodah zarah (AAZ, worship in strange service, or "pagan"), while avodat kochavim umazalot (AKUM, worship of planets and constellations) is not found in its early manuscripts.[24] The later Jews used the term .mw-parser-output .script-hebrew,.mw-parser-output .script-Hebr{font-family:"SBL Hebrew","SBL BibLit","Taamey Ashkenaz","Taamey Frank CLM","Frank Ruehl CLM","Ezra SIL","Ezra SIL SR","Keter Aram Tsova","Taamey David CLM","Keter YG","Shofar","David CLM","Hadasim CLM","Simple CLM","Nachlieli",Cardo,Alef,"Noto Serif Hebrew","Noto Sans Hebrew","David Libre",David,"Times New Roman",Gisha,Arial,FreeSerif,FreeSans}עֲבוֹדָה זָרָה‎, avodah zarah, meaning "foreign worship".[25]
J. Gordon Melton; Martin Baumann (2010). Religions of the World. ABC-CLIO. pp. 2243–2244. ISBN 978-1-59884-204-3.
^ Klaus Klostermaier (2010), A Survey of Hinduism, State University of New York Press, ISBN 978-0-7914-7082-4, pages 264–267
Hava Tirosh-Samuelson; Aaron W. Hughes (2015). Arthur Green: Hasidism for Tomorrow. BRILL Academic. p. 231. ISBN 978-90-04-30842-8.
Boria Sax (2001). The Mythical Zoo: An Encyclopedia of Animals in World Myth, Legend, and Literature. ABC-CLIO. pp. 48–49. ISBN 978-1-57607-612-5.
^ a b c Barbara Johnson (2010). Moses and Multiculturalism. University of California Press. pp. 50–52. ISBN 978-0-520-26254-6.
Stern, Sacha (1994). Jewish Identity in Early Rabbinic Writings. BRILL. p. 9 with footnotes 47–48. ISBN 978-9004100121. Retrieved 18 October 2013.
Making Europe: People, Politics, and Culture, Volume I: To 1790
England warned and counselled; 4 lectures on popery and tractarianism
^ Henry Ede Eze (2011). Images in Catholicism ...idolatry?: Discourse on the First Commandment With Biblical Citations. St. Paul Press. pp. 11–14. ISBN 978-0-9827966-9-6.
He, K.; Feng, H. (2013). Prospect Theory and Foreign Policy Analysis in the Asia Pacific: Rational Leaders and Risky Behavior. Foreign Policy Analysis. Taylor & Francis. p. 62. ISBN 978-1-135-13119-7. Retrieved 12 February 2023.
St. John Damascene on Holy Images: (pros Tous Diaballontas Tas Agias Eikonas)
"The Rise of YHWH in Judahite and Israelite Religion: Methodological and Religio-Historical Aspects"
The Grace of Playing: Pedagogies for Leaning into God's New Creation
^ King, G. R. D. (1985). "Islam, iconoclasm, and the declaration of doctrine". Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies. 48 (2): 267. doi:10.1017/s0041977x00033346. S2CID 162882785.
HS Singha (2009), The Encyclopedia of Sikhism, Hemkunt Press, ISBN 978-81-7010-301-1, page 110
^ Richard Gehman (2005). African Traditional Religion in Biblical Perspective. East African Publishers. pp. xi–xii. ISBN 978-9966-25-354-5.
Becker, J. (2005). Rogue Regime: Kim Jong Il and the Looming Threat of North Korea. Oxford University Press. p. 182. ISBN 978-0-19-029099-3. Retrieved 17 February 2023.
^ a b Lindsay Jones, ed. (2005). Gale Encyclopedia of Religion. Vol. 11. Thompson Gale. pp. 7493–7495. ISBN 978-0-02-865980-0.
^ Mahinder Gulati (2008), Comparative Religious And Philosophies : Anthropomorphism And Divinity, Atlantic, ISBN 978-8126909025, page 305
Rev. Robert William Dibdin (1851). England warned and counselled; 4 lectures on popery and tractarianism. James Nisbet. p. 20.
^ a b c d Frohn, Elke Sophie; Lützenkirchen, H.-Georg (2007). "Idol".In von Stuckrad, Kocku (ed.). The Brill Dictionary of Religion. Leiden and Boston: Brill Publishers. doi:10.1163/1872-5287_bdr_SIM_00041. ISBN 9789004124332. S2CID 240180055.
Barbara Roggema (2009). The Legend of Sergius Bahira: Eastern Christian Apologetics and Apocalyptic in Response to Islam. BRILL Academic. pp. 204–205. ISBN 978-90-04-16730-8.
Douglas Q. Adams (1997). Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture. Routledge. pp. 44, 125–133, 544–545. ISBN 978-1-884964-98-5.
Bronze snake (formerly believed to be the one set up by Moses), in the main nave of Sant'Ambrogio basilica in Milan, Italy, a gift from Byzantine emperor Basil II (1007). It stands on an Ancient Roman granite pillar. Picture by Giovanni Dall'Orto, 25 April 2007.
^ André Wink (1997). Al-Hind the Making of the Indo-Islamic World. BRILL Academic. pp. 317–324. ISBN 978-90-04-10236-1.
In Hinduism, an icon, image or statue is called Murti or Pratima.[8][132] Major Hindu traditions such as Vaishnavism, Shaivism, Shaktism and Smartaism favor the use of Murti (idol). These traditions suggest that it is easier to dedicate time and focus on spirituality through anthropomorphic or non-anthropomorphic icons. The Bhagavad Gita – a Hindu scripture, in verse 12.5, states that only a few have the time and mind to ponder and fix on the unmanifested Absolute (abstract formless Brahman), and it is much easier to focus on qualities, virtues, aspects of a manifested representation of god, through one's senses, emotions and heart, because the way human beings naturally are.[133][134]
^ a b C Scott Littleton (2005). Gods, Goddesses, and Mythology. Marshall Cavendish. pp. 843–844. ISBN 978-0-7614-7565-1.
^ William L. Vance (1989). America's Rome: Catholic and contemporary Rome. Yale University Press. pp. 5–8, 12, 17–18. ISBN 978-0-300-04453-9.
Eric Reinders (2005).Francesco Pellizzi (ed.). Anthropology and Aesthetics, Volume 48: Autumn 2005. Harvard University Press. pp. 61–63. ISBN 978-0-87365-766-2.
^ Karel Werner (1995), Love Divine: Studies in Bhakti and Devotional Mysticism, Routledge, ISBN 978-0700702350, pages 45–46
The Islamic concept of idolatry extends beyond polytheism, and includes some Christians and Jews as muširkūn (idolaters) and kafirun (infidels).[104][105] For example:
Paul Dundas (2002). The Jains, 2nd Edition. Routledge. pp. 39–40, 48–53. ISBN 978-0-415-26606-2.
James Noyes (2013). The Politics of Iconoclasm: Religion, Violence and the Culture of Image-Breaking in Christianity and Islam. Tauris. pp. 31–37. ISBN 978-0-85772-288-1.
^ Richard Payne (2015).Michael Witzel (ed.). Homa Variations: The Study of Ritual Change Across the Longue Durée. Oxford University Press. pp. 1–5, 143–148. ISBN 978-0-19-935158-9.; Phyllis Granoff (2000), Other people's rituals: Ritual Eclecticism in early medieval Indian religious, Journal of Indian Philosophy, Volume 28, Issue 4, pages 399–424
The Eastern Orthodox Church has differentiated between latria and dulia. A latria is the worship due God, and latria to anyone or anything other than God is doctrinally forbidden by the Orthodox Church; however dulia has been defined as veneration of religious images, statues or icons which is not only allowed but obligatory.[82] This distinction was discussed by Thomas Aquinas in section 3.25 of Summa Theologiae.[83]
Ethnoarchaeology of Andean South America: Contributions to Archaeological Method and Theory
Such idol caring practices are found in other religions. For example, the Infant Jesus of Prague is venerated in many countries of the Catholic world. In the Prague Church it is housed, it is ritually cared for, cleaned and dressed by the sisters of the Carmelites Church, changing the Infant Jesus' clothing to one of the approximately hundred costumes donated by the faithfuls as gift of devotion.[163][164] The idol is worshipped with the faithful believing that it renders favors to those who pray to it.[164][165][166] Such ritualistic caring of the image of baby Jesus is found in other churches and homes in Central Europe and Portugual / Spain influenced Christian communities with different names, such as Menino Deus.[165][167][168]
^ a b Michael Wayne Cole; Rebecca Zorach (2009). The Idol in the Age of Art: Objects, Devotions and the Early Modern World. Ashgate. pp. 77–81. ISBN 978-0-7546-5290-8.
^ Reinhardt, Steven G. (2008). "Review: La Nativité et le temps de Noël, XVIIe-XXe siècle". The Catholic Historical Review. 94 (1): 147–149. doi:10.1353/cat.2008.0002. S2CID 159896901.
J Mezies (1841). Abolition of Idolatry in Polynesia. Vol. XXIV (The Journal of civilization ed.). Society for the Advancement of Civilization. pp. 370–373.
Geri Hockfield Malandra (1993). Unfolding A Mandala: The Buddhist Cave Temples at Ellora. State University of New York Press. pp. 1–4. ISBN 978-0-7914-1355-5.
Steven Hooper (2006). Pacific Encounters: Art & Divinity in Polynesia, 1760–1860. University of Hawaii Press. pp. 27, 65–71. ISBN 978-0-8248-3084-7.
^ Timothy Insoll (2002). Archaeology and World Religion. Routledge. pp. 112–113. ISBN 978-1-134-59798-7.
^ a b Ambrosios Giakalis (2005). Images of the Divine: The Theology of Icons at the Seventh Ecumenical Council. Brill Academic. pp. viii–ix, 1–3. ISBN 978-90-04-14328-9.
^ a b David Lorenzen (1995), Bhakti Religion in North India: Community Identity and Political Action, State University of New York Press, ISBN 978-0791420256, pages 1–3
Floru, JP (2017). The Sun Tyrant: A Nightmare Called North Korea. Biteback Publishing. p. 7. ISBN 978-1-78590-288-8. Retrieved 13 February 2023.
JÜRGEN THIMME (1965), DIE RELIGIÖSE BEDEUTUNG DER KYKLADENIDOLE, Antike Kunst, 8. Jahrg., H. 2. (1965), pages 72–86 (in German)
Donald Swearer (2003), Buddhism in the Modern World: Adaptations of an Ancient Tradition (Editors: Heine and Prebish), Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0195146981, pages 9–25
Kim Il-Sung instituted worship of himself amongst the citizens and it is considered the only modern country to deify its ruler.[173][174][175] As many citizens frequently bow before statues and portraits of him, scholars have considered it to be a form of idolatry.[176][177][178]
John F. Richards (1995). The Mughal Empire. Cambridge University Press. p. 178. ISBN 978-0-521-56603-2.
^ Richard G. Lesure (2011). Interpreting Ancient Figurines: Context, Comparison, and Prehistoric Art. Cambridge University Press. pp. 11–12. ISBN 978-1-139-49615-5.
^ Francois Soyer (2012). Ambiguous Gender in Early Modern Spain and Portugal: Inquisitors, Doctors and the Transgression of Gender Norms. BRILL Academic. pp. 212–213. ISBN 978-90-04-23278-5.;Avessadas and the Infant Jesus of Prague Archived 25 July 2018 at the Wayback Machine Portugal
Many Jewish scholars such as Rabbi Saadia Gaon, Rabbi Bahya ibn Paquda, and Rabbi Yehuda Halevi have elaborated on the issues of idolatry. One of the oft-cited discussions is the commentary of Rabbi Moshe ben Maimon (Maimonides) on idolatry.[51] According to the Maimonidean interpretation, idolatry in itself is not a fundamental sin, but the grave sin is the denial of God's omnipresence that occurs with the belief that God can be corporeal. In the Jewish belief, the only image of God is man, one who lives and thinks; God has no visible shape, and it is absurd to make or worship images; instead man must worship the invisible God alone.[51][52]
Marc Gopin (2002). Holy War, Holy Peace. Oxford University Press. pp. 243 footnote 5. ISBN 978-0-19-803348-6.
^ Brant Cortright (2010). Integral Psychology: Yoga, Growth, and Opening the Heart. State University of New York Press. pp. 106–107. ISBN 978-0-7914-8013-7.
Alice Boner, Sadāśiva Rath Śarmā and Bettina Bäumer (2000), Vāstusūtra Upaniṣad, Motilal Banarsidass, ISBN 978-81-208-0090-8, page 9
^ Klaus Koschorke; Frieder Ludwig; Mariano Delgado (2007). A History of Christianity in Asia, Africa, and Latin America, 1450-1990. Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. pp. 323–325. ISBN 978-0-8028-2889-7.
^ a b Karel Werner (1995), Love Divine: Studies in Bhakti and Devotional Mysticism, Routledge, ISBN 978-0700702350, pages 45-46;John Cort (2011), Jains in the World, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-979664-9, pages 80–85
On the Causes of Plants was originally eight books, of which six survive. It concerns the growth of plants; the influences on their fecundity; the proper times they should be sown and reaped; the methods of preparing the soil, manuring it, and the use of tools; and of the smells, tastes, and properties of many types of plants.[45] The work deals mainly with the economical uses of plants rather than their medicinal uses, although the latter is sometimes mentioned.[45] A book on wines and a book on plant smells may have once been part of the complete work.[46]
Gavin Hardy and Laurence Totelin, Ancient Botany, 2015, p. 10.
^ Cicero, Tusculanae Quaestiones, iii. 10; comp. Alexander of Aphrodisias, de Anima, ii.
9.1. Sources On Music (Texts 714-726C), by Massimo Raffa (2018).
"Ancient Logic: Forerunners of Modus Ponens and Modus Tollens". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
Theophrastus describes different marbles; mentions coal, which he says is used for heating by metal-workers; describes the various metal ores; and knew that pumice stones had a volcanic origin. He also deals with precious stones, emeralds, amethysts, onyx, jasper, etc., and describes a variety of "sapphire" that was blue with veins of gold, and thus was presumably lapis lazuli.[51]
Theophrastus (1956) [315 BC]. Theophrastus On Stones: Introduction, Greek text, English translation, and Commentary (PDF). Translated by Richards, John F.; Caley, Earle Radcliffe. Columbus, Ohio: Ohio State University. p. 238. hdl:1811/32541.
Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Anal. Pr. 39, b. etc. 40, 42, 56, b. 82, 64, b. 51; John Phil. xxxii, b. etc.
Laërtius 1925, § 37; comp. Aelian, Varia Historia, iv. 19.
^ Earle R. Caley and John F.C. Richards, Theophrastus: On Stones (Columbus, Ohio: Ohio State University, 1956), page 51, paragraph 28 of the original text: "It [smaragdos] is remarkable in its powers, and so is the lyngourion [i.e., lynx-urine stone] … . It has the power of attraction, just as amber has, and some say that it not only attracts straws and bits of wood, but also copper and iron, if the pieces are thin, as Diokles used to explain."
Earle R. Caley and John F.C. Richards, Theophrastus: On Stones (Columbus, Ohio: Ohio State University, 1956), page 110, line 12 of the commentary: "Watson identifies the lyngounon of Theophrastus with tourmaline, but evidently his opinion is partly based on the attractive properties of heated tourmaline which had recently been discovered. This identification is repeated by various later writers. For example, Dana states that lyncurium is supposed to be the ancient name for common tourmaline. However, the absence of tourmaline among surviving examples of ancient gems is clearly against this view."
8. Sources on Rhetoric and Poetics (Texts 666–713), by William W. Fortenbaugh (2005); with contributions on the Arabic material by Dimitri Gutas.
^ Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Anal. Pr. f. 12. 6; Schol. in Arist. 149. 44.
^ "Since 'unknown portraits' were not valued highly, identifying inscriptions were often added to classical portraits by antiquaries and collectors before modern scholarship condemned the practice", notes Eugene Dwyer.[92]
4. Psychology (Texts 265–327), by Pamela Huby (1999); with contributions on the Arabic material by Dimitri Gutas.
Translated by J. Rusten, 2003. Loeb Classical Library. ISBN 0-674-99603-8
^ Simplicius, in Categ.; comp. Simplicius, in Phys. 94, 201, 202, 1.
Healy, John F. (1999). Pliny the Elder on Science and Technology. Oxford University Press. pp. 17–7.[full citation needed]
It was carefully copied in a printing at Basel, 1541.[citation needed]
Many of his surviving works exist only in fragmentary form. "The style of these works, as of the botanical books, suggests that, as in the case of Aristotle, what we possess consists of notes for lectures or notes taken of lectures," his translator Arthur F. Hort remarks.[6] "There is no literary charm; the sentences are mostly compressed and highly elliptical, to the point sometimes of obscurity".[6] The text of these fragments and extracts is often so corrupt that there is a certain plausibility to the well-known story that the works of Aristotle and Theophrastus were allowed to languish in the cellar of Neleus of Scepsis and his descendants.[44]
"Peripatetic Logic: The Work of Eudemus of Rhodes and Theophrastus of Eresus".
The International Theophrastus Project started by Brill Publishers in 1992.
Please improve this article by adding secondary or tertiary sources. Find sources: "Theophrastus" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Find sources: "Theophrastus" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
9.2. Sources on Discoveries and Beginnings, Proverbs et al. (Texts 727–741), by William W. Fortenbaugh (2014).
to the reports of Alexander's followers he owed his accounts of such plants as the cotton-plant, banyan, pepper, cinnamon, myrrh, and frankincense.[6]
Theophrastus On Stones: Introduction, Greek text, English translation, and Commentary
Theophrastus (January 1956). Theophrastus on stones. Translated by Caley, Earle Radcliffe. Ohio State University. ISBN 978-0-8142-0033-9.
With regard to the view that all things are for the sake of an end and nothing is in vain, the assignation of ends is in general not easy, as it is usually stated to be ... we must set certain limits to purposiveness and to the effort after the best, and not assert it to exist in all cases without qualification.
Witztum, A.; Negbi, M. (1991). "Primary Xylem of Scilla hyacinthoides (Liliaceae): The Wool-Bearing Bulb of Theophrastus". Economic Botany. 45 (1): 97–102. doi:10.1007/BF02860053. JSTOR 4255312. S2CID 35267741.
Laërtius 1925, § 44; Cicero, Tusculanae Quaestiones, iii. 10; Alexander of Aphrodisius, de Anima, ii.
Dimitri Gutas (ed.), Theophrastus – On First Principles: known as His Metaphysics, Brill, 2010, p. 10.
^ Laërtius 1925, § 37; comp. Aelian, Varia Historia, iv. 19.
^ Dwyer 1993, p. [page needed] notes Statius pl. xiii; Galle pl. 143; Bellori pl. 38; Gronovius, vol. II p. 92; Visconti, 180–3 pl. xxi, 1–2.
Recherches sur les plantes. Translated to French by Suzanne Amigues. Paris, Les Belles Lettres. 1988–2006. 5 tomes. Tome 1, Livres I-II. 1988. LVIII-146 p. Tome II, Livres III-IV. 1989. 306 p. Tome III, Livres V-VI. 1993. 212 p. Tome IV, Livres VII-VIII, 2003. 238 p. Tome V, Livres IX. 2006. LXX-400 p. First edition in French. Identifications are up-to-date, and carefully checked with botanists. Greek names with identifications are on Pl@ntUse.
This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William, ed. (1870). "Theophrastus". Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology. Vol. 3.
On Characters (in Greek)Translated by R. C. Jebb, 1870.Translated by J. M. Edmonds, 1929, with parallel text.Translated by J. Rusten, 2003. Loeb Classical Library. ISBN 0-674-99603-8
^ a b c d e f Long 1842, pp. 332–224
Theophrastus's Enquiry into Plants was first published in a Latin translation by Theodore Gaza, at Treviso, 1483;[e] in its original Greek it first appeared from the press of Aldus Manutius at Venice, 1495–98, from a third-rate manuscript, which, like the majority of the manuscripts that were sent to printers' workshops in the fifteenth and sixteenth century, has disappeared.[f] Christian Wimmer identified two manuscripts of first quality, the Codex Urbinas in the Vatican Library, which was not made known to J. G. Schneider, who made the first modern critical edition, 1818–21, and the excerpts in the Codex Parisiensis in the Bibliothèque nationale de France.
Baltussen, H. 2016. The Peripatetics: Aristotle's Heirs 322 BCE–200 CE. London: Routledge.
Dorandi, Tiziano (1999). "Chapter 2: Chronology".In Algra, Keimpe;et al. (eds.). The Cambridge History of Hellenistic Philosophy. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 52–53. ISBN 978-0-521-25028-3.
2. Logic [Texts 68–136], by Pamela Huby (2007); with contributions on the Arabic material by Dimitri Gutas.
Mejer, J. 1998. "A Life in Fragments: The Vita Theophrasti." In Theophrastus: Reappraising the Sources. Edited by J. van Ophuijsen and M. van Raalte, 1–28. Rutgers University Studies in Classical Humanities 8. New Brunswick, NJ, and London: Transaction Books.
Laërtius, Diogenes (1925). "The Peripatetics: Theophrastus" . Lives of the Eminent Philosophers. Vol. 1:5. Translated by Hicks, Robert Drew (Two volume ed.). Loeb Classical Library. § 36–50.
Theodor Geisel used the name "Theophrastus" as the given name of his pen-name alter ego, Dr. Seuss.[96]
Ammonius, in Arist. de Interpr. 128; Schol. in Arist. 121. 18.
From the lists of Diogenes, giving 227 titles, it appears that the activity of Theophrastus extended over the whole field of contemporary knowledge. His writing probably differed little from Aristotle's treatment of the same themes, though supplementary in details. Like Aristotle, most of his writings are lost works.[12] Thus Theophrastus, like Aristotle, had composed a first and second Analytic (Ἀναλυτικῶν προτέρων and Ἀναλυτικῶν ὑστέρων).[20] He had also written books on Topics (Ἀνηγμένων τόπων, Τοπικῶν and Τὰ πρὸ τῶν τόπων);[21] on the Analysis of Syllogisms (Περὶ ἀναλύσεως συλλογισμῶν and Περὶ συλλογισμῶν λύσεως), on Sophisms (Σοφισμάτων) and on Affirmation and Denial (Περὶ καταφάσεως καὶ ἀποφάσεως)[22] as well as on the Natural Philosophy (Περὶ φύσεως, Περὶ φυσικῶν, Φυσικῶν and others), on Heaven (Περὶ οὐρανοῦ), and on Meteorological Phenomena (Τῆς μεταρσιολεσχίας and Μεταρσιολογικῶν).[23]
Matthew Hall, Plants as Persons: A Philosophical Botany, p. 28.
Aristotle in his will made him guardian of his children, including Nicomachus, with whom he was close.[b] Aristotle likewise bequeathed to him his library and the originals of his works,[c] and designated him as his successor at the Lyceum.[11] Eudemus of Rhodes also had some claims to this position, and Aristoxenus is said to have resented Aristotle's choice.[12]
On Weather Signs.Translated by J. G. Wood, G. J. Symons, 1894.Edited by Sider David and Brunschön Carl Wolfram. Brill 2007.
^ Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Arist. Anal. Pr. 109, b. etc. 131, b.; John Phil. lx. etc. lxxv.; Boethius, de Syll. hypoth.
Theodore Gaza, a refugee from Thessalonica, was working from a lost Greek manuscript that was different from any others (Hort)[full citation needed].
Wikipedia articles incorporating the template Lives of the Eminent Philosophers
Gould, Josiah (1970b). The Philosophy of Chrysippus – Two Traditional Characterizations. Brill Archive. p. 25.
Most of the biographical information about Theophrastus was provided by Diogenes Laërtius' Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers, written more than four hundred years after Theophrastus's time.[6] He was a native of Eresos in Lesbos.[7] His given name was Tyrtamus (Τύρταμος), but he later became known by the nickname "Theophrastus", given to him, it is said, by Aristotle to indicate the grace of his conversation (from Ancient Greek Θεός 'god' and φράζειν 'to phrase', i.e. divine expression).[8]
Theophrastus (/θiːəˈfræstəs/; Greek: Θεόφραστος Theόphrastos; c. 371 – c. 287 BC[3]) was a Greek philosopher and the successor to Aristotle in the Peripatetic school. He was a native of Eresos in Lesbos.[4] His given name was Tyrtamus (Τύρταμος); his nickname Θεόφραστος (or 'godly phrased') was given by Aristotle, his teacher, for his "divine style of expression".
Cuvier, Georges (1830). "Lecture Ninth – Theophrastus". Baron Cuvier's Lectures on the History of the Natural Sciences. Vol. 9. Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal. pp. 76–83.
Simplicius, in Categ.; comp. Simplicius, in Phys. 94, 201, 202, 1.
Strato of Lampsacus, Alexander of Aphrodisias, and the entire Peripatetic school
Long, George, ed. (1842). "Theophrastus". Penny cyclopaedia of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. Vol. 24. pp. 332–334.
^ "It may we be that we owe to Theophrastus the publication of some at least of his master's voluminous works" (Hort)[full citation needed].
Stratton, George Malcolm (1917). Theophrastus and the Greek physiological psychology before Aristotle.—Contains a translation of On the Senses by Theophrastus.
1.1. Life, Writings, Various Reports, Logic, Physics, Metaphysics, Theology, Mathematics [Texts 1–264].
Walton, S. A. (October 2001). "Theophrastus on Lyngurium: medieval and early modern lore from the classical lapidary tradition". Annals of Science. 58 (4): 357–379. doi:10.1080/000337900110041371. PMID 11724065. S2CID 8649133.
He came to Athens at a young age and initially studied in Plato's school. After Plato's death, he attached himself to Aristotle who took to Theophrastus in his writings. When Aristotle fled Athens, Theophrastus took over as head of the Lyceum.[4] Theophrastus presided over the Peripatetic school for thirty-six years, during which time the school flourished greatly. He is often considered the father of botany for his works on plants.[5] After his death, the Athenians honoured him with a public funeral. His successor as head of the school was Strato of Lampsacus.
A world is named Theophrastus in the 2014 Firefly graphic novel Serenity: Leaves on the Wind.[citation needed]
^ Noted by Dwyer 1993, p. 478, figs 15 and 16.
1.2. Psychology, Human Physiology, Living Creatures, Botany, Ethics, Religion, Politics, Rhetoric and Poetics, Music, Miscellanea [Texts 265–741].
After receiving instruction in philosophy on Lesbos from one Alcippus, he moved to Athens, where he may have studied under Plato.[a] He became friends with Aristotle, and when Plato died (348/7 BC) Theophrastus may have joined Aristotle in his self-imposed exile from Athens. When Aristotle moved to Mytilene on Lesbos in 345/4, it is very likely that he did so at the urging of Theophrastus.[9] It seems that it was on Lesbos that Aristotle and Theophrastus began their research into natural science, with Aristotle studying animals and Theophrastus studying plants.[10] Theophrastus probably accompanied Aristotle to Macedonia when Aristotle was appointed tutor to Alexander the Great in 343/2.[9] Around 335 BC, Theophrastus moved with Aristotle to Athens, where Aristotle began teaching in the Lyceum. When, after the death of Alexander, anti-Macedonian feeling forced Aristotle to leave Athens, Theophrastus remained behind as head (scholarch) of the Peripatetic school,[9] a position he continued to hold after Aristotle's death in 322/1.
"Peripatetic Logic: The Work of Eudemus of Rhodes and Theophrastus of Eresus"
Metaphysics (or On First Principles).Translated by M. van Raalte, 1993, Brill.On First Principles. Translated by Dimitri Gutas, 2010, Brill.
^ Cicero, Tusculanae Quaestiones, iii. 28; Jerome, Letter to Nepotian; Laërtius 1925, § 41.
^ Laërtius 1925, § 44; Cicero, Tusculanae Quaestiones, iii. 10; Alexander of Aphrodisius, de Anima, ii.
Theophrastus did not allow a happiness resting merely upon virtue,[86] or, consequently, to hold fast by the unconditional value of morality. He subordinated moral requirements to the advantage at least of a friend,[87] and had allowed in prosperity the existence of an influence injurious to them. In later times, fault was found with his expression in the Callisthenes, "life is ruled by fortune, not wisdom" (vitam regit fortuna non sapientia).[88] That in the definition of pleasure, likewise, he did not coincide with Aristotle, seems to be indicated by the titles of two of his writings, one of which dealt with pleasure generally, the other with pleasure as Aristotle had defined it.[24] Although, like his teacher, he preferred contemplative (theoretical), to active (practical) life,[89] he preferred to set the latter free from the restraints of family life, etc. in a manner of which Aristotle would not have approved.[90]
Theophrastus was opposed to eating meat on the grounds that it robbed animals of life and was therefore unjust. Non-human animals, he said, can reason, sense, and feel just as human beings do.[91]
Enquiry into Plants: Books 1–5. Translated by A. F. Hort, 1916. Loeb Classical Library. ISBN 0-674-99077-3 Vol 1 – Vol 2
Filonik, Jakub (2013). "Athenian impiety trials: a reappraisal". Dike. 16: 73–74. doi:10.13130/1128-8221/4290. ISSN 1128-8221.
^ Laërtius 1925, § 42, 43, 44, 45, 47, 49, 50.
The most important of his books are two large botanical treatises, Enquiry into Plants (Περὶ φυτῶν ἱστορία, generally known as Historia Plantarum), and On the Causes of Plants (Greek: Περὶ αἰτιῶν φυτικῶν, Latin: De causis plantarum), which constitute the most important contribution to botanical science during antiquity and the Middle Ages,[12] the first systemization of the botanical world; on the strength of these works some, following Linnaeus, call him the "father of botany".[10]
^ a b c Encyclopedia of classical philosophy 1997, p. 552.
Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Anal. Pr. 14, 72, 73, 82. 22, b, 35; Boethius, de Syll. categ. ii. 594. 5, f. 603, 615.
Under his guidance the school flourished greatly—there were at one period more than 2000 students, Diogenes affirms[16]—and at his death, according to the terms of his will preserved by Diogenes, he bequeathed to it his garden with house and colonnades as a permanent seat of instruction. The comic poet Menander was among his pupils.[16] His popularity was shown in the regard paid to him by Philip, Cassander, and Ptolemy, and by the complete failure of a charge of impiety brought against him.[17][18] He was honored with a public funeral, and "the whole population of Athens, honouring him greatly, followed him to the grave."[12][19] He was succeeded as head of the Lyceum by Strato of Lampsacus.
He knew that pearls came from shellfish, that coral came from India, and speaks of the fossilized remains of organic life.[51] He also considers the practical uses of various stones, such as the minerals necessary for the manufacture of glass; for the production of various pigments of paint such as ochre; and for the manufacture of plaster.[51]
"8 things you didn't know about Dr. Seuss". PBS NewsHour. July 22, 2015. Retrieved October 1, 2021.
Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Anal. Pr. f. 128, 124; Schol. in Arist. 184. 24. 183, b. 2; Boethius, de Interpr.
In addition, Theophrastus wrote on the Warm and the Cold (Περὶ θερμοῦ καὶ ψυχροῦ),[24] on Water (Περὶ ὕδατος), Fire (Περὶ πυρóς),[25] the Sea (Περὶ θαλάττης),[25] on Coagulation and Melting (Περὶ πήξεων καὶ τήξεων), on various phenomena of organic and spiritual life,[25] and on the Soul (Περὶ ψυχῆς), on Experience (Περὶ ἐμπειρίας) and On Sense Perception (also known as On the Senses; Περὶ αἰσθήσεων).[26] Likewise, we find mention of monographs of Theophrastus on the early Greek philosophers Anaximenes, Anaxagoras, Empedocles, Archelaus,[27] Diogenes of Apollonia, Democritus,[28] which were made use of by Simplicius; and also on Xenocrates,[29] against the Academics,[30] and a sketch of the political doctrine of Plato.[28]
5. Sources on Biology (Human Physiology, Living Creatures, Botany: Texts 328–435), by R. W. Sharples (1994).
Theophrastus (1916) [4th century BC].Hort, Arthur (ed.). Περὶ φυτῶν ἱστορία: (Περὶ ὀσμῶν; De Odoribus) [Enquiry into Plants: Concerning odours]. Loeb Classical Library. Vol. II. London and New York: William Heinemann and G.P. Putnam's Sons. pp. 324–489. ISBN 978-0-674-99077-7.(also available here on Penelope)
2Writings											Toggle Writings subsection																					2.1On plants																											2.2On moral characters																											2.3On sensation																											2.4Physics																											2.5Metaphysics																											2.6On stones
Theophrastus, Enquiry into Plants, Hort's English translation of 1916, as html tagged with geolocated place references, at ToposText
Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Anal. Pr. f. 12. 6; Schol. in Arist. 149. 44.
^ Taylor, Angus. Animals and Ethics. Broadview Press, p. 35.
Negbi, Moshe (May 1989). "Theophrastus on geophytes". Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society. 100 (1): 15–43. doi:10.1111/j.1095-8339.1989.tb01708.x.
Various smaller scientific fragments have been collected in the editions of Johann Gottlob Schneider (1818–21) and Friedrich Wimmer (1842–62) and in Hermann Usener's Analecta Theophrastea.[12]
Edited by Sider David and Brunschön Carl Wolfram. Brill 2007.
Cicero, Tusculanae Quaestiones, iii. 28; Jerome, Letter to Nepotian; Laërtius 1925, § 41.
^ Laërtius 1925, § 45, 47, 48; comp. Pliny, H.N. xxviii. 6; Aristotle, Probl. xxxiii. 12.
James D. Watson and Francis Crick"Molecular structure of Nucleic Acids"
Clement of Alexandria, Protrept.; Cicero, de Natura Deorum, i. 13.
Theophrastus presided over the Peripatetic school for thirty-five years,[13] and died at the age of eighty-five according to Diogenes.[14][d]He is said to have remarked, "We die just when we are beginning to live".[15]
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the DGRBM with a Wikisource reference
He recognised no activity without motion,[81] and so referred all activities of the soul to motion: the desires and emotions to corporeal motion, judgment (kriseis) and contemplation to spiritual motion.[82] The idea of a spirit entirely independent of organic activity, must therefore have appeared to him very doubtful; yet he appears to have contented himself with developing his doubts and difficulties on the point, without positively rejecting it.[83] Other Peripatetics, like Dicaearchus, Aristoxenus, and especially Strato, developed further this naturalism in Aristotelian doctrine.
Surely, then, if the life in animals does not need explanation or is to be explained only in this way, may it not be the case that in the heavens too, and in the heavenly bodies, movement does not need explanation or is to be explained in a special way?
1. Theophrastus of Eresus: Sources for His Life, Writings, Thought and Influence (two volumes), edited by William Fortenbaugh et al., Leiden: Brill, 1992.1.1. Life, Writings, Various Reports, Logic, Physics, Metaphysics, Theology, Mathematics [Texts 1–264].1.2. Psychology, Human Physiology, Living Creatures, Botany, Ethics, Religion, Politics, Rhetoric and Poetics, Music, Miscellanea [Texts 265–741].
Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Top. 5, 68, 72, 25, 31.
"It may we be that we owe to Theophrastus the publication of some at least of his master's voluminous works" (Hort)[full citation needed].
Pliny the Elder makes clear references to his use of On Stones in his Naturalis Historia of 77 AD, while updating and making much new information available on minerals himself. Although Pliny's treatment of the subject is more extensive, Theophrastus is more systematic and his work is comparatively free from fable and magic,[54] although he did describe lyngurium, a gemstone supposedly formed of the solidified urine of the lynx (the best ones coming from wild males), which featured in many lapidaries until it gradually disappeared from view in the 17th century.[55]It is mistakenly attributed to Theophrastus the first record of pyroelectricity. The misconception arose soon after the discovery of the pyroelectric properties of tourmaline, which made mineralogists of the time associate the lyngurium with it.[56] Lyngurium is described in the work of Theophrastus as being similar to amber, capable of attracting "straws and bits of wood", but without specifying any pyroelectric properties.[57]
^ Laërtius 1925, § 43; Athenaeus, xii. 2, xiii. 2.
6.1. Sources on Ethics [Texts 436–579B], by William W. Fortenbaugh; with contributions on the Arabic material by Dimitri Gutas (2011).
^ "He is made indeed to say in the probably spurious Preface to the Characters that he is writing in his ninety-ninth year; while St. Jerome's Chronicle asserts that he lived to the age of 107" (Hort)[full citation needed].
^ a b c d e f g Smith 1870, "Theophrastus"
^ Earle R. Caley and John F.C. Richards, Theophrastus: On Stones (Columbus, Ohio: Ohio State University, 1956), page 110, line 12 of the commentary: "Watson identifies the lyngounon of Theophrastus with tourmaline, but evidently his opinion is partly based on the attractive properties of heated tourmaline which had recently been discovered. This identification is repeated by various later writers. For example, Dana states that lyncurium is supposed to be the ancient name for common tourmaline. However, the absence of tourmaline among surviving examples of ancient gems is clearly against this view."
Noted by Dwyer 1993, p. 478, figs 15 and 16.
Katerina Ierodiakonou. "Theophrastus".In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
Besides these writings, Theophrastus wrote several collections of problems, out of which some things at least have passed into the Problems that have come down to us under the name of Aristotle,[37] and commentaries,[38] partly dialogue,[39] to which probably belonged the Erotikos (Ἐρωτικός),[40] Megacles (Μεγακλῆς),[29] Callisthenes (Καλλισθένης),[41] and Megarikos (Μεγαρικός),[24] and letters,[42] partly books on mathematical sciences and their history.[43]
^ Dimitri Gutas (ed.), Theophrastus – On First Principles: known as His Metaphysics, Brill, 2010, p. 10.
Dwyer, Eugene (September 1993). "André Thevet and Fulvio Orsini: The Beginnings of the Modern Tradition of Classical Portrait Iconography". The Art Bulletin. 75 (3): 467–480. doi:10.2307/3045969. JSTOR 3045969.
^ Gavin Hardy and Laurence Totelin, Ancient Botany, 2015, p. 10.
^ It was carefully copied in a printing at Basel, 1541.[citation needed]
^ Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Anal. Pr. 14, 72, 73, 82. 22, b, 35; Boethius, de Syll. categ. ii. 594. 5, f. 603, 615.
Fragments of a History of Physics (Περὶ φυσικῶν ἱστοριῶν) are extant. To this class of work belong the still extant sections on Fire, on the Winds, and on the signs of Waters, Winds, and Storms.[48]
On Sweat, On Dizziness and On Fatigue. Translated by W. Fortenbaugh, R. Sharples, M. Sollenberger. Brill 2002. ISBN 90-04-12890-5
^ Ammonius, de Interpr. 53; Schol. in Arist. 108, 27.
Fortenbaugh, W. W., and D. Gutas, eds. 1992. Theophrastus: His Psychological, Doxographical and Scientific Writings. Rutgers University Studies in Classical Humanities 5. New Brunswick, NJ, and London: Transaction Books.
^ Simplicius, in Phys. f. 87, b; John Phil. 213. 4.
3.1. Sources on Physics (Texts 137–223), by R. W. Sharples (1998).
Grene, Marjorie; Depew, David (2004). The philosophy of biology: an episodic history. Cambridge University Press. p. 11. ISBN 978-0-521-64380-1.
Laërtius 1925, § 45, 47, 48; comp. Pliny, H.N. xxviii. 6; Aristotle, Probl. xxxiii. 12.
The Metaphysics (anachronistic Greek title: Θεοφράστου τῶν μετὰ τὰ φυσικά),[49] in nine chapters (also known as On First Principles), was considered a fragment of a larger work by Usener in his edition (Theophrastos, Metaphysica, Bonn, 1890), but according to Ross and Fobes in their edition (Theophrastus, Metaphysica, Oxford, 1929), the treatise is complete (p. X) and this opinion is now widely accepted. There is no reason for assigning this work to some other author because it is not noticed in Hermippus and Andronicus, especially as Nicolaus of Damascus had already mentioned it.[44]
Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Arist. Anal. Pr. 109, b. etc. 131, b.; John Phil. lx. etc. lxxv.; Boethius, de Syll. hypoth.
^ Clement of Alexandria, Protrept.; Cicero, de Natura Deorum, i. 13.
"Since 'unknown portraits' were not valued highly, identifying inscriptions were often added to classical portraits by antiquaries and collectors before modern scholarship condemned the practice", notes Eugene Dwyer.[92]
Ierodiakonou, Katerina (2020), "Theophrastus",in Zalta, Edward N. (ed.), The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2020 ed.), Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, retrieved July 7, 2022
A treatise On Sense Perception (Περὶ αἰσθήσεων) and its objects is important for a knowledge of the doctrines of the more ancient Greek philosophers regarding the subject. A paraphrase and commentary on this work was written by Priscian of Lydia in the sixth century.[45] With this type of work we may connect the fragments on Smells, on Fatigue, on Dizziness, on Sweat, on Swooning, on Palsy, and on Honey.[44]
He departed more widely from Aristotle in his doctrine of motion, since on the one hand he extended it over all categories, and did not limit it to those laid down by Aristotle.[78] He viewed motion, with Aristotle, as an activity, not carrying its own goal in itself (ateles), of that which only potentially exists,[79] but he opposed Aristotle's view that motion required a special explanation, and he regarded it as something proper both to nature in general and the celestial system in particular:
De Causis Plantarum. Translated by B. Einarson and G. Link, 1989–1990. Loeb Classical Library. 3 volumes: ISBN 0-674-99519-8, ISBN 0-674-99523-6, ISBN 0-674-99524-4.
^ "Aristippus in the fourth book of his treatise On Ancient Luxury asserts that he was enamored of Aristotle's son Nicomachus" (Laërtius 1925, § 38).
The Enquiry into Plants was originally ten books, of which nine survive. The work is arranged into a system whereby plants are classified according to their modes of generation, their localities, their sizes, and according to their practical uses such as foods, juices, herbs, etc.[45] The first book deals with the parts of plants; the second book with the reproduction of plants and the times and manner of sowing; the third, fourth, and fifth books are devoted to trees, their types, their locations, and their practical applications; the sixth book deals with shrubs and spiny plants; the seventh book deals with herbs; the eighth book deals with plants that produce edible seeds; and the ninth book deals with plants that produce useful juices, gums, resins, etc.[45]
^ "Theophrastus is said to have studied first at Eresus under Alcippus, then at Athens under Plato. The latter report is problematic; but if true, it would explain an early association with Aristotle."(Encyclopedia of classical philosophy 1997, p. 552).
^ Simplicius, in Categ. f. 5; Schol. p. 89. 15; comp. Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Metaph. 342. 30.
Enquiry into Plants: Books 6–9; Treatise on Odours; Concerning Weather Signs. Translated by A. F. Hort, 1926. Loeb Classical Library. ISBN 0-674-99088-9Theophrastus (1916) [4th century BC].Hort, Arthur (ed.). Περὶ φυτῶν ἱστορία: (Περὶ ὀσμῶν; De Odoribus) [Enquiry into Plants: Concerning odours]. Loeb Classical Library. Vol. II. London and New York: William Heinemann and G.P. Putnam's Sons. pp. 324–489. ISBN 978-0-674-99077-7.(also available here on Penelope)
^ "Ancient Logic: Forerunners of Modus Ponens and Modus Tollens". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
^ Matthew Hall, Plants as Persons: A Philosophical Botany, p. 28.
Simplicius, in Phys. f. 87, b; John Phil. 213. 4.
^ "History of Logic: Theophrastus of Eresus" in Encyclopædia Britannica Online.
The extent to which Theophrastus followed Aristotle's doctrines, or defined them more accurately, or conceived them in a different form, and what additional structures of thought he placed upon them, can only be partially determined because of the loss of so many of his writings.[44] Many of his opinions have to be reconstructed from the works of later writers such as Alexander of Aphrodisias and Simplicius.[58]
^ Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Anal. Pr. f. 128, 124; Schol. in Arist. 184. 24. 183, b. 2; Boethius, de Interpr.
^ Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Anal. Pr. 39, b. etc. 40, 42, 56, b. 82, 64, b. 51; John Phil. xxxii, b. etc.
Thevet, ch. 31; Dwyer 1993, p. 476 notes that it had been illustrated by Orsini 1569 in "the first critical collection of ancient portraiture" (Dwyer 1993, p. 468).
Simplicius, in Categ. f. 5; Schol. p. 89. 15; comp. Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Metaph. 342. 30.
This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Wheeler, Emmanuel (1911). "Theophrastus".In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 26 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 787.
A board game named Theophrastus was released in 2001. Players compete through a series of Alchemy experiments in order to become Theophrastus's apprentice.[97]
Pertsinidis, S. 2018. Theophrastus' Characters: A new introduction. London: Routledge.
In his treatise On Stones (Περὶ λίθων), which would become a source for otherlapidaries until at least the Renaissance,[50] Theophrastus classified rocks and gems based on their behavior when heated, further grouping minerals by common properties, such as amber and magnetite, which both have the power of attraction.[51][52][53]
Theophrastus seems, generally speaking, where the investigation overstepped the limits of experience, to have preferred to develop the difficulties rather than solve them, as is especially apparent in his Metaphysics.[44] He was doubtful of Aristotle's teleology and recommended that such ideas be used with caution:
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Historia plantarum (in Italian). Venezia. 1549.
The marble herm figure with the bearded head of philosopher type, bearing the explicit inscription, must be taken as purely conventional. Unidentified portrait heads did not find a ready market in post-Renaissance Rome.[g] This bust was formerly in the collection of marchese Pietro Massimi at Palazzo Massimi and belonged to marchese L. Massimi at the time the engraving was made. It is now in the Villa Albani, Rome (inv. 1034). The inscribed bust has often been illustrated in engravings[93] and photographs: a photograph of it forms the frontispiece to the Loeb Classical Library Theophrastus: Enquiry into Plants vol. I, 1916. André Thevet illustrated[94] in his iconographic compendium, Les vraies Pourtrats et vies des Hommes Illustres (Paris, 1584), an alleged portrait plagiarized from the bust, supporting his fraud with the invented tale that he had obtained it from the library of a Greek in Cyprus and that he had seen a confirming bust in the ruins of Antioch.[95]
Cicero, Tusculanae Quaestiones, iii. 10; comp. Alexander of Aphrodisias, de Anima, ii.
"He is made indeed to say in the probably spurious Preface to the Characters that he is writing in his ninety-ninth year; while St. Jerome's Chronicle asserts that he lived to the age of 107" (Hort)[full citation needed].
^ Alexander of Aphrodisias, in Top. 5, 68, 72, 25, 31.
Lang, Sidney B. (August 2005). "Pyroelectricity: From Ancient Curiosity to Modern Imaging Tool". Physics Today. 58 (8): 31–36. Bibcode:2005PhT....58h..31L. doi:10.1063/1.2062916.
He did not follow the incessant attempts by Aristotle to refer phenomena to their ultimate foundations, or his attempts to unfold the internal connections between the latter, and between them and phenomena.[44] In antiquity, it was a subject of complaint that Theophrastus had not expressed himself with precision and consistency respecting God, and had understood it at one time as Heaven, at another an (enlivening) breath (pneuma).[85]
The interests of Theophrastus were wide ranging, including biology, physics, ethics and metaphysics. His two surviving botanical works, Enquiry into Plants (Historia Plantarum) and On the Causes of Plants, were an important influence on Renaissance science. There are also surviving works On Moral Characters, On Sense Perception, and On Stones, as well as fragments on Physics and Metaphysics. In philosophy, he studied grammar and language and continued Aristotle's work on logic. He also regarded space as the mere arrangement and position of bodies, time as an accident of motion, and motion as a necessary consequence of all activity.[citation needed] In ethics, he regarded happiness as depending on external influences as well as on virtue.
^ Ammonius, in Arist. de Interpr. 128; Schol. in Arist. 121. 18.
"Aristippus in the fourth book of his treatise On Ancient Luxury asserts that he was enamored of Aristotle's son Nicomachus" (Laërtius 1925, § 38).
^ "8 things you didn't know about Dr. Seuss". PBS NewsHour. July 22, 2015. Retrieved October 1, 2021.
Gould, Josiah B. (1970). The Philosophy of Chrysippus: Peasants, Provincials, and Folklore in the 1937 Paris World's Fair. Suny Press. p. 24. ISBN 978-0-87395-064-0.
Gavin Hardy and Laurence Totelin, Ancient Botany, Routledge, 2015, p. 8.
Probably out of the fourth book of the Meteorology ("ἐν τετάρτῃ περὶ μεταρσίων") of Theophrastus: see Plutarch, Quaest. Gr. vii.
Van Raalte, M. 1993. Theophrastus' Metaphysics. Leiden, The Netherlands: E.J. Brill.
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
Many of the rarer minerals were found in mines, and Theophrastus mentions the famous copper mines of Cyprus and the even more famous silver mines, presumably of Laurium near Athens – the basis of the wealth of the city – as well as referring to gold mines. The Laurium silver mines, which were the property of the state, were usually leased for a fixed sum and a percentage on the working. Towards the end of the fifth century BCE the output fell, partly owing to the Spartan occupation of Decelea from c.  413 BCE. But the mines continued to be worked, though Strabo (c.  64 BCE to c.  24 CE) records that in his time the tailings were being worked over, and Pausanias (c.  110 to c.  180) speaks of the mines as a thing of the past. The ancient workings, consisting of shafts and galleries for excavating the ore, and washing tables for extracting the metal, may still be seen. Theophrastus wrote a separate work On Mining,[24] which – like most of his writings – is a lost work.
"History of Logic: Theophrastus of Eresus" in Encyclopædia Britannica Online.
This page was last edited on 16 March 2023, at 10:12 (UTC).
^ Ierodiakonou, Katerina (2020), "Theophrastus",in Zalta, Edward N. (ed.), The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2020 ed.), Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, retrieved July 7, 2022
He studied general history, as we know from Plutarch's lives of Lycurgus, Solon, Aristides, Pericles, Nicias, Alcibiades, Lysander, Agesilaus, and Demosthenes, which were probably borrowed from the work on Lives (Περὶ βίων).[20] But his main efforts were to continue the labours of Aristotle in natural history. This is testified to not only by a number of treatises on individual subjects of zoology, of which, besides the titles, only fragments remain, but also by his books On Stones, his Enquiry into Plants, and On the Causes of Plants (see below), which have come down to us entire. In politics, also, he seems to have trodden in the footsteps of Aristotle. Besides his books on the State (Πολιτικῶν and Πολιτικοῦ), we find quoted various treatises on Education (Περὶ παιδείας βασιλέως and Περὶ παιδείας),[31] on Royalty (Περὶ βασιλείας, Περὶ παιδείας βασιλέως and Πρὸς Κάσανδρον περὶ βασιλείας),[32] on the Best State (Περὶ τῆς ἀρίστης πολιτείας), on Political Morals (Πολιτικῶν ἐθῶν), and particularly his works on the Laws (Νόμων κατὰ στοιχεῖον, Νόμων ἐπιτομῆς and Περὶ νόμων), one of which, containing a recapitulation of the laws of various barbarian as well as Greek states, was intended to be a companion to Aristotle's outline of Politics, and must have been similar to it.[33] He also wrote on oratory and poetry.[34] Theophrastus, without doubt, departed further from Aristotle in his ethical writings,[35] as also in his metaphysical investigations of motion, the soul, and God.[36]
Theophrastus seems to have carried out still further the grammatical foundation of logic and rhetoric, since in his book on the elements of speech, he distinguished the main parts of speech from the subordinate parts, and also direct expressions (κυρία λέξις kuria lexis) from metaphorical expressions, and dealt with the emotions (πάθη pathe) of speech.[59] He further distinguished a twofold reference of speech (σχίσις schisis) to things (πράγματα pragmata) and to the hearers, and referred poetry and rhetoric to the latter.[60]
"Theophrastus is said to have studied first at Eresus under Alcippus, then at Athens under Plato. The latter report is problematic; but if true, it would explain an early association with Aristotle."(Encyclopedia of classical philosophy 1997, p. 552).
^ Thevet, ch. 31; Dwyer 1993, p. 476 notes that it had been illustrated by Orsini 1569 in "the first critical collection of ancient portraiture" (Dwyer 1993, p. 468).
ff. 9 volumes are planned; the published volumes are:1. Theophrastus of Eresus: Sources for His Life, Writings, Thought and Influence — Commentary, Leiden: Brill, 19942. Logic [Texts 68–136], by Pamela Huby (2007); with contributions on the Arabic material by Dimitri Gutas.3.1. Sources on Physics (Texts 137–223), by R. W. Sharples (1998).4. Psychology (Texts 265–327), by Pamela Huby (1999); with contributions on the Arabic material by Dimitri Gutas.5. Sources on Biology (Human Physiology, Living Creatures, Botany: Texts 328–435), by R. W. Sharples (1994).6.1. Sources on Ethics [Texts 436–579B], by William W. Fortenbaugh; with contributions on the Arabic material by Dimitri Gutas (2011).8. Sources on Rhetoric and Poetics (Texts 666–713), by William W. Fortenbaugh (2005); with contributions on the Arabic material by Dimitri Gutas.9.1. Sources On Music (Texts 714-726C), by Massimo Raffa (2018).9.2. Sources on Discoveries and Beginnings, Proverbs et al. (Texts 727–741), by William W. Fortenbaugh (2014).
Laërtius 1925, § 42, 43, 44, 45, 47, 49, 50.
Dwyer 1993, p. [page needed] notes Statius pl. xiii; Galle pl. 143; Bellori pl. 38; Gronovius, vol. II p. 92; Visconti, 180–3 pl. xxi, 1–2.
"Theophrastus on Lyngurium: medieval and early modern lore from the classical lapidary tradition"
Theophrastus' Characters: An Ancient Take on Bad Behavior by James Romm (author), Pamela Mensch (translator), and André Carrilho (illustrator), Callaway Arts & Entertainment, 2018.
Parva NaturaliaSense and SensibiliaOn MemoryOn SleepOn DreamsOn Divination in SleepOn Length and Shortness of LifeOn Youth, Old Age, Life and Death, and Respiration
^ a b Gavin Hardy and Laurence Totelin, Ancient Botany, Routledge, 2015, p. 8.
"Primary Xylem of Scilla hyacinthoides (Liliaceae): The Wool-Bearing Bulb of Theophrastus"
Theophrastus (1916). Theophrastus: Enquiry into Plants. Vol. 1. Translated by Hort, A. F. New York: Loeb Classical Library/G.P. Putnam's Sons. Book I–V.
His book Characters (Ἠθικοὶ χαρακτῆρες) contains thirty brief outlines of moral types. They are the first recorded attempt at systematic character writing. The book has been regarded by some as an independent work; others incline to the view that the sketches were written from time to time by Theophrastus, and collected and edited after his death; others, again, regard the Characters as part of a larger systematic work, but the style of the book is against this. Theophrastus has found many imitators in this kind of writing, notably Joseph Hall (1608), Sir Thomas Overbury (1614–16), Bishop Earle (1628), and Jean de La Bruyère (1688), who also translated the Characters.[12] George Eliot also took inspiration from Theophrastus's Characters, most notably in her book of caricatures, Impressions of Theophrastus Such. Writing the "character sketch" as a scholastic exercise also originated in Theophrastus's typology.[citation needed]
Although these works contain many absurd and fabulous statements, they include valuable observations concerning the functions and properties of plants.[45] Theophrastus observed the process of germination and recognized the significance of climate to plants. Much of the information on the Greek plants may have come from his own observations, as he is known to have travelled throughout Greece, and to have had a botanical garden of his own; but the works also profit from the reports on plants of Asia brought back from those who followed Alexander the Great: .mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}
^ Theodore Gaza, a refugee from Thessalonica, was working from a lost Greek manuscript that was different from any others (Hort)[full citation needed].
^ Themistius, in Arist. de An. 89, b. 91, b.
1. Theophrastus of Eresus: Sources for His Life, Writings, Thought and Influence — Commentary, Leiden: Brill, 1994
^ Laërtius 1925, § 36; comp. Aulus Gellius, xiii. 5.
Historia Plantarum and Causes of Plants of Theophrastus c. 300 BC
Earle R. Caley and John F.C. Richards, Theophrastus: On Stones (Columbus, Ohio: Ohio State University, 1956), page 51, paragraph 28 of the original text: "It [smaragdos] is remarkable in its powers, and so is the lyngourion [i.e., lynx-urine stone] … . It has the power of attraction, just as amber has, and some say that it not only attracts straws and bits of wood, but also copper and iron, if the pieces are thin, as Diokles used to explain."
^ Probably out of the fourth book of the Meteorology ("ἐν τετάρτῃ περὶ μεταρσίων") of Theophrastus: see Plutarch, Quaest. Gr. vii.
"Doctrine of "Fair Price" by Thomas Aquinas: background, laws of development and specific interpretation"
Echoing Athanasius of Alexandria, he said that "The only begotten Son of God ... assumed our nature, so that he, made man, might make men gods."[174]
^ Kramer, Heinrich (2009). Malleus Maleficarum. Translated by Christopher Mackay. Cambridge. pp. 91–92.
^ Code of Canon Law, Can. 252, §3 "Code of Canon Law". vatican.va. Archived from the original on 8 May 2011. Retrieved 22 March 2011.
"Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy August 17, 2019". Archived from the original on 27 July 2019. Retrieved 17 August 2019.
^ a b Thomas Aquinas. "Question 94, Article 3". Summa Theologica.
Now the object of the theological virtues is God Himself, Who is the last end of all, as surpassing the knowledge of our reason. On the other hand, the object of the intellectual and moral virtues is something comprehensible to human reason. Wherefore the theological virtues are specifically distinct from the moral and intellectual virtues.[109]
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 118, Article 1". Summa Theologica. Vol. Second Part of the Second Part. Retrieved 26 October 2018 – via ccel.org.
^ a b "Commentary on Saint Paul's Letter to the Philippians, available at §2–2". Archived from the original on 20 October 2017. Retrieved 19 June 2015.
This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Lindsay, Thomas Martin; Mitchell, John Malcolm (1911). "Thomas Aquinas". Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 2 (11th ed.). pp. 250–252.
See Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theologiae I, q. 44, a. 1, co (Latin and English)
"Introductory Guide to Reading the Summa Theologica of Thomas Aquinas"
Aquinas, Thomas (1981). Summa Theologica. New York: English Dominican Fathers. pp. II–II, Q58, A1.
Whether the natural law contains several precepts, or one only is explained by Thomas, "All the inclinations of any parts whatsoever of human nature, e.g., of the concupiscible and irascible parts, in so far as they are ruled by reason, belong to the natural law, and are reduced to one first precept, as stated above: so that the precepts of the natural law are many in themselves, but are based on one common foundation."[114]
In God's tribunal, those who return are always received, because God is a searcher of hearts, and knows those who return in sincerity. But the Church cannot imitate God in this, for she presumes that those who relapse after being once received, are not sincere in their return; hence she does not debar them from the way of salvation, but neither does she protect them from the sentence of death.For this reason the Church not only admits to Penance those who return from heresy for the first time, but also safeguards their lives, and sometimes by dispensation, restores them to the ecclesiastical dignities which they may have had before, should their conversion appear to be sincere: we read of this as having frequently been done for the good of peace. But when they fall again, after having been received, this seems to prove them to be inconstant in faith, wherefore when they return again, they are admitted to Penance, but are not delivered from the pain of death.[177]
With respect to Paul's assertion that Christ, "though he was in the form of God ... emptied himself" (Philippians 2:6–7) in becoming human, Thomas offered an articulation of divine kenosis that has informed much subsequent Catholic Christology. Following the Council of Nicaea, Augustine of Hippo, as well as the assertions of Scripture, Thomas held the doctrine of divine immutability.[167][168][169] Hence, in becoming human, there could be no change in the divine person of Christ. For Thomas, "the mystery of Incarnation was not completed through God being changed in any way from the state in which He had been from eternity, but through His having united Himself to the creature in a new way, or rather through having united it to Himself."[170]
^ Thomas Aquinas, pp. 241, 245–49. Emphasis is the author's.
^ "John Paull II, Apostolic Letter, Inter Munera Academiarum (28 January 1999), no. 4".
Murray, Paul (2013). "10. The collapse, the silence". Aquinas at Prayer: The Bible, Mysticism and Poetry. Bloomsbury. ISBN 978-1-4411-0589-9.
"1225-1274- Thomas Aquinas, Sanctus\ – Operum Omnium Conspectus seu 'Index of available Writings'"
He does not, like the Platonic Socrates, set out to follow wherever the argument may lead. He is not engaged in an inquiry, the result of which it is impossible to know in advance. Before he begins to philosophize, he already knows the truth; it is declared in the Catholic faith. If he can find apparently rational arguments for some parts of the faith, so much the better; if he cannot, he need only fall back on revelation. The finding of arguments for a conclusion given in advance is not philosophy, but special pleading. I cannot, therefore, feel that he deserves to be put on a level with the best philosophers either of Greece or of modern times.[195]
^ Kwasniewski, Peter A. "A Tale of Two Wonderworkers: St. Nicholas of Myra in the Writings and Life of St. Thomas Aquinas" (PDF). International Theological Institute for Studies on Marriage and the Family Gaming, Austria. Archived from the original (PDF) on 19 November 2018. Retrieved 19 March 2016 – via desales.edu.
Thomas Aquinas was careful to distinguish the just, or natural, price of a good from that price which manipulates another party. He determines the just price from a number of things. First, the just price must be relative to the worth of the good. Thomas held that the price of a good measures its quality: "the quality of a thing that comes into human use is measured by the price given for it."[132] He goes on to say that the price of a good, measured by its worth, is determined by its usefulness to man. This worth is subjective because each good has a different level of usefulness to every man. Thomas argued, then, that the price should reflect the current value of a good according to its usefulness to man. He continues: "Gold and silver are costly not only on account of the usefulness of the vessels and other like things made from them, but also on account of the excellence and purity of their substance."[133]
Benedict XV Encyclical Fausto appetente die Archived 21 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine 29 June 1921, AAS 13 (1921), 332; Pius XI Encyclical Studiorum Ducem §11, 29 June 1923, AAS 15 (1923), cf. AAS 17 (1925) 574; Paul VI, 7 March 1964 AAS 56 (1964), 302 (Bouscaren, vol. VI, pp. 786–88).
"The Just War". Archived from the original on 23 April 2021. Retrieved 24 February 2012.
^ "Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy August 17, 2019". Archived from the original on 27 July 2019. Retrieved 17 August 2019.
David, Marian (Summer 2022). "The Correspondence Theory of Truth". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Retrieved 24 February 2023.
Moreover, the common good is better than the particular good of one person. So, the particular good should be removed in order to preserve the common good. But the life of certain pestiferous men is an impediment to the common good which is the concord of human society. Therefore, certain men must be removed by death from the society of men.
^ Collison, Diane, and Kathryn Plant. Fifty Major Philosophers. 2nd ed. New York: Routledge, 2006.
Kramer, Heinrich (2009). Malleus Maleficarum. Translated by Christopher Mackay. Cambridge. pp. 91–92.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 11, Article 3". Summa Theologica. Vol. II–II.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 64. Article 1". Summa Theologica. Vol. Second Part of the Second Part.
"Summa Theologica, Question 64, Article 4, "Whether justice is the chief of the moral virtues?"". Archived from the original on 19 April 2021. Retrieved 29 May 2020.
It is helpful to understand as well other related types of justice: if social justice is from the individual to the community, and distributive justice is from the community to the individual, there is also commutative justice (between two individuals, as in buying and selling, or stealing and returning) as well as retributive justice (rectifications that occur to restore justice, once justice has been violated).[97]
Modern Western views concerning capitalism, unfair labor practice, living wage, price gouging, monopolies, fair trade practices, and predatory pricing, inter alia, are remnants of the inculcation of Aquinas' interpretation of natural moral law.[137]
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 94, Second Article, Reply Obj. 2". Summa Theologica.
The question was again addressed by Aquinas in Summa Theologica III Q. 68 Art. 10:
^ a b Walz, Angelus (4 December 1930). "Compendium historiae Ordinis Praedicatorum [microform]". Romae : Herder – via Internet Archive.
To will such natural goods to oneself and to others is to love. Accordingly, Aquinas states that the love precept obligating loving God and neighbor are "the first general principles of the natural law, and are self-evident to human reason, either through nature or through faith. Wherefore all the precepts of the decalogue are referred to these, as conclusions to general principles."[103][104]
In self-defense, as long as there is a reasonable possibility of success. If failure is a foregone conclusion, then it is just a wasteful spilling of blood.
de Tocco, Guilelmus; Le Brun-Gouanvic, Claire (1996). Ystoria sancti Thome de Aquino de Guillaume de Tocco (1323). Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies. ISBN 978-0-88844-127-0.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "On the Work of the Sixth Day, Reply to Objection 5" (PDF). Summa Theologica – via NDPR.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 114, Article 4". Summa Theologica. Vol. I.
McBride, William Leon (1997). The Development and Meaning of Twentieth-century Existentialism. Taylor and Francis. p. 131. ISBN 0-8153-2491-X.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Of Cheating, Which Is Committed in Buying and Selling" (PDF). Summa Theologica. Translated by The Fathers of the English Dominican Province. Retrieved 19 June 2012.
Novak, Michael (December 1995), "Aquinas and the Heretics" Archived 9 April 2016 at the Wayback Machine, First Things.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "STh I–II, 26, 4, corp. art". Summa Theologica. Retrieved 30 October 2010 – via newadvent.org.
"SUMMA THEOLOGIAE: The parts of Justice (Secunda Secundae Partis, Q. 61)"
Smith, George H. (2008).Ronald Hamowy (ed.). The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism. Sage. doi:10.4135/9781412965811.n11. ISBN 978-1-4129-6580-4. LCCN 2008009151. OCLC 750831024. Individuals, therefore, have a private 'sphere of action which is distinct from the whole.'
^ Thomas Aquinas. "The Existence of God (Prima Pars, Q. 2)". Summa Theologica – via newadvent.org.
De Magistro Archived 12 May 2012 at the Wayback Machine (On the teacher q. 11, a.1 of de Veritate)
Ordered tendencies of nature: A direction of actions to an end is noticed in all bodies following natural laws. Anything without awareness tends to a goal under the guidance of one who is aware. This we call God.[c][151]
^ Aquinas, Thomas. Summa Theologica I-II q. 100, a. 3 ad 1.
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 71, Article 6". Summa Theologica. Vol. II–I. Retrieved 17 January 2010 – via newadvent.org.
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 94, Article 2". Summa Theologica. Retrieved 2 February 2012 – via ccel.org.
^ See Actus Essendi. See also Actus Essendi and the Habit of the First Principle in Thomas Aquinas (New York: Einsiedler Press, 2019) Archived 23 March 2021 at the Wayback Machine.
Gregorovius, Ferdinand. "Ptolomaei Lucensis historia ecclesiastica nova, xxii, c. 24" (PDF). History of the City of Rome in the Middle Ages. Vol. V. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 October 2011. Tenuit studium Rome, quasi totam Philosophiam, sive Moralem, sive Naturalem exposuit
^ Gonzalez, Justo L. (1984). The Story of Christianity. HarperSanFrancisco.
Aquinas, Thomas (1981). Summa Theologica. New York: English Dominican Fathers. pp. II–II, Q77, A1.
^ Aquinas, Thomas (1981). Summa Theologica. New York: English Dominican Fathers. pp. II–II, Q77, A2.
Brown, Paterson. "St. Thomas's Doctrine of Necessary Being", Philosophical Review, 1964.
Schaff, Philip (1953). "Thomas Aquinas". The New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge. Vol. 126. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Baker Book House. pp. 422–23. Bibcode:1930Natur.126..951G. doi:10.1038/126951c0. S2CID 4140923.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 94, Reply Obj. 2". Summa Theologica. Vol. First Part of the Second Part.
"demons" are intellective substances who were created good and have chosen to be bad, it is these who are bid.[183]
Family members became desperate to dissuade Thomas, who remained determined to join the Dominicans. At one point, two of his brothers resorted to the measure of hiring a prostitute to seduce him. As included in the official records for his canonization, Thomas drove her away wielding a burning log—with which he inscribed a cross onto the wall—and fell into a mystical ecstasy; two angels appeared to him as he slept and said, "Behold, we gird thee by the command of God with the girdle of chastity, which henceforth will never be imperiled. What human strength can not obtain, is now bestowed upon thee as a celestial gift." From then onwards, Thomas was given the grace of perfect chastity by Christ, a girdle he wore till the end of his life. The girdle was given to the ancient monastery of Vercelli in Piedmont, and is now at Chieri, near Turin.[34][35]
^ "St. Thomas Aquinas | Biography, Philosophy, & Facts". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 20 January 2020.
When he was canonized, his feast day was inserted in the General Roman Calendar for celebration on 7 March, the day of his death. Since this date commonly falls within Lent, the 1969 revision of the calendar moved his memorial to 28 January, the date of the translation of his relics to Church of the Jacobins, Toulouse.[87][88]
"Anselm of Canterbury (1033–1109)", Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2006, retrieved 10 November 2017
This criticism is illustrated with the following example: according to Russell, Thomas advocates the indissolubility of marriage "on the ground that the father is useful in the education of the children, (a) because he is more rational than the mother, (b) because, being stronger, he is better able to inflict physical punishment."[196] Even though modern approaches to education do not support these views, "No follower of Saint Thomas would, on that account, cease to believe in lifelong monogamy, because the real grounds of belief are not those which are alleged."[196]
"Summa Theologica, Question 64, Article 4, "Whether justice is the chief of the moral virtues?""
Thomas Aquinas wrote "[Greed] is a sin against God, just as all mortal sins, in as much as man condemns things eternal for the sake of temporal things."[110]
In his Summa Theologiae Thomas clearly states his position on the nature of the soul; defining it as "the first principle of life".[126] The soul is not corporeal, or a body; it is the act of a body. Because the intellect is incorporeal, it does not use the bodily organs, as "the operation of anything follows the mode of its being."[127]
Adamson, Peter (2013). "From the necessary existent to God". In Adamson, Peter (ed.). Interpreting Avicenna: Critical Essays. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521190732.
"Aquinatis: Vida de Santo Tomás de Aquino". 22 May 2008. {{cite web}}: Check |url= value (help)
This Trinity exists independently from the world. It transcends the created world, but the Trinity also decided to give grace to human beings. This takes place through the Incarnation of the Word in the person of Jesus Christ and through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit within those who have experienced salvation by God; according to Aidan Nichols.[162]
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 50, Article 1". Summa Theologica. Vol. III. Retrieved 17 January 2010 – via newadvent.org.
^ Grant, Edward (1996). The Foundations of Modern Science in the Middle Ages: Their Religious, Institutional, and Intellectual Contexts. Cambridge University Press. pp. 81–82. ISBN 0-521-56762-9.
"Aquinas' Philosophical Theology | Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy". Iep.utm.edu. Retrieved 7 August 2022.
Joyce, James (1992). A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. Wordsworth Editions. p. 221. ISBN 978-1853260063 – via Internet Archive.
^ McInerny, Ralph; O'Callaghan, John (5 February 2018).Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University – via Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
Just as the government of a king is the best, so the government of a tyrant is the worst.
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 55, Reply 1". Summa Theologica. Retrieved 2 February 2012 – via ccel.org.
In 1245, Thomas was sent to study at the Faculty of the Arts at the University of Paris, where he most likely met Dominican scholar Albertus Magnus,[37] then the holder of the Chair of Theology at the College of St. James in Paris.[38] When Albertus was sent by his superiors to teach at the new studium generale at Cologne in 1248,[37] Thomas followed him, declining Pope Innocent IV's offer to appoint him abbot of Monte Cassino as a Dominican.[25] Albertus then appointed the reluctant Thomas magister studentium.[26] Because Thomas was quiet and didn't speak much, some of his fellow students thought he was slow. But Albertus prophetically exclaimed: "You call him the dumb ox, but in his teaching he will one day produce such a bellowing that it will be heard throughout the world."[25]
Causation: As in the case of motion, nothing can cause itself, and an infinite chain of causation is impossible, so there must be a First Cause, called God.
Wippel, John F. (1995) 2nd ed., "Aquinas, Saint Thomas," The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, Cambridge University Press. p. 36.
A war is not legitimate or illegitimate simply based on its original motivation: it must comply with a series of additional requirements:[citation needed]
Saint Thomas Aquinas, Physica Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine, Book 2, Lecture 14, Fathers of the English Dominican Province
In recent years the cognitive neuroscientist Walter Freeman proposes that Thomism is the philosophical system explaining cognition that is most compatible with neurodynamics, in a 2008 article in the journal Mind and Matter titled "Nonlinear Brain Dynamics and Intention According to Aquinas".[citation needed]
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 50, Article 1". Summa Theologica. Vol. III. Retrieved 17 January 2010 – via newadvent.org.
Additionally Thomas considered Empedocles's theory that various mutated species emerged at the dawn of Creation. Thomas reasoned that these species were generated through mutations in animal sperm, and argued that they were not unintended by nature; rather, such species were simply not intended for perpetual existence. That discussion is found in his commentary on Aristotle's Physics:
Kreeft, Peter (1990). Summa of the Summa. Ignatius Press. ISBN 0-89870-300-X.
"SUMMA THEOLOGIAE: The ascension of Christ (Tertia Pars, Q. 57)"
Summa totius logicae. [s.n.]: [s.l.], 1880. 96 p. Available online at the University Library in Bratislava Digital Library.
God is infinite. That is, God is not finite in the ways that created beings are physically, intellectually, and emotionally limited. This infinity is to be distinguished from infinity of size and infinity of number.[156]
^ Gregorovius, Ferdinand. "Ptolomaei Lucensis historia ecclesiastica nova, xxii, c. 24" (PDF). History of the City of Rome in the Middle Ages. Vol. V. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 October 2011. Tenuit studium Rome, quasi totam Philosophiam, sive Moralem, sive Naturalem exposuit
3.11Treatment of heretics																								3.11.1Forced baptism of children of Jews and heretics
In 1268, the Dominican Order assigned Thomas to be regent master at the University of Paris for a second time, a position he held until the spring of 1272. Part of the reason for this sudden reassignment appears to have arisen from the rise of "Averroism" or "radical Aristotelianism" in the universities. In response to these perceived errors, Thomas wrote two works, one of them being De unitate intellectus, contra Averroistas (On the Unity of Intellect, against the Averroists) in which he reprimands Averroism as incompatible with Christian doctrine.[58] During his second regency, he finished the second part of the Summa and wrote De virtutibus and De aeternitate mundi, contra murmurantes (On the Eternity of the World, against Grumblers),[53] the latter of which dealt with controversial Averroist and Aristotelian beginninglessness of the world.[59]
Thomas believed that the existence of God is self-evident in itself, but not to us. "Therefore I say that this proposition, "God exists", of itself is self-evident, for the predicate is the same as the subject ... Now because we do not know the essence of God, the proposition is not self-evident to us; but needs to be demonstrated by things that are more known to us, though less known in their nature—namely, by effects."[150]
^ Colish, Marcia, Medieval Foundations of the Western Intellectual Tradition, 400–1400, Yale University Press, 1997, p. 333–334
Simple theft, forgery, fraud, and other such crimes were also capital offenses; Thomas's point seems to be that the gravity of this offense, which touches not only the material goods but also the spiritual goods of others, is at least the same as forgery. Thomas's suggestion specifically demands that heretics be handed to a "secular tribunal" rather than magisterial authority. That Thomas specifically says that heretics "deserve ... death" is related to his theology, according to which all sinners have no intrinsic right to life ("For the wages of sin is death; but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord"[Romans 6:23]). Although the life of a heretic who repents should be spared, the former heretic should be executed if he relapses into heresy. Thomas elaborates on his opinion regarding heresy in the next article, when he says:
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 11, Article 4". Summa Theologica. Vol. II–II.
Under this doctrine, expansionist wars, wars of pillage, and wars for glory are all inherently unjust.
Abbé Migne published an edition of the Summa Theologiae, in four volumes, as an appendix to his Patrologiae Cursus Completus (English editions: Joseph Rickaby 1872, J.M. Ashley 1888).
The same thing is true of those substances Empedocles said were produced at the beginning of the world, such as the 'ox-progeny', i.e., half ox and half-man. For if such things were not able to arrive at some end and final state of nature so that they would be preserved in existence, this was not because nature did not intend this [a final state], but because they were not capable of being preserved. For they were not generated according to nature, but by the corruption of some natural principle, as it now also happens that some monstrous offspring are generated because of the corruption of seed.[147]
^ Saint Thomas Aquinas, Physica Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine, Book 2, Lecture 14, Fathers of the English Dominican Province
The belligerents must exhaust all options for dialogue and negotiation before undertaking a war; war is legitimate only as a last resort.
Gordon, Barry (2009) [1987]. "Aquinas, St Thomas (1225–1274)". The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics. Vol. 1. p. 100.
Thomas Aquinas also wrote extensively on usury, that is, the lending of money with interest. He condemned its practice: "to take usury for money lent is unjust in itself, because this is to sell what does not exist, and this evidently leads to inequality which is contrary to justice."[134] Money, and other similar goods, are consumed only when they are used. Charging a premium for money lent is a charge for more than the use of the good. Thus, Thomas Aquinas concluded that the lender is charging for something not his own, in other words, not rendering to each his due.
Torrell, Jean-Pierre (2005). Saint Thomas Aquinas (Rev. ed.). Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press. ISBN 978-0-8132-1423-8. OCLC 456104266.
Thomas's theory of political order became highly influential. He sees man as a social being that lives in a community and interacts with its other members. That leads, among other things, to the division of labour.
Actus Essendi and the Habit of the First Principle in Thomas Aquinas (New York: Einsiedler Press, 2019)
^ Umberto, Eco (25 October 1988). The Aesthetics of Thomas Aquinas. Translated by Bredin, Hugh. Harvard University Press. ISBN 9780674006768.
Langston, Douglas (5 February 2015).Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University – via stanford.edu.
^ "Summa Theologica, Question 64, Article 4, "Whether justice is the chief of the moral virtues?"". Archived from the original on 19 April 2021. Retrieved 29 May 2020.
Anon. (1899). The Irish Ecclesiastical Record. Year 32. Vol. V, No. 37. Browne and Nolan.
(Russell 1967, p. 463) A History of Western Philosophy, Ch. 34, "St. Thomas Aquinas", Allen & Unwin, London; Simon & Schuster, New York 1946, pp. 484–.
Brown, Jonathan A. C. (2014). Misquoting Muhammad: The Challenge and Choices of Interpreting the Prophet's Legacy. Oneworld Publications. p. 12. ISBN 978-1-78074-420-9. Thomas Aquinas admitted relying heavily on Averroes to understand Aristotle.
Thomas argued that God, while perfectly united, also is perfectly described by Three Interrelated Persons. These three persons (Father, Son, and Holy Spirit) are constituted by their relations within the essence of God. Thomas wrote that the term "Trinity" "does not mean the relations themselves of the Persons, but rather the number of persons related to each other; and hence it is that the word in itself does not express regard to another."[161] The Father generates the Son (or the Word) by the relation of self-awareness. This eternal generation then produces an eternal Spirit "who enjoys the divine nature as the Love of God, the Love of the Father for the Word."
^ "Notable Lutheran Saints". Resurrectionpeople.org. Archived from the original on 16 May 2019. Retrieved 16 July 2019.
Küng, Hans (1994). Great Christian Thinkers. New York: Continuum Books. ISBN 0-8264-0848-6.
Existence of necessary and the unnecessary: Our experience includes things certainly existing but apparently unnecessary. Not everything can be unnecessary, for then once there was nothing and there would still be nothing. Therefore, we are compelled to suppose something that exists necessarily, having this necessity only from itself; in fact itself the cause for other things to exist.
^ Broadie, Alexander (1999)."Aquinas, St Thomas," The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, Oxford University Press, p. 43.
"SUMMA THEOLOGIAE: The parts of Justice (Secunda Secundae Partis, Q. 61)". www.newadvent.org. Retrieved 30 August 2022.
angels and demons ("spiritual substances") may do wonderful things, but they are not miracles and merely use natural things as instruments.[182]
At the age of nineteen, Thomas resolved to join this Dominican Order. Thomas's change of heart, however, did not please his family.[31] In an attempt to prevent Theodora's interference in Thomas's choice, the Dominicans arranged to move Thomas to Rome, and from Rome, to Paris.[32] However, while on his journey to Rome, per Theodora's instructions, his brothers seized him as he was drinking from a spring and took him back to his parents at the castle of Monte San Giovanni Campano.[32]
^ Note that even when we guide objects, in Thomas's view the source of all our knowledge comes from God as well.
^ https://aquinas.cc/la/en/~ST.II-II.Q61 Archived 14 October 2022 at the Wayback Machine or https://www.newadvent.org/summa/3061.htm Archived 14 October 2022 at the Wayback Machine
The first edition of Thomas's complete works, the so-called editio Piana (from Pius V, the Dominican Pope who commissioned it), was produced in 1570 at the studium of the Roman convent at Santa Maria sopra Minerva, the forerunner of the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, Angelicum.[197]
Chesterton, G. K. (27 February 1932). "Essay on St. Thomas Aquinas". The Spectator – via chesterton.org.
^ Summa Conta Gentiles, Book III, Chapter 146, paragraphs 2–5 https://isidore.co/aquinas/ContraGentiles3b.htm#146 Archived 30 October 2022 at the Wayback Machine
^ Novak, Michael (December 1995), "Aquinas and the Heretics" Archived 9 April 2016 at the Wayback Machine, First Things.
Documenta Catholica Omnia – his complete works in PDF files, in (in Latin, Italian, English, German, Spanish, French, and Portuguese)
^ "Saint Thomas Aquinas". CatholicSaints.Info. 12 December 2008. Retrieved 20 January 2020.
"Aquinas the Scholar" from The Thirteenth, the Greatest of Centuries, ch. XVII by James Joseph Walsh
[I]n distributive justice something is given to a private individual, in so far as what belongs to the whole is due to the part, and in a quantity that is proportionate to the importance of the position of that part in respect of the whole. Consequently in distributive justice a person receives all the more of the common goods, according as he holds a more prominent position in the community. This prominence in an aristocratic community is gauged according to virtue, in an oligarchy according to wealth, in a democracy according to liberty, and in various ways according to various forms of community. Hence in distributive justice the mean is observed, not according to equality between thing and thing, but according to proportion between things and persons: in such a way that even as one person surpasses another, so that which is given to one person surpasses that which is allotted to another.
[De unitate intellectus] McInerny, Ralph M. (1993). Aquinas Against the Averroists: On There Being Only One Intellect. Purdue University Press. ISBN 1-55753-029-7.
Broadie, Alexander (1999)."Aquinas, St Thomas," The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, Oxford University Press, p. 43.
God is simple, without composition of parts, such as body and soul, or matter and form.[153]
The desires to live and to procreate are counted by Thomas among those basic (natural) human values on which all human values are based. According to Thomas, all human tendencies are geared towards real human goods. In this case, the human nature in question is marriage, the total gift of oneself to another that ensures a family for children and a future for mankind.[115] He defined the dual inclination of the action of love: "towards the good which a man wishes to someone (to himself or to another) and towards that to which he wishes some good".[116]
Thomas believed that truth is known through reason, rationality (natural revelation) and faith (supernatural revelation). Supernatural revelation has its origin in the inspiration of the Holy Spirit and is made available through the teaching of the prophets, summed up in Holy Scripture, and transmitted by the Magisterium, the sum of which is called "Tradition". Natural revelation is the truth available to all people through their human nature and powers of reason. For example, he felt this applied to rational ways to know the existence of God.
Ystoria sancti Thome de Aquino de Guillaume de Tocco (1323)
Massey, Gerald J. (1995). "Rhetoric and Rationality in William Harvey's De Mortu Cordis".In Henry Krips; J. E. McGuire; Trevor Melia (eds.). Science, Reason, and Rhetoric. University of Pittsburgh. ISBN 978-0-8229-7041-5.
A monastery at Naples, near Naples Cathedral, shows a cell in which he supposedly lived.[84] His remains were translated from Fossanova to the Church of the Jacobins in Toulouse on 28 January 1369. Between 1789 and 1974, they were held in the Basilica of Saint-Sernin. In 1974, they were returned to the Church of the Jacobins, where they have remained ever since.
As a Doctor of the Church, Thomas Aquinas is considered one of the Catholic Church's greatest theologians and philosophers. Pope Benedict XV declared: "This (Dominican) Order ... acquired new luster when the Church declared the teaching of Thomas to be her own and that Doctor, honored with the special praises of the Pontiffs, the master and patron of Catholic schools."[19][20]
Nureev Rustem, M. (1 March 2015). "Doctrine of "Fair Price" by Thomas Aquinas: background, laws of development and specific interpretation". Journal of Institutional Studies. 7 (1): 006–024. doi:10.17835/2076-6297.2015.7.1.006-024. ISSN 2076-6297. OCLC 8773558345.
Though one may deduce the existence of God and his Attributes (Unity, Truth, Goodness, Power, Knowledge) through reason, certain specifics may be known only through the special revelation of God through Jesus Christ. The major theological components of Christianity, such as the Trinity, the Incarnation, and charity are revealed in the teachings of the church and the scriptures and may not otherwise be deduced.[138] However, Aquinas also makes a distinction between "demonstrations" of sacred doctrines and the "persuasiveness" of those doctrines.[139] The former is akin to something like "certainty", whereas the latter is more probabilistic in nature.[139]
"Introductory Guide to Reading the Summa Theologica of Thomas Aquinas" Archived 20 October 2017 at the Wayback Machine
"First the Bow is Bent in Study-- ": Dominican Education Before 1350
"Saint Thomas Aquinas". CatholicSaints.Info. 12 December 2008. Retrieved 20 January 2020.
A mention of witchcraft appears in the Summa Theologicae[185] and concludes that the church does not treat temporary or permanent impotence attributed to a spell any differently to that of natural causes, as far as an impediment to marriage.
Natural and human law is not adequate alone. The need for human behavior to be directed made it necessary to have Divine law. Divine law is the specially revealed law in the scriptures. Thomas quotes, "The Apostle says (Hebrews 7.12): The priesthood being translated, it is necessary that a translation also be made of the law. But the priesthood is twofold, as stated in the same passage, viz, the levitical priesthood, and the priesthood of Christ. Therefore the Divine law is twofold, namely, the Old Law and the New Law."[117]
At the age of five Thomas began his early education at Monte Cassino, but after the military conflict between the Emperor Frederick II and Pope Gregory IX spilled into the abbey in early 1239, Landulf and Theodora had Thomas enrolled at the studium generale (university) established by Frederick in Naples.[27] There, his teacher in arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, and music was Petrus de Ibernia.[28] It was at this university that Thomas was presumably introduced to Aristotle, Averroes and Maimonides, all of whom would influence his theological philosophy.[29] During his study at Naples, Thomas also came under the influence of John of St. Julian, a Dominican preacher in Naples, who was part of the active effort by the Dominican Order to recruit devout followers.[30]
"Blog Archive " Saint Thomas Aquinas". Saints.SQPN.com. 22 October 1974. Retrieved 17 January 2010.
De Rationibus Fidei/Reasons for the Faith against Muslim Objections ...
. . . this is the first precept of the law, that good is to be done and promoted, and evil is to be avoided. All other precepts of the natural law are based on this . . .[113]
3Theology											Toggle Theology subsection																					3.1Revelation																								3.1.1Preserving nature within grace																														3.2God																											3.3Creation																											3.4Just war																								3.4.1School of Salamanca																														3.5Nature of God																											3.6Nature of Sin																											3.7Nature of the Trinity																											3.8Prima causa (first cause)																											3.9Nature of Jesus Christ																											3.10Goal of human life																											3.11Treatment of heretics																								3.11.1Forced baptism of children of Jews and heretics																														3.12Magic and its practitioners																											3.13Thoughts on afterlife and resurrection
^ "Avicenna (Ibn Sina) (c. 980–1037)". The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 6 January 2006. Retrieved 19 January 2010.
^ Weigel, George (2001). The Truth of Catholicism. New York: HarperCollins. p. 9. ISBN 0-06-621330-4.
Colish, Marcia, Medieval Foundations of the Western Intellectual Tradition, 400–1400, Yale University Press, 1997, p. 333–334
^ "Thomas Aquinas, Commentary on the De Trinitate of Boethius, quest. 2, art. 3". Archived from the original on 18 September 2021. Retrieved 22 February 2021.
His best-known works are the Disputed Questions on Truth (1256–1259), the Summa contra Gentiles (1259–1265), and the unfinished Summa Theologica, or Summa Theologiae (1265–1274). His commentaries on Scripture and on Aristotle also form an important part of his body of work. Furthermore, Thomas is distinguished for his eucharistic hymns, which form a part of the church's liturgy.[17] The Catholic Church honors Thomas Aquinas as a saint and regards him as the model teacher for those studying for the priesthood, and indeed the highest expression of both natural reason and speculative theology. In modern times, under papal directives, the study of his works was long used as a core of the required program of study for those seeking ordination as priests or deacons, as well as for those in religious formation and for other students of the sacred disciplines (philosophy, Catholic theology, church history, liturgy, and canon law).[18]
Once war has begun, there remain moral limits to action. For example, one may not attack innocents or kill hostages.
According to Michael Novak, Aquinas' view in the matter of death penalty for obstinate heretics is one of the more difficult parts of dealing with Thomism.[179]
In other words, Aquinas thinks Christian doctrines are "fitting" to reason (i.e. reasonable), even though they can't be demonstrated beyond a reasonable doubt.[139] In fact, the Summa Theologica is filled with examples of Aquinas arguing that we would expect certain Christian doctrines to be true, even though these expectations aren't demonstrative (i.e. 'fitting' or reasonable).[140] For example, Aquinas, argues that we would expect God to become incarnate, and we would expect a resurrected Christ to not stay on Earth.[140][141]
In Summa Contra Gentiles, Book 3, Chapter 146, which was written by Aquinas prior to writing the Summa Theologica, Aquinas was a vocal supporter of the death penalty. He stated:[98]
Thomas defined the four cardinal virtues as prudence, temperance, justice, and fortitude. The cardinal virtues are natural and revealed in nature, and they are binding on everyone. There are, however, three theological virtues: faith, hope, and charity. Thomas also describes the virtues as imperfect (incomplete) and perfect (complete) virtues. A perfect virtue is any virtue with charity, charity completes a cardinal virtue. A non-Christian can display courage, but it would be courage with temperance. A Christian would display courage with charity. These are somewhat supernatural and are distinct from other virtues in their object, namely, God:
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 64. Article 1". Summa Theologica. Vol. Second Part of the Second Part.
"Augustine and Aquinas on Original Sin and the Function of Political Authority"
Discussion of Aquinas, In Our Time, BBC Radio 4, 2009
On 6 December 1273, another mystical experience took place. While Thomas was celebrating Mass, he experienced an unusually long ecstasy.[67] Because of what he saw, he abandoned his routine and refused to dictate to his socius Reginald of Piperno. When Reginald begged him to get back to work, Thomas replied: "Reginald, I cannot, because all that I have written seems like straw to me"[68] (mihi videtur ut palea).[69] As a result, the Summa Theologica would remain uncompleted.[70] What exactly triggered Thomas's change in behavior is believed by some to have been some kind of supernatural experience of God.[71] After taking to his bed, however, he did recover some strength.[72]
"Commentary on Saint Paul's Letter to the Philippians, available at §2–2"
Thomas Aquinas. "The mode of union of the Word incarnate (Tertia Pars, Q. 2)". Summa Theologica – via newadvent.org.
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 114, Article 4". Summa Theologica. Vol. I.
CognitivismMoral realismEthical naturalismEthical non-naturalismEthical subjectivismIdeal observer theoryDivine command theoryError theory
"The mode of union of the Word incarnate (Tertia Pars, Q. 2)"
^ Summa theologiae, I, 1, prooemium: "Quia Catholicae veritatis doctor non-solum provectos debet instruere, sed ad eum pertinet etiam incipientes erudire, secundum illud apostoli I ad Corinth. III, tanquam parvulis in Christo, lac vobis potum dedi, non-escam; propositum nostrae intentionis in hoc opere est, ea quae ad Christianam religionem pertinent, eo modo tradere, secundum quod congruit ad eruditionem incipientium."
^ Weisheipl, James (1974). Friar Thomas D'Aquino: His Life, Thought, and Work. Doubleday. p. 319.
Aquinas, Thomas (1920). "Question 75, Article 1". Summa Theologiae of St. Thomas Aquinas. Translated by The Fathers of the English Dominican Province (Second and Revised ed.).
Disputes with some important Franciscans conspired to make his second regency much more difficult and troubled than the first. A year before Thomas re-assumed the regency at the 1266–67 Paris disputations, Franciscan master William of Baglione accused Thomas of encouraging Averroists, most likely counting him as one of the "blind leaders of the blind". Eleonore Stump says, "It has also been persuasively argued that Thomas Aquinas's De aeternitate mundi was directed in particular against his Franciscan colleague in theology, John Pecham."[59]
In 1272, Thomas took leave from the University of Paris when the Dominicans from his home province called upon him to establish a studium generale wherever he liked and staff it as he pleased. He chose to establish the institution in Naples and moved there to take his post as regent master.[53] He took his time at Naples to work on the third part of the Summa while giving lectures on various religious topics. He also preached to the people of Naples every day in Lent, 1273. These sermons on the Commandments, the Creed, the Our Father, and Hail Mary were very popular.[63]
^ Weithman, Paul J. (1992). "Augustine and Aquinas on Original Sin and the Function of Political Authority" Archived 9 December 2021 at the Wayback Machine, p. 356.
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 94, Reply Obj. 2". Summa Theologica. Vol. First Part of the Second Part.
Weithman, Paul J. (1992). "Augustine and Aquinas on Original Sin and the Function of Political Authority" Archived 9 December 2021 at the Wayback Machine, p. 356.
Thomas blended Greek philosophy and Christian doctrine by suggesting that rational thinking and the study of nature, like revelation, were valid ways to understand truths pertaining to God. According to Thomas, God reveals himself through nature, so to study nature is to study God. The ultimate goals of theology, in Thomas's mind, are to use reason to grasp the truth about God and to experience salvation through that truth. The central thought is "gratia non tollit naturam, sed perficit" ('grace does not destroy nature, but perfects it').[71]
Aquinas, Thomas; Regan, Richard J.; Davies, Brian (2003). On Evil. Oxford University Press US. p. 5. ISBN 0-19-509183-3.
The Second Lateran Council called the practice of loaning money "detestable and shameful... insatiable rapacity of money lenders, forbidden both by divine and human laws throughout the Old and New Testament, we condemn, and separate from the ecclesiastical consolation".[135] The Fifth Lateran Council defined usury as "when, from its use, a thing which produces nothing is applied to the acquiring of gain and profit without any work, any expense or any risk".[136]
Thomas Aquinas viewed theology, or the sacred doctrine, as a science,[71] the raw material data of which consists of written scripture and the tradition of the Catholic Church. These sources of data were produced by the self-revelation of God to individuals and groups of people throughout history. Faith and reason, while distinct but related, are the two primary tools for processing the data of theology. Thomas believed both were necessary—or, rather, that the confluence of both was necessary—for one to obtain true knowledge of God.[71]
Gilson, Etienne, The Christian Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas, University of Notre Dame Press, 1994, pp. 84–95
"Social justice" is a term that arose in the 19th century in the writings of Luigi Taparelli, SJ,[95] and it was his term for the reality Thomas Aquinas called "legal justice" or "general justice."Legal or social justice is the contribution from the individual to the common good. So for Aquinas, distributive justice goes in the direction from the common good to the individual, and is a proportional distribution of common goods, to individuals based on their contribution to the community. Legal or general justice, or what came to be called social justice, goes in the other direction, from the individuals to the common good.[96]
Dante Alighieri. "Purg. xx. 69". Divine Comedy. Archived from the original on 26 July 2011. Retrieved 17 January 2010 – via Divinecomedy.org.
^ a b Schaff, Philip (1953). "Thomas Aquinas". The New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge. Vol. 126. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Baker Book House. pp. 422–23. Bibcode:1930Natur.126..951G. doi:10.1038/126951c0. S2CID 4140923.
"Aquinas' Moral, Political and Legal Philosophy", by J. Finnis (2011), in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
Note that even when we guide objects, in Thomas's view the source of all our knowledge comes from God as well.
Aquinas, Thomas (1993). Selected Philosophical Writings. Oxford University Press. pp. Xi. ISBN 0-19-283585-8.
Aquinas, Thomas. "d. 27 q. 1 a.1". In Sententiae. Vol. IV, Commentary. Retrieved 21 September 2011 – via corpusthomisticum.org.
Russell, Bertrand (1967). A History of Western Philosophy. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-671-20158-1.
The influence of Thomas's aesthetics also can be found in the works of the Italian semiotician Umberto Eco, who wrote an essay on aesthetic ideas in Thomas (published in 1956 and republished in 1988 in a revised edition).[194]
On the part of the Church, however, there is mercy which looks to the conversion of the wanderer, wherefore she condemns not at once, but "after the first and second admonition," as the Apostle directs: after that, if he is yet stubborn, the Church no longer hoping for his conversion, looks to the salvation of others, by excommunicating him and separating him from the Church, and furthermore delivers him to the secular tribunal to be exterminated thereby from the world by death. For Jerome commenting on Galatians 5:9, "A little leaven," says: "Cut off the decayed flesh, expel the mangy sheep from the fold, lest the whole house, the whole paste, the whole body, the whole flock, burn, perish, rot, die. Arius was but one spark in Alexandria, but as that spark was not at once put out, the whole earth was laid waste by its flame." (ST II:II 11:3 corpus)
Heresy was a capital offense against the secular law of most European countries of the 13th century. Kings and emperors, even those at war with the papacy, listed heresy first among the crimes against the state. Kings claimed power from God according to the Christian faith. Often enough, especially in that age of papal claims to universal worldly power, the rulers' power was tangibly and visibly legitimated directly through coronation by the pope.
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 118, Article 1". Summa Theologica. Vol. Second Part of the Second Part. Retrieved 26 October 2018 – via ccel.org.
^ Gordon, Barry (2009) [1987]. "Aquinas, St Thomas (1225–1274)". The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics. Vol. 1. p. 100.
Thomas's aesthetic theories, especially the concept of claritas, deeply influenced the literary practice of modernist writer James Joyce, who used to extol Thomas as being second only to Aristotle among Western philosophers. Joyce refers to Thomas's doctrines in Elementa philosophiae ad mentem D. Thomae Aquinatis doctoris angelici (1898) of Girolamo Maria Mancini, professor of theology at the Collegium Divi Thomae de Urbe.[192] For example, Mancini's Elementa is referred to in Joyce's Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.[193]
^ Thomas Aquinas. "The unity or plurality in God (Prima Pars, Q. 31)". Summa Theologica – via newadvent.org.
^ Aquinas, Thomas (1981). Summa Theologica. New York: English Dominican Fathers. pp. II–II, Q77, A1.
Furthermore, in his Treatise on Law, Thomas distinguished four kinds of law: eternal, natural, human, and divine. Eternal law is the decree of God that governs all creation: "That Law which is the Supreme Reason cannot be understood to be otherwise than unchangeable and eternal."[111] Natural law is the human "participation" in the eternal law and is discovered by reason.[112] Natural law is based on "first principles":
Augustine of Hippo's reflexion on divine essentiality or essentialist theology would influence Richard of St. Victor, Alexander of Hales and St. Bonaventure. By this method, the essence of God is defined by what God is, and also by describing what God is not (negative theology). St. Thomas took the text of Exodus beyond the explanation of essential theology. He bridged the gap of understanding between the being of essence and the being of existence. In Summa Theologica, the way is prepared with the proofs for the existence of God. All that remained was to recognize the God of Exodus as having the nature of "Him Who is the supreme act of being". God is simple, there is no composition in God. In this regard, Aquinas relied on Boethius who in turn followed the path of Platonism, something Aquinas usually avoided.[142]
Kennedy, Daniel Joseph (1912). "St. Thomas Aquinas" .In Herbermann, Charles (ed.). Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 14. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
any efficacy of magicians does not come from the power of particular words, or celestial bodies, or special figures, or sympathetic magic, but by bidding (ibid., 105)
^ Benedict XV Encyclical Fausto appetente die Archived 21 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine 29 June 1921, AAS 13 (1921), 332; Pius XI Encyclical Studiorum Ducem §11, 29 June 1923, AAS 15 (1923), cf. AAS 17 (1925) 574; Paul VI, 7 March 1964 AAS 56 (1964), 302 (Bouscaren, vol. VI, pp. 786–88).
"The Miraculous Cord of Saint Thomas Aquinas and the Angelic Warfare"
Marshall, Dr Taylor (26 January 2011). "The Miraculous Cord of Saint Thomas Aquinas and the Angelic Warfare". Taylor Marshall. Retrieved 22 March 2021.
^ Schumpeter, Joseph (1954). History of Economic Analysis. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 90.
^ Dante Alighieri. "Purg. xx. 69". Divine Comedy. Archived from the original on 26 July 2011. Retrieved 17 January 2010 – via Divinecomedy.org.
The conclusion was that the meaning of "I Am Who Am" is not an enigma to be answered, but the statement of the essence of God. This is the discovery of Aquinas: the essence of God is not described by negative analogy, but the "essence of God is to exist". This is the basis of "existential theology" and leads to what Gilson calls the first and only existential philosophy. In Latin, this is called "Haec Sublimis Veritas", "the sublime truth". The revealed essence of God is to exist, or in the words of Aquinas, I am the pure Act of Being. This has been described as the key to understanding Thomism. Thomism has been described (as a philosophical movement), as either the emptiest, or the fullest of philosophies.[142]
Some 200 years later, the School of Salamanca expanded Thomas's understanding of natural law and just war. Given that war is one of the worst evils suffered by mankind, the adherents of the School reasoned that it ought to be resorted to only when it was necessary to prevent an even greater evil. A diplomatic agreement is preferable, even for the more powerful party, before a war is started.Examples of "just war" are:[citation needed]
The Life of Thomas Aquinas: A Dissertation of the Scholastic Philosophy of the Middle Ages
Schumpeter, Joseph (1954). History of Economic Analysis. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 90.
^ Denzinger, Henry, The Sources of Catholic Dogma, B. Herder Book Co., St. Louis, 1955, p. 364
Thomas has been traditionally ascribed with the ability to levitate. For example, G. K. Chesterton wrote that "His experiences included well-attested cases of levitation in ecstasy; and the Blessed Virgin appeared to him, comforting him with the welcome news that he would never be a Bishop."[64][better source needed]
Electronic texts of mostly the Leonine Edition are maintained online by the Corpus Thomisticum[198] by Enrique Alarcón, University of Navarra, and at Documenta Catholica Omnia.[199]
"John Paull II, Apostolic Letter, Inter Munera Academiarum (28 January 1999), no. 4"
^ Note that Thomas does not ascribe actual qualities to God Himself.
"Thomas Aquinas, Commentary on the De Trinitate of Boethius, quest. 2, art. 3". Archived from the original on 18 September 2021. Retrieved 22 February 2021.
^ a b c "Aquinas' Philosophical Theology | Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy". Iep.utm.edu. Retrieved 7 August 2022.
Similarly, Thomas explained that Christ "emptied Himself, not by putting off His divine nature, but by assuming a human nature."[171] For Thomas, "the divine nature is sufficiently full, because every perfection of goodness is there. But human nature and the soul are not full, but capable of fulness, because it was made as a slate not written upon. Therefore, human nature is empty."[171] Thus, when Paul indicates that Christ "emptied himself" this is to be understood in light of his assumption of a human nature.
^ David, Marian (Summer 2022). "The Correspondence Theory of Truth". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Retrieved 24 February 2023.
Note that Thomas does not ascribe actual qualities to God Himself.
Aquinas, Thomas;et al. (1975). "5 volumes.". Summa Contra Gentiles. Translated by Anton C. Pegis. Notre Dame, Ind.: U. of Notre Dame Press.
Thomas's five proofs for the existence of God take some of Aristotle's assertions concerning principles of being. For God as prima causa ("first cause") comes from Aristotle's concept of the unmoved mover and asserts that God is the ultimate cause of all things.[163]
^ Wippel, John F. (1995) 2nd ed., "Aquinas, Saint Thomas," The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, Cambridge University Press. p. 36.
Thomas emphasized that "Synderesis is said to be the law of our mind, because it is a habit containing the precepts of the natural law, which are the first principles of human actions."[106][107]
Thomas Aquinas. "Of Cheating, Which Is Committed in Buying and Selling" (PDF). Summa Theologica. Translated by The Fathers of the English Dominican Province. Retrieved 19 June 2012.
"The Calendar". The Church of England. Retrieved 27 March 2021.
^ Summa of Theology I, q.2, The Five Ways Philosophers Have Proven God's Existence
Gilson, Etienne, The Christian Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas, University of Notre Dame Press, 1994
Hankey, Wayne (2013). The Routledge Companion to Philosophy of Religion (Second ed.). CSU East Bay: Routledge. pp. 134–35. ISBN 978-0-415-78295-1.
Aquinas was receptive to and influenced by Avicenna's Proof of the Truthful.[152] Concerning the nature of God, Thomas, like Avicenna felt the best approach, commonly called the via negativa, is to consider what God is not. This led him to propose five statements about the divine qualities:
^ Pojman, Louis (1995). Ethics: Discovering Right and Wrong. Belmont, California: Wadsworth Publishing Company. ISBN 0-534-56138-1.
"Commentary on Saint Paul's Letter to the Philippians, available at §2–2". Archived from the original on 20 October 2017. Retrieved 19 June 2015.
According to Thomas, monarchs are God's representatives in their territories, but the church, represented by the popes, is above the kings in matters of doctrine and ethics. As a consequence, worldly rulers are obliged to adapt their laws to the Catholic Church's doctrines and determinations.
Thomas Aquinas. "On the Work of the Sixth Day, Reply to Objection 5" (PDF). Summa Theologica – via NDPR.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "The mode of union of the Word incarnate (Tertia Pars, Q. 2)". Summa Theologica – via newadvent.org.
Second, just war must be waged by a properly instituted authority such as the state.
Jordan, Mark D. (2006). Rewritten Theology: Aquinas After His Readers. Wiley. ISBN 978-1-4051-1221-5.
"SUMMA THEOLOGIAE: The ascension of Christ (Tertia Pars, Q. 57)". Newadvent.org. Retrieved 7 August 2022.
While at the Santa Sabina studium provinciale, Thomas began his most famous work, the Summa Theologiae,[46] which he conceived specifically suited to beginner students: "Because a doctor of Catholic truth ought not only to teach the proficient, but to him pertains also to instruct beginners. As the Apostle says in 1 Corinthians 3:1–2, as to infants in Christ, I gave you milk to drink, not meat, our proposed intention in this work is to convey those things that pertain to the Christian religion in a way that is fitting to the instruction of beginners."[52] While there he also wrote a variety of other works like his unfinished Compendium Theologiae and Responsio ad fr. Ioannem Vercellensem de articulis 108 sumptis ex opere Petri de Tarentasia (Reply to Brother John of Vercelli Regarding 108 Articles Drawn from the Work of Peter of Tarentaise).[44]
^ a b Mullady, Brian (2006). "The Angelic Doctor – Thomas Aquinas". Archived from the original on 7 October 2008. Retrieved 11 June 2011.
Thomas Aquinas identified the goal of human existence as union and eternal fellowship with God. This goal is achieved through the beatific vision, in which a person experiences perfect, unending happiness by seeing the essence of God. The vision occurs after death as a gift from God to those who in life experienced salvation and redemption through Christ.
2Philosophy											Toggle Philosophy subsection																					2.1Social justice																											2.2Death penalty																											2.3Commentaries on Aristotle																											2.4Epistemology (theory of knowledge)																											2.5Ethics																											2.6Political order																											2.7Psychology and anthropology																											2.8Economics																								2.8.1Usury
McInerny, Ralph; O'Callaghan, John (5 February 2018).Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University – via Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
^ a b c d McInerny, Ralph; O'Callaghan, John (2018). "Saint Thomas Aquinas".In Edward N. Zalta (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2008 ed.) – via stanford.edu.
McInerny, Ralph; O'Callaghan, John (2018). "Saint Thomas Aquinas".In Edward N. Zalta (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2008 ed.) – via stanford.edu.
Thomas Aquinas. "STh I–II, 26, 4, corp. art". Summa Theologica. Retrieved 30 October 2010 – via newadvent.org.
^ Lemmons, R. Mary Hayden (1992). ""Are the Love Precepts Really Natural Law's Primary Precepts?"". Proceedings of the American Catholic Philosophical Association. LXVI: 45–71. doi:10.5840/acpaproc1992661 – via Philosophy Documentation Center.
God is immutable, incapable of change on the levels of God's essence and character.[157]
God is perfect, lacking nothing. That is, God is distinguished from other beings on account of God's complete actuality.[154] Thomas defined God as the Ipse Actus Essendi subsistens, subsisting act of being.[155]
In his position as head of the studium, Thomas conducted a series of important disputations on the power of God, which he compiled into his De potentia.[53] Nicholas Brunacci [1240–1322] was among Thomas's students at the Santa Sabina studium provinciale and later at the Paris studium generale. In November 1268, he was with Thomas and his associate and secretary Reginald of Piperno as they left Viterbo on their way to Paris to begin the academic year.[54][55] Another student of Thomas's at the Santa Sabina studium provinciale was Blessed Tommasello da Perugia.[56]
Thomas accordingly believes punishment is directly related to earthly, living preparation and activity as well. Thomas's account of the soul focuses on epistemology and metaphysics, and because of this he believes it gives a clear account of the immaterial nature of the soul. Thomas conservatively guards Christian doctrine, and thus maintains physical and spiritual reward and punishment after death. By accepting the essentiality of both body and soul, he allows for a Heaven and Hell described in scripture and church dogma.
"Thomas Aquinas International Society". Archived from the original on 22 May 2000.
Thomas Aquinas refers to animals as dumb and that the natural order has declared animals for man's use. Thomas denied that human beings have any duty of charity to animals because they are not persons. Otherwise, it would be unlawful to kill them for food. But humans should still be charitable to them, for "cruel habits might carry over into our treatment of human beings."[118][119]
Thomistica.net news and newsletter devoted to the academic study of Aquinas
"Thomas Aquinas, Commentary on the De Trinitate of Boethius, quest. 2, art. 3"
https://aquinas.cc/la/en/~ST.II-II.Q61 Archived 14 October 2022 at the Wayback Machine or https://www.newadvent.org/summa/3061.htm Archived 14 October 2022 at the Wayback Machine
Third, peace must be a central motive even in the midst of violence.[149]
"On the Work of the Sixth Day, Reply to Objection 5"
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 75, Article 1". Summa Theologica. Vol. II–I. For evil is the absence of the good, which is natural and due to a thing.
Renz, Christopher J. (2009). In This Light Which Gives Light: A History of the College of St. Albert the Great (1930–1980). Dominican School. ISBN 978-1-883734-18-3.
"St. Thomas Aquinas" article by Daniel Kennedy in the Catholic Encyclopedia (1912), at NewAdvent.org
Thomas thought that monarchy is the best form of government, because a monarch does not have to form compromises with other persons. Aquinas, however, held that monarchy in only a very specific sense was the best form of government––only when the king was virtuous is it the best form; otherwise if the monarch is vicious it is the worst kind (see De Regno I, Ch. 2).Moreover, according to Thomas, oligarchy degenerates more easily into tyranny than monarchy. To prevent a king from becoming a tyrant, his political powers must be curbed. Unless an agreement of all persons involved can be reached, a tyrant must be tolerated, as otherwise the political situation could deteriorate into anarchy, which would be even worse than tyranny. In his political work De Regno, Aquinas subordinated the political power of king to the primacy of the divine and human law of God the creator. For example, he affirmed:
"Postilla in Job"—A photographic facsimile from the Book and Special Collections Division at the Library of Congress
Revealed knowledge does not negate the truth and the completeness of human science as human, it further establishes them. First, it grants that the same things can be treated from two different perspectives without one canceling the other; thus there can be two sciences of God. Second, it provides the basis for the two sciences: one functions through the power of the light of natural reason, the other through the light of divine revelation. Moreover, they can, at least to some extent, keep out of each other's way because they differ "according to genus". Sacred doctrine is a fundamentally different kind of thing from theology, which is part of philosophy (ST I. 1.1 ad 2).
For Jews, Thomas argues for toleration of both their persons and their religious rites.[178]
^ "Aquinas and the Heretics". www.leaderu.com. Retrieved 30 August 2022.
This natural law precept prescribe doing and pursuing what reason knows is good while avoiding evil. Reason knows what is objectively good because the good is naturally beneficial and evil is the contrary. To explain goods that are naturally self-evident, Aquinas divides them into three categories: substantial goods of self-preservation desired by all; the goods common to both animals and humans, such as procreation and education of offspring; and goods characteristic of rational and intellectual beings, such as living in community and pursuing the truth about God.[102]
if there is some transformation that could not occur in nature it is either the demon working on human imagination or arranging a fake.[184]
See Summa Theologiae I, q. 46, aa. 1-2 (Latin and English)
^ Aquinas, Thomas. "d. 27 q. 1 a.1". In Sententiae. Vol. IV, Commentary. Retrieved 21 September 2011 – via corpusthomisticum.org.
Vaughan, Roger Bede (1871). The Life and Labours of St. Thomas of Aquin. Vol. I. London.
"Biography of Aquinas" (in Italian). Aquino, Italy. 28 July 2010. Archived from the original on 27 August 2012. Retrieved 27 June 2021.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 75, Article 1". Summa Theologica. Vol. II–I. For evil is the absence of the good, which is natural and due to a thing.
Denzinger, Henry, The Sources of Catholic Dogma, B. Herder Book Co., St. Louis, 1955, p. 364
In 1054, the Great Schism had occurred between the Catholic Church in the West, and the Eastern Orthodox Church. Looking to find a way to reunite the two, Pope Gregory X convened the Second Council of Lyon to be held on 1 May 1274 and summoned Thomas to attend.[73] At the meeting, Thomas's work for Pope Urban IV concerning the Greeks, Contra errores graecorum, was to be presented.[74]
"Avicenna (Ibn Sina) (c. 980–1037)". The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 6 January 2006. Retrieved 19 January 2010.
Thomas Aquinas wrote several important commentaries on Aristotle's works, including On the Soul, On Interpretation, Nicomachean Ethics, Physics and Metaphysics. His work is associated with William of Moerbeke's translations of Aristotle from Greek into Latin.
^ Aquinas, Thomas;et al. (1975). "5 volumes.". Summa Contra Gentiles. Translated by Anton C. Pegis. Notre Dame, Ind.: U. of Notre Dame Press.
Thomas Aquinas (1981). Summa Theologica. New York: English Dominican Fathers. pp. II–II, Q78, A1.
^ "The Red Herring of Usury". Catholic Answers. Retrieved 30 August 2022.
1Biography											Toggle Biography subsection																					1.1Early life (1225–1244)																											1.2Paris, Cologne, Albert Magnus, and first Paris regency (1245–1259)																											1.3Naples, Orvieto, Rome (1259–1268)																											1.4Quarrelsome second Paris regency (1269–1272)																											1.5Late career and cessation of writing (1272–1274)																											1.6Condemnation of 1277																											1.7Canonization
Thomas Aquinas (2000).Mary T. Clark (ed.). An Aquinas Reader: Selections from the Writings of Thomas Aquinas. Fordham University Press. ISBN 0-8232-2029-X.
The goal of union with God has implications for the individual's life on earth. Thomas stated that an individual's will must be ordered toward right things, such as charity, peace, and holiness. He saw this orientation as also the way to happiness. Indeed, Thomas ordered his treatment of the moral life around the idea of happiness. The relationship between will and goal is antecedent in nature "because rectitude of the will consists in being duly ordered to the last end [that is, the beatific vision]." Those who truly seek to understand and see God will necessarily love what God loves. Such love requires morality and bears fruit in everyday human choices.[175]
Aquinas was a prominent proponent of natural theology and the father of a school of thought (encompassing both theology and philosophy) known as Thomism. He argued that God is the source of the light of natural reason and the light of faith.[12] He has been described as "the most influential thinker of the medieval period"[13] and "the greatest of the medieval philosopher-theologians".[14] His ideas especially influenced Western thought and modern philosophy, particularly in the areas of ethics, natural law, metaphysics, and political theory.
"John Paull II, Apostolic Letter, Inter Munera Academiarum (28 January 1999), no. 4".
Aquinas, Thomas. Summa Theologica I-II q. 100, a. 3 ad 1.
Summa theologiae, I, 1, prooemium: "Quia Catholicae veritatis doctor non-solum provectos debet instruere, sed ad eum pertinet etiam incipientes erudire, secundum illud apostoli I ad Corinth. III, tanquam parvulis in Christo, lac vobis potum dedi, non-escam; propositum nostrae intentionis in hoc opere est, ea quae ad Christianam religionem pertinent, eo modo tradere, secundum quod congruit ad eruditionem incipientium."
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 94, Second Article, Reply Obj. 2". Summa Theologica.
Norman Geisler, Thomas Aquinas: An Evangelical Appraisal, Wipf and Stock Publishers, 2003, p. 26.
^ Marshall, Dr Taylor (26 January 2011). "The Miraculous Cord of Saint Thomas Aquinas and the Angelic Warfare". Taylor Marshall. Retrieved 22 March 2021.
^ See Summa Theologiae I, q. 44, a. 2 (Latin and English), and q. 45, a. 1 (Latin and English)
Kwasniewski, Peter A. "A Tale of Two Wonderworkers: St. Nicholas of Myra in the Writings and Life of St. Thomas Aquinas" (PDF). International Theological Institute for Studies on Marriage and the Family Gaming, Austria. Archived from the original (PDF) on 19 November 2018. Retrieved 19 March 2016 – via desales.edu.
"1225-1274- Thomas Aquinas, Sanctus\ – Operum Omnium Conspectus seu 'Index of available Writings'". documentacatholicaomnia.eu.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 94, Article 2". Summa Theologica. Retrieved 2 February 2012 – via ccel.org.
Aquinas, Thomas (1920). "Question 75, Article 3". Summa Theologiae of St. Thomas Aquinas. Translated by The Fathers of the English Dominican Province (Second and Revised ed.).
With regard to heretics two points must be observed: one, on their own side; the other, on the side of the Church. On their own side there is the sin, whereby they deserve not only to be separated from the Church by excommunication, but also to be severed from the world by death. For it is a much graver matter to corrupt the faith which quickens the soul, than to forge money, which supports temporal life. Wherefore if forgers of money and other evil-doers are forthwith condemned to death by the secular authority, much more reason is there for heretics, as soon as they are convicted of heresy, to be not only excommunicated but even put to death.
Code of Canon Law, Can. 252, §3 "Code of Canon Law". vatican.va. Archived from the original on 8 May 2011. Retrieved 22 March 2011.
^ Aquinas, Thomas; Regan, Richard J.; Davies, Brian (2003). On Evil. Oxford University Press US. p. 5. ISBN 0-19-509183-3.
Thomas believed that the existence of God can be demonstrated. Briefly in the Summa Theologiae and more extensively in the Summa contra Gentiles, he considered in great detail five arguments for the existence of God, widely known as the quinque viae (Five Ways).
^ "Anselm of Canterbury (1033–1109)", Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2006, retrieved 10 November 2017
Thomas Aquinas. "The unity or plurality in God (Prima Pars, Q. 31)". Summa Theologica – via newadvent.org.
Liturgy of the Hours Volume III, Proper of Saints, 28 January.
^ "Question 38, Article 2". Summa theologica Supplement. Whether a spell can be in impediment to marriage. Note this Supplement was written or compiled by others after Thomas's death.
^ "SUMMA THEOLOGIAE: The ascension of Christ (Tertia Pars, Q. 57)". Newadvent.org. Retrieved 7 August 2022.
Governing authorities declare war, but their decision is not sufficient cause to begin a war. If the people oppose a war, then it is illegitimate. The people have a right to depose a government that is waging, or is about to wage, an unjust war.
Summa of Theology I, q.2, The Five Ways Philosophers Have Proven God's Existence
^ Joyce, James (1992). A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. Wordsworth Editions. p. 221. ISBN 978-1853260063 – via Internet Archive.
^ Thomas Aquinas (1981). Summa Theologica. New York: English Dominican Fathers. pp. II–II, Q78, A1.
Nichols, Aidan (2002). Discovering Aquinas. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Eerdmans Publishing Company. pp. 80–82.
"The Origins of Social Justice: Taparelli d'Azeglio". 8 October 2014.
Thomas taught in Cologne as an apprentice professor (baccalaureus biblicus), instructing students on the books of the Old Testament and writing Expositio super Isaiam ad litteram (Literal Commentary on Isaiah), Postilla super Ieremiam (Commentary on Jeremiah), and Postilla super Threnos (Commentary on Lamentations).[39] In 1252, he returned to Paris to study for a master's degree in theology. He lectured on the Bible as an apprentice professor, and upon becoming a baccalaureus Sententiarum (bachelor of the Sentences)[40] he devoted his final three years of study to commenting on Peter Lombard's Sentences. In the first of his four theological syntheses, Thomas composed a massive commentary on the Sentences, titled, Scriptum super libros Sententiarium (Commentary on the Sentences). Aside from his master's writings, he wrote De ente et essentia (On Being and Essence) for his fellow Dominicans in Paris.[25]
When the devil's advocate at his canonization process objected that there were no miracles, one of the cardinals answered, "Tot miraculis, quot articulis"—"there are as many miracles (in his life) as articles (in his Summa)".[85] Fifty years after Thomas's death, on 18 July 1323, Pope John XXII, seated in Avignon, pronounced Thomas a saint.[86]
Summa Conta Gentiles, Book III, Chapter 146, paragraphs 2–5 https://isidore.co/aquinas/ContraGentiles3b.htm#146 Archived 30 October 2022 at the Wayback Machine
"First Council of Nicaea – 325 AD". 20 May 325 – via papalencyclicals.net.
Honderich, Ted, ed. (1995). "Animals: Peter Singer". The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. Oxford. pp. 35–36 – via utilitarian.net.
Faith and reason complement rather than contradict each other, each giving different views of the same truth.
WikiProject Philosophy may be able to help recruit an expert.
^ Chesterton, G. K. (27 February 1932). "Essay on St. Thomas Aquinas". The Spectator – via chesterton.org.
Thomas Aquinas is honored with a feast day in some churches of the Anglican Communion with a Lesser Festival on 28 January.[89]
^ (Russell 1967, p. 463) A History of Western Philosophy, Ch. 34, "St. Thomas Aquinas", Allen & Unwin, London; Simon & Schuster, New York 1946, pp. 484–.
Burr, G. L. (1943).L. O. Gibbons (ed.). Selected Writings. New York. pp. 173–74. Original essay (1890) available here [1] Archived 25 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine.
Thomas argued against several specific contemporary and historical theologians who held differing views about Christ. In response to Photinus, Thomas stated that Jesus was truly divine and not simply a human being. Against Nestorius, who suggested that Son of God was merely conjoined to the man Christ, Thomas argued that the fullness of God was an integral part of Christ's existence. However, countering Apollinaris' views, Thomas held that Christ had a truly human (rational) soul, as well. This produced a duality of natures in Christ. Thomas argued against Eutyches that this duality persisted after the Incarnation. Thomas stated that these two natures existed simultaneously yet distinguishably in one real human body, unlike the teachings of Manichaeus and Valentinus.[166]
Lemmons, R. Mary Hayden (1992). ""Are the Love Precepts Really Natural Law's Primary Precepts?"". Proceedings of the American Catholic Philosophical Association. LXVI: 45–71. doi:10.5840/acpaproc1992661 – via Philosophy Documentation Center.
^ "Blog Archive " Saint Thomas Aquinas". Saints.SQPN.com. 22 October 1974. Retrieved 17 January 2010.
Thomas said slavery was not the natural state of man.[123] He also held that a slave is by nature equal to his master (Summa Theologiae Supplement, Q52, A2, ad 1). He distinguished between 'natural slavery', which is for the benefit of both master and slave, and 'servile slavery', which removes all autonomy from the slave and is, according to Thomas, worse than death.[124]Aquinas' doctrines of the Fair Price,[125] of the right of tyrannicide and of the equality of all the baptized sons of God in the Communion of saints established a limit to the political power to prevent it from degenerating into tyranny. This system had a concern in the Protestant opposition to the Roman Catholic Church and in "disinterested" replies to Thomism carried out by Kant and by Spinoza.
In February 1265, the newly elected Pope Clement IV summoned Thomas to Rome to serve as papal theologian. This same year, he was ordered by the Dominican Chapter of Agnani[48] to teach at the studium conventuale at the Roman convent of Santa Sabina, founded in 1222.[49] The studium at Santa Sabina now became an experiment for the Dominicans, the Order's first studium provinciale, an intermediate school between the studium conventuale and the studium generale. Prior to this time, the Roman Province had offered no specialized education of any sort, no arts, no philosophy; only simple convent schools, with their basic courses in theology for resident friars, were functioning in Tuscany and the meridionale during the first several decades of the order's life. The new studium provinciale at Santa Sabina was to be a more advanced school for the province.[50] Tolomeo da Lucca, an associate and early biographer of Thomas, tells us that at the Santa Sabina studium Thomas taught the full range of philosophical subjects, both moral and natural.[51]
The position taken by Aquinas is that if children were being reared in error, the Church had no authority to intervene. From Summa Theologica II-II Q. 10 Art. 12:
Thomas Aquinas, OP (/əˈkwaɪnəs/; Italian: Tommaso d'Aquino, lit. 'Thomas of Aquino'; 1225 – 7 March 1274) was an Italian[9][10] Dominican friar and priest, an influential philosopher and theologian, and a jurist in the tradition of scholasticism from the county of Aquino in the Kingdom of Sicily, Italy; he is known within the tradition as the Doctor Angelicus, the Doctor Communis, and the Doctor Universalis.[a] In 1999, John Paul II added a new title to these traditional ones: Doctor Humanitatis.[11]
^ The History of Philosophy, Medieval Philosophy, from 500 to 1500 CE. 2011., Edited by Brian Duignan, Britannica Educational Publishing, New York, ISBN 978-1-61530-244-4; "Age of the Schoolmen"
^ a b "Summa, I–II, Q109a1". Retrieved 25 March 2012 – via ccel.org.
Thomas was held prisoner for almost one year in the family castles at Monte San Giovanni and Roccasecca in an attempt to prevent him from assuming the Dominican habit and to push him into renouncing his new aspiration.[29] Political concerns prevented the Pope from ordering Thomas's release, which had the effect of extending Thomas's detention.[33] Thomas passed this time of trial tutoring his sisters and communicating with members of the Dominican Order.[29]
^ a b c d  This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Lindsay, Thomas Martin; Mitchell, John Malcolm (1911). "Thomas Aquinas". Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 2 (11th ed.). pp. 250–252.
Blair, Peter. "Reason and Faith: The Thought of Thomas AquinasOxford". The Dartmouth Apologia. Archived from the original on 13 September 2013. Retrieved 18 December 2013.
^ Aquinas, Thomas (1993). Selected Philosophical Writings. Oxford University Press. pp. Xi. ISBN 0-19-283585-8.
Weisheipl, James (1974). Friar Thomas D'Aquino: His Life, Thought, and Work. Doubleday. p. 319.
^ a b "Aquinas' Philosophical Theology | Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy". Iep.utm.edu. Retrieved 7 August 2022.
^ Aquinas, Thomas (1981). Summa Theologica. New York: English Dominican Fathers. pp. II–II, Q58, A1.
Much of Thomas's work bears upon philosophical topics, and in this sense may be characterized as philosophical. His philosophical thought has exerted enormous influence on subsequent Christian theology, especially that of the Catholic Church, extending to Western philosophy in general.
^ "The Just War". Archived from the original on 23 April 2021. Retrieved 24 February 2012.
In 1277, Étienne Tempier, the same bishop of Paris who had issued the condemnation of 1270, issued another more extensive condemnation. One aim of this condemnation was to clarify that God's absolute power transcended any principles of logic that Aristotle or Averroes might place on it.[79] More specifically, it contained a list of 219 propositions, including twenty Thomistic propositions, that the bishop had determined to violate the omnipotence of God. The inclusion of the Thomistic propositions badly damaged Thomas's reputation for many years.[80]
The Catechetical Instructions of Saint Thomas Aquinas (PDF). documentacatholicaomnia.eu. Translated by Collins, Rev. Joseph B. Baltimore. 9 February 1939. p. 137. Archived (PDF) from the original on 16 December 2007. (with imprimatur of the Archbishop Michael J. Curley)
See Actus Essendi. See also Actus Essendi and the Habit of the First Principle in Thomas Aquinas (New York: Einsiedler Press, 2019) Archived 23 March 2021 at the Wayback Machine.
Thomas states clearly his stance on resurrection, and uses it to back up his philosophy of justice; that is, the promise of resurrection compensates Christians who suffered in this world through a heavenly union with the divine. He says, "If there is no resurrection of the dead, it follows that there is no good for human beings other than in this life."[191] Resurrection provides the impetus for people on earth to give up pleasures in this life. Thomas believes the human who prepared for the afterlife both morally and intellectually will be rewarded more greatly; however, all reward is through the grace of God. Thomas insists beatitude will be conferred according to merit, and will render the person better able to conceive the divine.
Parva NaturaliaSense and SensibiliaOn MemoryOn SleepOn DreamsOn Divination in SleepOn Length and Shortness of LifeOn Youth, Old Age, Life and Death, and Respiration
[M]en who are in authority over others do no wrong when they reward the good and punish the evil.
Aquinas asserts that Christians have a duty to distribute with provision to the poorest of society.[94]
Thomas Aquinas belonged to the Dominican Order (formally Ordo Praedicatorum, the Order of Preachers) who began as an order dedicated to the conversion of the Albigensians and other heterodox factions, at first by peaceful means; later the Albigensians were dealt with by means of the Albigensian Crusade. In the Summa Theologiae, he wrote:
^ a b Burr, G. L. (1943).L. O. Gibbons (ed.). Selected Writings. New York. pp. 173–74. Original essay (1890) available here [1] Archived 25 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine.
It is traditionally held that on one occasion, in 1273, at the Dominican convent of Naples in the chapel of Saint Nicholas,[65] after Matins, Thomas lingered and was seen by the sacristan Domenic of Caserta to be levitating in prayer with tears before an icon of the crucified Christ. Christ said to Thomas, "You have written well of me, Thomas. What reward would you have for your labor?" Thomas responded, "Nothing but you, Lord."[66][67]
Weigel, George (2001). The Truth of Catholicism. New York: HarperCollins. p. 9. ISBN 0-06-621330-4.
^ Langston, Douglas (5 February 2015).Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University – via stanford.edu.
Thomas Aquinas was a theologian and a Scholastic philosopher.[90] However, he never considered himself a philosopher, and criticized philosophers, whom he saw as pagans, for always "falling short of the true and proper wisdom to be found in Christian revelation."[91] With this in mind, Thomas did have respect for Aristotle, so much so that in the Summa, he often cites Aristotle simply as "the Philosopher", a designation frequently used at that time. However, Thomas "never compromised Christian doctrine by bringing it into line with current Aristotelianism; rather, he modified and corrected the latter whenever it clashed with Christian belief."[92]
With regard to heretics two points must be observed: one, on their own side; the other, on the side of the Church. On their own side there is the sin, whereby they deserve not only to be separated from the Church by excommunication, but also to be severed from the world by death. For it is a much graver matter to corrupt the faith that quickens the soul, than to forge money, which supports temporal life. Wherefore if forgers of money and other evil-doers are forthwith condemned to death by the secular authority, much more reason is there for heretics, as soon as they are convicted of heresy, to be not only excommunicated but even put to death.On the part of the Church, however, there is mercy, which looks to the conversion of the wanderer, wherefore she condemns not at once, but "after the first and second admonition", as the Apostle directs: after that, if he is yet stubborn, the Church no longer hoping for his conversion, looks to the salvation of others, by excommunicating him and separating him from the Church, and furthermore delivers him to the secular tribunal to be exterminated thereby from the world by death.[176]
Grabmann, Martin (1963). Thomas Aquinas: His Personality and Thought. Translated by Virgil Michel. Russell and Russell.
Thomas made a distinction between a good man and a good citizen, which was important to the development of libertarian theory. That indicates, in the eyes of atheist libertarian writer George H. Smith, that the sphere of individual autonomy was one which the state could not interfere with.[122]
Aquinas was aware that the Albigensians and the Waldensians challenged moral precepts concerning marriage and ownership of private property and that challenges could ultimately be resolved only by logical arguments based on self-evident norms. He accordingly argued, in the Summa Theologiae, that just as the first principle of demonstration is the self-evident principle of noncontradiction ("the same thing cannot be affirmed and denied at the same time"), the first principle of action is the self-evident Bonum precept ("good is to be done and pursued and evil avoided").[101]
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 11, Article 4". Summa Theologica. Vol. II–II.
Online Galleries, History of Science Collections, University of Oklahoma Libraries
Pope Pius XII 1942 consecration to the Immaculate Heart of Mary
Davies, Brian (1993). The Thought of Thomas Aquinas. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-826753-3.
Thomas Aquinas. "The Existence of God (Prima Pars, Q. 2)". Summa Theologica – via newadvent.org.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 62, Article 2". Summa Theologica. Retrieved 2 February 2012 – via ccel.org.
According to Thomas "... all acts of virtue are prescribed by the natural law: since each one's reason naturally dictates to him to act virtuously. But if we speak of virtuous acts, considered in themselves, i.e., in their proper species, thus not all virtuous acts are prescribed by the natural law: for many things are done virtuously, to which nature does not incline at first; but that, through the inquiry of reason, have been found by men to be conducive to well living." Therefore, we must determine if we are speaking of virtuous acts as under the aspect of virtuous or as an act in its species.[108]
"Notable Lutheran Saints". Resurrectionpeople.org. Archived from the original on 16 May 2019. Retrieved 16 July 2019.
The History of Philosophy, Medieval Philosophy, from 500 to 1500 CE. 2011., Edited by Brian Duignan, Britannica Educational Publishing, New York, ISBN 978-1-61530-244-4; "Age of the Schoolmen"
The issue was discussed in a papal bull by Pope Benedict XIV (1747) where both schools were addressed. The pope noted that the position of Aquinas had been more widely held among theologians and canon lawyers, than that of John Duns Scotus.[180]
[De rationibus fidei] De Rationibus Fidei/Reasons for the Faith against Muslim Objections ...
"A Tale of Two Wonderworkers: St. Nicholas of Myra in the Writings and Life of St. Thomas Aquinas"
It is plain, therefore, from what has been said, that a king is one who rules the people of one city or province, and rules them for the common good.
In reality, Thomas was deeply disturbed by the spread of Averroism and was angered when he discovered Siger of Brabant teaching Averroistic interpretations of Aristotle to Parisian students.[60] On 10 December 1270, the Bishop of Paris, Étienne Tempier, issued an edict condemning thirteen Aristotelian and Averroistic propositions as heretical and excommunicating anyone who continued to support them.[61] Many in the ecclesiastical community, the so-called Augustinians, were fearful that this introduction of Aristotelianism and the more extreme Averroism might somehow contaminate the purity of the Christian faith. In what appears to be an attempt to counteract the growing fear of Aristotelian thought, Thomas conducted a series of disputations between 1270 and 1272: De virtutibus in communi (On Virtues in General), De virtutibus cardinalibus (On Cardinal Virtues), and De spe (On Hope).[62]
In the Summa Theologica Thomas begins his discussion of Jesus Christ by recounting the biblical story of Adam and Eve and by describing the negative effects of original sin. The purpose of Christ's Incarnation was to restore human nature by removing the contamination of sin, which humans cannot do by themselves. "Divine Wisdom judged it fitting that God should become man, so that thus one and the same person would be able both to restore man and to offer satisfaction."[164] Thomas argued in favor of the satisfaction view of atonement; that is, that Jesus Christ died "to satisfy for the whole human race, which was sentenced to die on account of sin."[165]
See Pius XI, Studiorum Ducem 11 (29 June 1923), AAS, XV ("non-modo Angelicum, sed etiam Communem seu Universalem Ecclesiae Doctorem"). The title Doctor Communis dates to the fourteenth century; the title Doctor Angelicus dates to the fifteenth century, see Walz, Xenia Thomistica, III, p. 164 n. 4. Tolomeo da Lucca writes in Historia Ecclesiastica (1317): "This man is supreme among modern teachers of philosophy and theology, and indeed in every subject. And such is the common view and opinion, so that nowadays in the University of Paris they call him the Doctor Communis because of the outstanding clarity of his teaching." Historia Eccles. xxiii, c. 9.
Dante. "Parad. x. 99". Divine Comedy. Archived from the original on 26 July 2011. Retrieved 17 January 2010 – via Divinecomedy.org.
^ Adamson, Peter (2013). "From the necessary existent to God". In Adamson, Peter (ed.). Interpreting Avicenna: Critical Essays. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521190732.
^ "First Council of Nicaea – 325 AD". 20 May 325 – via papalencyclicals.net.
Misquoting Muhammad: The Challenge and Choices of Interpreting the Prophet's Legacy
^ Aquinas, Thomas (1920). "Question 75, Article 1". Summa Theologiae of St. Thomas Aquinas. Translated by The Fathers of the English Dominican Province (Second and Revised ed.).
Since the generation of one thing is the corruption of another, it was not incompatible with the first formation of things, that from the corruption of the less perfect the more perfect should be generated. Hence animals generated from the corruption of inanimate things, or of plants, may have been generated then.[146]
[...] for the preservation of concord among men it is necessary that punishments be inflicted on the wicked. Therefore, to punish the wicked is not in itself evil.
Thomistic Philosophy—Inspired by the enduring thought of Saint Thomas Aquinas
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 11, Article 3". Summa Theologica. Vol. II–II.
^ Aquinas, Thomas. Summa Theologica I-II q. 94, a. 2.
^ Liturgy of the Hours Volume III, Proper of Saints, 28 January.
Thomas Aquinas believed "that for the knowledge of any truth whatsoever man needs divine help, that the intellect may be moved by God to its act."[99] However, he believed that human beings have the natural capacity to know many things without special divine revelation, even though such revelation occurs from time to time, "especially in regard to such (truths) as pertain to faith."[100] But this is the light that is given to man by God according to man's nature: "Now every form bestowed on created things by God has power for a determined act[uality], which it can bring about in proportion to its own proper endowment; and beyond which it is powerless, except by a superadded form, as water can only heat when heated by the fire. And thus the human understanding has a form, viz. intelligible light, which of itself is sufficient for knowing certain intelligible things, viz. those we can come to know through the senses."[100]
First, war must occur for a good and just purpose rather than the pursuit of wealth or power.
Concerning the Human Law, Thomas concludes, "... that just as, in the speculative reason, from naturally known indemonstrable principles, we draw the conclusions of the various sciences, the knowledge of which is not imparted to us by nature, but acquired by the efforts of reason, so to it is from the precepts of the natural law, as from general and indemonstrable principles, that human reason needs to proceed to the more particular determination of certain matters. These particular determinations, devised by human reason, are called human laws, provided the other essential conditions of law be observed ..." Human law is positive law: the natural law applied by governments to societies.[108]
"The unity or plurality in God (Prima Pars, Q. 31)"
^ a b Gilson, Etienne, The Christian Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas, University of Notre Dame Press, 1994, pp. 84–95
Mullady, Brian (2006). "The Angelic Doctor – Thomas Aquinas". Archived from the original on 7 October 2008. Retrieved 11 June 2011.
^ Aquinas, Thomas. Summa Theologica, I-II q. 94, a. 2c.
^ "Aquinatis: Vida de Santo Tomás de Aquino". 22 May 2008. {{cite web}}: Check |url= value (help)
Gradation: If we can notice a gradation in things in the sense that some things are more hot, good, etc., there must be a superlative that is the truest and noblest thing, and so most fully existing. This then, we call God.[b]
In This Light Which Gives Light: A History of the College of St. Albert the Great (1930–1980)
^ "1225-1274- Thomas Aquinas, Sanctus\ – Operum Omnium Conspectus seu 'Index of available Writings'". documentacatholicaomnia.eu.
Thomas's theology had begun its rise to prestige. Two centuries later, in 1567, Pope Pius V proclaimed St. Thomas Aquinas a Doctor of the Church and ranked his feast with those of the four great Latin fathers: Ambrose, Augustine of Hippo, Jerome and Gregory.[84] At the Council of Trent, Thomas had the honor of having his Summa Theologiae placed on the altar alongside the Bible and the Decretals.[80][85]
In short "Christ had a real body of the same nature of ours, a true rational soul, and, together with these, perfect Deity". Thus, there is both unity (in his one hypostasis) and composition (in his two natures, human and Divine) in Christ.[172]
Unlike many currents in the Catholic Church of the time,[15] Thomas embraced several ideas put forward by Aristotle—whom he called "the Philosopher"—and attempted to synthesize Aristotelian philosophy with the principles of Christianity.[16]
Thomas remained at the studium at Santa Sabina from 1265 until he was called back to Paris in 1268 for a second teaching regency.[53] With his departure for Paris in 1268 and the passage of time, the pedagogical activities of the studium provinciale at Santa Sabina were divided between two campuses. A new convent of the Order at the Church of Santa Maria sopra Minerva began in 1255 as a community for women converts but grew rapidly in size and importance after being given over to the Dominicans friars in 1275.[49] In 1288, the theology component of the provincial curriculum for the education of the friars was relocated from the Santa Sabina studium provinciale to the studium conventuale at Santa Maria sopra Minerva, which was redesignated as a studium particularis theologiae.[57] This studium was transformed in the 16th century into the College of Saint Thomas (Latin: Collegium Divi Thomæ). In the 20th century, the college was relocated to the convent of Saints Dominic and Sixtus and was transformed into the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, Angelicum.
Preventive war against a tyrant who is about to attack.
Articles incorporating a citation from the 1913 Catholic Encyclopedia with Wikisource reference
^ Norman Geisler, Thomas Aquinas: An Evangelical Appraisal, Wipf and Stock Publishers, 2003, p. 26.
The critical edition of Thomas's works is the ongoing edition commissioned by Pope Leo XIII (1882–1903), the so-called Leonine Edition. Most of his major works have now been edited: the Summa Theologiae in nine volumes during 1888–1906, the Summa contra Gentiles in three volumes during 1918–1930.
Aquinas, Thomas (1981). Summa Theologica. New York: English Dominican Fathers. pp. II–II, Q77, A2.
^ "The Calendar". The Church of England. Retrieved 27 March 2021.
Collison, Diane, and Kathryn Plant. Fifty Major Philosophers. 2nd ed. New York: Routledge, 2006.
Article on Thomism by the Jacques Maritain Center of Notre Dame University
Motion: Some things undoubtedly move, though cannot cause their own motion. Since, as Thomas believed, there can be no infinite chain of causes of motion, there must be a First Mover not moved by anything else, and this is what everyone understands by God.
By 1244, seeing that all her attempts to dissuade Thomas had failed, Theodora sought to save the family's dignity, arranging for Thomas to escape at night through his window. In her mind, a secret escape from detention was less damaging than an open surrender to the Dominicans. Thomas was sent first to Naples and then to Rome to meet Johannes von Wildeshausen, the Master General of the Dominican Order.[36]
Grant, Edward (1996). The Foundations of Modern Science in the Middle Ages: Their Religious, Institutional, and Intellectual Contexts. Cambridge University Press. pp. 81–82. ISBN 0-521-56762-9.
[Compendium theologiae] Thomas Aquinas (2002). Aquinas's Shorter Summa. Manchester, New Hampshire: Sophia Institute Press. ISBN 1-928832-43-1.
God is one, without diversification within God's self. The unity of God is such that God's essence is the same as God's existence. In Thomas's words, "in itself the proposition 'God exists' is necessarily true, for in it subject and predicate are the same."[158]
St. Thomas Aquinas (PDF) biography from Fr. Alban Butler's Lives of the Saints
This page was last edited on 15 March 2023, at 21:12 (UTC).
^ Gilson, Etienne, The Christian Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas, University of Notre Dame Press, 1994
In the spring of 1256, Thomas was appointed regent master in theology at Paris and one of his first works upon assuming this office was Contra impugnantes Dei cultum et religionem (Against Those Who Assail the Worship of God and Religion), defending the mendicant orders, which had come under attack by William of Saint-Amour.[41] During his tenure from 1256 to 1259, Thomas wrote numerous works, including: Questiones disputatae de veritate (Disputed Questions on Truth), a collection of twenty-nine disputed questions on aspects of faith and the human condition[42] prepared for the public university debates he presided over during Lent and Advent;[43] Quaestiones quodlibetales (Quodlibetal Questions), a collection of his responses to questions posed to him by the academic audience;[42] and both Expositio super librum Boethii De trinitate (Commentary on Boethius's De trinitate) and Expositio super librum Boethii De hebdomadibus (Commentary on Boethius's De hebdomadibus), commentaries on the works of 6th-century Roman philosopher Boethius.[44] By the end of his regency, Thomas was working on one of his most famous works, Summa contra Gentiles.[45]
Henry Adams's Mont Saint Michel and Chartres ends with a culminating chapter on Thomas, in which Adams calls Thomas an "artist" and constructs an extensive analogy between the design of Thomas's "Church Intellectual" and that of the gothic cathedrals of that period. Erwin Panofsky later would echo these views in Gothic Architecture and Scholasticism (1951).[citation needed]
Umberto, Eco (25 October 1988). The Aesthetics of Thomas Aquinas. Translated by Bredin, Hugh. Harvard University Press. ISBN 9780674006768.
In his encyclical of 4 August 1879, Aeterni Patris, Pope Leo XIII stated that Thomas Aquinas's theology was a definitive exposition of Catholic doctrine. Thus, he directed the clergy to take the teachings of Thomas as the basis of their theological positions. Leo XIII also decreed that all Catholic seminaries and universities must teach Thomas's doctrines, and where Thomas did not speak on a topic, the teachers were "urged to teach conclusions that were reconcilable with his thinking." In 1880, Saint Thomas Aquinas was declared patron of all Catholic educational establishments.[84]
^ "The Origins of Social Justice: Taparelli d'Azeglio". 8 October 2014.
"The Red Herring of Usury". Catholic Answers. Retrieved 30 August 2022.
In the Divine Comedy, Dante sees the glorified soul of Thomas in the Heaven of the Sun with the other great exemplars of religious wisdom.[81] Dante asserts that Thomas died by poisoning, on the order of Charles of Anjou;[82] Villani cites this belief,[83] and the Anonimo Fiorentino describes the crime and its motive. But the historian Ludovico Antonio Muratori reproduces the account made by one of Thomas's friends, and this version of the story gives no hint of foul play.[84]
Thomas also greatly influenced Catholic understandings of mortal and venial sins.
"St. Thomas Aquinas | Biography, Philosophy, & Facts". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 20 January 2020.
Online Galleries, History of Science Collections, University of Oklahoma Libraries Archived 16 May 2012 at the Wayback Machine—high resolution images of works by Thomas Aquinas in JPEG and TIFF formats
Following St. Augustine of Hippo, Thomas defines sin as "a word, deed, or desire, contrary to the eternal law."[159] It is important to note the analogous nature of law in Thomas's legal philosophy. Natural law is an instance or instantiation of eternal law. Because natural law is what human beings determine according to their own nature (as rational beings), disobeying reason is disobeying natural law and eternal law. Thus eternal law is logically prior to reception of either "natural law" (that determined by reason) or "divine law" (that found in the Old and New Testaments). In other words, God's will extends to both reason and revelation. Sin is abrogating either one's own reason, on the one hand, or revelation on the other, and is synonymous with "evil" (privation of good, or privatio boni[160]). Thomas, like all Scholastics, generally argued that the findings of reason and data of revelation cannot conflict, so both are a guide to God's will for human beings.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 71, Article 6". Summa Theologica. Vol. II–I. Retrieved 17 January 2010 – via newadvent.org.
^ Thomas Aquinas. "Question 55, Reply 1". Summa Theologica. Retrieved 2 February 2012 – via ccel.org.
Hampden, Renn Dickson (1848). The Life of Thomas Aquinas: A Dissertation of the Scholastic Philosophy of the Middle Ages. Encyclopædia Metropolitana. London: John J. Griffin & Co.
Pojman, Louis (1995). Ethics: Discovering Right and Wrong. Belmont, California: Wadsworth Publishing Company. ISBN 0-534-56138-1.
On his way to the council, riding on a donkey along the Appian Way,[73] he struck his head on the branch of a fallen tree and became seriously ill again. He was then quickly escorted to Monte Cassino to convalesce.[72] After resting for a while, he set out again, but stopped at the Cistercian Fossanova Abbey after again falling ill.[75] The monks nursed him for several days,[76] and as he received his last rites he prayed: "I have written and taught much about this very holy Body, and about the other sacraments in the faith of Christ, and about the Holy Roman Church, to whose correction I expose and submit everything I have written."[77] He died on 7 March 1274[75] while giving commentary on the Song of Songs.[78]
Thomas Aquinas addressed most economic questions within the framework of justice, which he contended was the highest of the moral virtues.[129] He says that justice is "a habit whereby man renders to each his due by a constant and perpetual will."[130] He argued that this concept of justice has its roots in natural law. Joseph Schumpeter, in his History of Economic Analysis, concluded that "All the economic questions put together matters less to him than did the smallest point of theological or philosophical doctrine, and it is only where economic phenomena raise questions of moral theology that he touches upon them at all."[131]
Healy, Nicholas M. (2003). Thomas Aquinas: Theologian of the Christian Life. Ashgate. ISBN 0-7546-1472-7.
See Summa Theologiae I, q. 44, a. 2 (Latin and English), and q. 45, a. 1 (Latin and English)
^ Hankey, Wayne (2013). The Routledge Companion to Philosophy of Religion (Second ed.). CSU East Bay: Routledge. pp. 134–35. ISBN 978-0-415-78295-1.
^ Honderich, Ted, ed. (1995). "Animals: Peter Singer". The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. Oxford. pp. 35–36 – via utilitarian.net.
^ Dante. "Parad. x. 99". Divine Comedy. Archived from the original on 26 July 2011. Retrieved 17 January 2010 – via Divinecomedy.org.
"Question 38, Article 2". Summa theologica Supplement. Whether a spell can be in impediment to marriage. Note this Supplement was written or compiled by others after Thomas's death.
To so focus on lovingly willing good is to focus natural law on acting virtuously. In his Summa Theologiae, Aquinas wrote:
As a Catholic Thomas believed that God is the "maker of heaven and earth, of all that is visible and invisible." But he thought that this fact can be proved by natural reason; indeed, in showing that it is necessary that any existent being has been created by God, he uses only philosophical arguments, based on his metaphysics of participation.[143] He also maintains that God creates ex nihilo, from nothing, that is He does not make use of any preexisting matter.[144] On the other hand, Aquinas thought that the fact that the world started to exist by God's creation and is not eternal is only known to us by faith; it cannot be proved by natural reason.[145]
Walz, Angelus (4 December 1930). "Compendium historiae Ordinis Praedicatorum [microform]". Romae : Herder – via Internet Archive.
Resurrection appears to require dualism, which Thomas rejects. Yet Thomas believes the soul persists after the death and corruption of the body, and is capable of existence, separated from the body between the time of death and the resurrection of the flesh. Thomas believes in a different sort of dualism, one guided by Christian scripture. Thomas knows that human beings are essentially physical, but physicality has a spirit capable of returning to God after life.[190] For Thomas, the rewards and punishment of the afterlife are not only spiritual. Because of this, resurrection is an important part of his philosophy on the soul. The human is fulfilled and complete in the body, so the hereafter must take place with souls enmattered in resurrected bodies. In addition to spiritual reward, humans can expect to enjoy material and physical blessings. Because Thomas's soul requires a body for its actions, during the afterlife, the soul will also be punished or rewarded in corporeal existence.
Some modern ethicists within (notably Alasdair MacIntyre) and outside (notably Philippa Foot) the Catholic Churchhave recently commented on the possible use of Thomas's virtue ethics as a way of avoiding utilitarianism or Kantian "sense of duty" (called deontology).[citation needed] Through the work of twentieth-century philosophers such as Elizabeth Anscombe (especially in her book Intention), Thomas's principle of double effect specifically and his theory of intentional activity generally have been influential.[citation needed]
Under the canon Episcopi, church doctrine held that witchcraft was not possible and any practitioners of sorcery were deluded and their acts an illusion. Thomas Aquinas was instrumental in developing a new doctrine that included the belief in the real power of witches.[disputed– discuss] This was a departure from the teachings of his master Albertus Magnus whose doctrine was based in the Episcopi.[186] The famous 15th-century witch-hunter's manual, the Malleus Maleficarum, also written by a member of the Dominican Order, begins by quoting Thomas Aquinas ("Commentary on Pronouncements" Sent.4.34.I.Co.) refuting[disputed– discuss] the Episcopi and goes on to cite Thomas Aquinas over a hundred times.[187] Promoters of the witch hunts that followed often quoted Thomas more than any other source.[186]
^ Blair, Peter. "Reason and Faith: The Thought of Thomas AquinasOxford". The Dartmouth Apologia. Archived from the original on 13 September 2013. Retrieved 18 December 2013.
The response must be commensurate with the evil; more violence than is strictly necessary would be unjust.
Statues of Madonna, Saint Dominic and Thomas Aquinas, Charles Bridge
^ See Pius XI, Studiorum Ducem 11 (29 June 1923), AAS, XV ("non-modo Angelicum, sed etiam Communem seu Universalem Ecclesiae Doctorem"). The title Doctor Communis dates to the fourteenth century; the title Doctor Angelicus dates to the fifteenth century, see Walz, Xenia Thomistica, III, p. 164 n. 4. Tolomeo da Lucca writes in Historia Ecclesiastica (1317): "This man is supreme among modern teachers of philosophy and theology, and indeed in every subject. And such is the common view and opinion, so that nowadays in the University of Paris they call him the Doctor Communis because of the outstanding clarity of his teaching." Historia Eccles. xxiii, c. 9.
Thomas contributed to economic thought as an aspect of ethics and justice. He dealt with the concept of a just price, normally its market price or a regulated price sufficient to cover seller costs of production. He argued it was immoral for sellers to raise their prices simply because buyers were in pressing need for a product.[120][121]
^ Nureev Rustem, M. (1 March 2015). "Doctrine of "Fair Price" by Thomas Aquinas: background, laws of development and specific interpretation". Journal of Institutional Studies. 7 (1): 006–024. doi:10.17835/2076-6297.2015.7.1.006-024. ISSN 2076-6297. OCLC 8773558345.
In 1259, Thomas completed his first regency at the studium generale and left Paris so that others in his order could gain this teaching experience. He returned to Naples where he was appointed as general preacher by the provincial chapter of 29 September 1260. In September 1261 he was called to Orvieto as conventual lector, where he was responsible for the pastoral formation of the friars unable to attend a studium generale. In Orvieto, Thomas completed his Summa contra Gentiles, wrote the Catena aurea (The Golden Chain),[46] and produced works for Pope Urban IV such as the liturgy for the newly created feast of Corpus Christi and the Contra errores graecorum (Against the Errors of the Greeks).[45] Some of the hymns that Thomas wrote for the feast of Corpus Christi are still sung today, such as the Pange lingua (whose penultimate verse is the famous Tantum ergo), and Panis angelicus. Modern scholarship has confirmed that Thomas was indeed the author of these texts, a point that some had contested.[47]
Virtue denotes a certain perfection of a power. Now a thing's perfection is considered chiefly in regard to its end. But the end of power is act. Wherefore power is said to be perfect, according as it is determinate to its act.[105]
^ Aquinas, Thomas (1920). "Question 75, Article 3". Summa Theologiae of St. Thomas Aquinas. Translated by The Fathers of the English Dominican Province (Second and Revised ed.).
^ See Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theologiae I, q. 44, a. 1, co (Latin and English)
Thomas Aquinas was most likely born in the castle of Roccasecca, near Aquino, controlled at that time by the Kingdom of Sicily (in present-day Lazio, Italy), c. 1225,[21] According to some authors,[who?] he was born in the castle of his father, Landulf of Aquino. He was born to the most powerful branch of the family, and Landulf of Aquino was a man of means. As a knight in the service of Emperor Frederick II, Landulf of Aquino held the title miles.[22] Thomas's mother, Theodora, belonged to the Rossi branch of the Neapolitan Caracciolo family.[23] Landulf's brother Sinibald was abbot of Monte Cassino, the oldest Benedictine monastery. While the rest of the family's sons pursued military careers,[24] the family intended for Thomas to follow his uncle into the abbacy;[25] this would have been a normal career path for a younger son of southern Italian nobility.[26]
^ "SUMMA THEOLOGIAE: The parts of Justice (Secunda Secundae Partis, Q. 61)". www.newadvent.org. Retrieved 30 August 2022.
Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style.
Vita D. Thomae Aquinatis Archived 20 November 2018 at the Wayback Machine, a pictorial life of Aquinas from a manuscript by Otto van Veen (1610)
Furthermore, just as a physician looks to health as the end in his work, and health consists in the orderly concord of humors, so, too, the ruler of a state intends peace in his work, and peace consists in "the ordered concord of citizens." Now, the physician quite properly and beneficially cuts off a diseased organ if the corruption of the body is threatened because of it. Therefore, the ruler of a state executes pestiferous men justly and sinlessly in order that the peace of the state may not be disrupted.
While it would be contradictory to speak of a "just schism", a "just brawling" or a "just sedition", the word "war" permits sub-classification into good and bad kinds. Thomas Aquinas, centuries after Augustine of Hippo, used the authority of Augustine's arguments in an attempt to define the conditions under which a war could be just.[148] He laid these out in his historic work, Summa Theologica:
Mulchahey, Marian Michèle (1998). "First the Bow is Bent in Study-- ": Dominican Education Before 1350. Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies. ISBN 978-0-88844-132-4.
^ McBride, William Leon (1997). The Development and Meaning of Twentieth-century Existentialism. Taylor and Francis. p. 131. ISBN 0-8153-2491-X.
Thomas Aquinas. "Question 62, Article 2". Summa Theologica. Retrieved 2 February 2012 – via ccel.org.
^ See Summa Theologiae I, q. 46, aa. 1-2 (Latin and English)
"Summa, I–II, Q109a1". Retrieved 25 March 2012 – via ccel.org.
"Honor Cultures and Violence – Criminology – Oxford Bibliographies – obo". Retrieved 15 November 2017.
Defiled Trades and Social Outcasts – Honor and Ritual Pollution in Early Modern Germany
^ Lance Banning (1980). The Jeffersonian Persuasion: Evolution of a Party Ideology. Cornell UP. p. 295. ISBN 0801492009.
Cossen, William S. "Blood, honor, reform, and God: anti-dueling associations and moral reform in the Old South." American Nineteenth Century History 19.1 (2018): 23–45.
^ Walker, William A. (1961). "Martial Sons: Tennessee Enthusiasm for the War of 1812". Tennessee Historical Quarterly. 20 (1): 20.
Honour as a code of behaviour defines the duties of an individual within a social group.Margaret Visser observes that in an honour-based society "a person is what he or she is in the eyes of other people".[1] A code of honour differs from a legal code, also socially defined and concerned with justice, in that honour remains implicit rather than explicit and objectified.
In the early medieval period, a lord's or lady's honour was the group of manors or lands he or she held. "The word was first used indicating an estate which gave its holder dignity and status."[3]For a person to say "on my honour" was not just an affirmation of his or her integrity and rank, but the veracity behind that phrase meant he or she was willing to offer up estates as pledge and guarantee.
Bowman, James. Honor: A History. Encounter Books, 2006. ISBN 1-59403-142-8. Cf. excerpts from writings of James Bowman on Honor.
Samuel Johnson, in his A Dictionary of the English Language (1755), defined honour as having several senses, the first of which was "nobility of soul, magnanimity, and a scorn of meanness".This sort of honour derives from the perceived virtuous conduct and personal integrity of the person endowed with it.On the other hand, Johnson also defined honour in relationship to "reputation" and "fame"; to "privileges of rank or birth", and as "respect" of the kind which "places an individual socially and determines his right to precedence". This sort of honour is often not so much a function of moral or ethical excellence, as it is a consequence of power. Finally, with respect to sexuality, honour has traditionally been associated with (or identical to) "chastity" or "virginity", or in case of married men and women, "fidelity". Some have argued that honour should be seen more as a rhetoric, or set of possible actions, than as a code.
Pietro S. Nivola; Peter J. Kastor (2012). What So Proudly We Hailed: Essays on the Contemporary Meaning of the War of 1812. Brookings Institution Press. pp. 58–59. ISBN 978-0815724155.
^ Bertram.Wyatt-Brown, Southern honor: Ethics and behavior in the Old South (Oxford University Press, 2007)
Pinker, Steven. The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature. New York: Penguin Putnam, 2002. ISBN 0-670-03151-8.
^ Dafoe, Allan; Renshon, Jonathan; Huth, Paul (11 May 2014). "Reputation and Status as Motives for War". Annual Review of Political Science. 17 (1): 371–393. doi:10.1146/annurev-polisci-071112-213421. ISSN 1094-2939.
"It takes a southerner to start (and win) a war - The Boston Globe". BostonGlobe.com. Retrieved 22 March 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Ignatieff, Michael (1997). The Warrior's Honour: Ethnic War and the Modern Conscience. New York, New York: Henry Holt and Co. pp. paraphrased from whole book.
^ Nowak, Andrzej; Gelfand, Michele J.; Borkowski, Wojciech; Cohen, Dov; Hernandez, Ivan (25 November 2015). "The Evolutionary Basis of Honor Cultures". Psychological Science. 27 (1): 12–24. doi:10.1177/0956797615602860. ISSN 0956-7976. PMID 26607976. S2CID 18564200.
Martin Kaufman, "War Sentiment in Western Pennsylvania: 1812." Pennsylvania History (1964): 436–448.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Doris, Jim (5 January 2003). "A conversation with Margaret Visser: diagnosing that feeling of helplessness". Catholic New Times. Retrieved 10 March 2011.
4War of 1812											Toggle War of 1812 subsection																					4.1Predisposition in the United States of America
Scouting For Boys: A Handbook for Instruction in Good Citizenship Through Woodcraft
One way that honour functions is as a major factor of reputation. In a system where there is no court that will authorise the use of force to guarantee the execution of contracts, an honourable reputation is very valuable to promote trust among transaction partners.To dishonour an agreement could be economically ruinous, because all future potential transaction partners might stop trusting the party not to lie, steal their money or goods, not repay debts, mistreat the children they marry off, have children with other people, abandon their children, or fail to provide aid when needed.A dishonourable person might be shunned by the community as a way to punish bad behaviour and create an incentive for others to maintain their honour.
"Honor Cultures and Violence – Criminology – Oxford Bibliographies – obo"
Honour in the case of sexuality frequently relates, historically, to fidelity: preservation of "honour" equates primarily to maintenance of the virginity of singles and to the exclusive monogamy of the remainder of the population. Further conceptions of this type of honour vary widely between cultures; some cultures regard honour killings of (mostly female) members of one's own family as justified if the individuals have "defiled the family's honour" by marrying against the family's wishes, usually for reasons such as refusing to enter an arranged marriage, having sex outside marriage, dressing in ways which are deemed inappropriate, or engaging in homosexual relations or even by becoming the victims of rape. Western observers generally see these honour killings as a way of men using the culture of honour to control female sexuality.[7]
"Kollektivistiska strukturer | Hedersförtryck.se". County administrative board of Ostrogothia (Länsstyrelsen Östergötland) (in Swedish). Archived from the original on 15 November 2017. Retrieved 15 November 2017.
If one's honour is questioned, it can thus be important to disprove any false accusations or slander.In some cultures, the practice of dueling has arisen as a means to settle such disputes firmly, though by physical dominance in force or skill rather than by objective consideration of evidence and facts.
^ Barlow, William (1969). "The Coming of the War of 1812 in Michigan Territory". Michigan History. 53: 91–107.
^ "Honor Cultures and Violence – Criminology – Oxford Bibliographies – obo". Retrieved 15 November 2017.
^ a b Richard Nisbett. Culture of Honor. 1996. ISBN 0-8133-1992-7
Victor Sapio, Pennsylvania and the War of 1812 (University Press of Kentucky, 2015)
^ Bradford Perkins, The causes of the War of 1812: National honor or national interest? (1962).
Cultures of honour are often conservative, encoding pre-modern traditional family values and duties.In some cases these values clash with those of post-sexual revolution and egalitarian societies.Add to this the prohibition against vigilante or individual justice-taking, cultures of law sometimes consider practices in honour cultures to be unethical or a violation of the legal concept of human rights.[9][10][11][12]
What So Proudly We Hailed: Essays on the Contemporary Meaning of the War of 1812
Moral Minds: How nature designed our universal sense of right and wrong
Bradford Perkins, The causes of the War of 1812: National honor or national interest? (1962).
^ Barlow, William; Powell, David O. (1978). "Congressman Ezekiel Bacon of Massachusetts and the Coming of the War of 1812". Historical Journal of Massachusetts. 6 (2): 28.
a lack of sufficient law-enforcement (such as in geographically remote regions)
^ a b "Kollektivistiska strukturer | Hedersförtryck.se". County administrative board of Ostrogothia (Länsstyrelsen Östergötland) (in Swedish). Archived from the original on 15 November 2017. Retrieved 15 November 2017.
This page was last edited on 6 March 2023, at 03:23 (UTC).
Nyheter, SVT. "Polisens utredare utbildades om hederskulturer". SVT Nyheter (in Swedish). Retrieved 15 November 2017.
From the viewpoint of anthropologists, cultures of honour typically appear among nomadic peoples and among herdsmen who carry their most valuable property with them and risk having it stolen, without having recourse to law enforcement or to government. Due to the lack of strong institutions, cultivating a reputation for swift and disproportionate revenge increases the safety of one's person and property against aggressive actors.[18] Thinkers ranging from Plato to Montesquieu have remarked upon the mindset needed for a culture of honour.
^ A Dictionary of Medieval Terms and Phrases, Christopher Corédon, 2004, D.S. Brewer, Cambridge, ISBN 1-84384-023-5
Bertram.Wyatt-Brown, Southern honor: Ethics and behavior in the Old South (Oxford University Press, 2007)
Walker, William A. (1961). "Martial Sons: Tennessee Enthusiasm for the War of 1812". Tennessee Historical Quarterly. 20 (1): 20.
The concept of personal honour can be extended to family honour, which strengthens the incentives to follow social norms in two ways. First, the consequences of dishonourable actions (such as suicide or attempted robbery that results in death) outlive the perpetrator, and negatively affect family members they presumably care about.Second, when one member of the family misbehaves, other members of the family are in the position to and are incentivised to strongly enforce the community norms.
Risjord, Norman K. (1961). "1812: Conservatives, War Hawks and the Nation's Honor". William and Mary Quarterly. 1961 (2): 196–210. doi:10.2307/1918543. JSTOR 1918543.
^ Kenneth S. Greenberg, Honor & Slavery: Lies, Duels, Noses, Masks, Dressing as a Woman, Gifts, Strangers, Humanitarianism, Death, Slave Rebellions, the Proslavery Argument, Baseball, Hunting, and Gambling in the Old South (Princeton University Press, 1996)
Nisbett, Richard E., and Dov Cohen. Culture of Honor: The Psychology of Violence in the South. Westview, 1996. ISBN 0-8133-1993-5.
Dafoe, Allan; Caughey, Devin (1 April 2016). "Honor and War". World Politics. 68 (2): 341–381. doi:10.1017/S0043887115000416. ISSN 1086-3338.
Find sources: "Honour" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Nowak, Andrzej; Gelfand, Michele J.; Borkowski, Wojciech; Cohen, Dov; Hernandez, Ivan (25 November 2015). "The Evolutionary Basis of Honor Cultures". Psychological Science. 27 (1): 12–24. doi:10.1177/0956797615602860. ISSN 0956-7976. PMID 26607976. S2CID 18564200.
^ SpencerTucker, Injured Honor: The Chesapeake-Leopard Affair, June 22, 1807(Naval Institute Press, 1996)
Qiblawi, Tamara. "Activists demand end to marriage rape laws". CNN. Retrieved 15 November 2017.
"...dignity abides with him alone / Who, in the silent hour of inward thought, / Can still suspect, and still revere himself...." William Wordsworth, "Yew Tree" http://www.bartleby.com/145/ww119.html.
^ Nyheter, SVT. "Polisens utredare utbildades om hederskulturer". SVT Nyheter (in Swedish). Retrieved 15 November 2017.
According to Richard Nisbett, cultures of honour will often arise when three conditions[19] exist:
^ Martin Kaufman, "War Sentiment in Western Pennsylvania: 1812." Pennsylvania History (1964): 436–448.
^ Dafoe, Allan; Caughey, Devin (1 April 2016). "Honor and War". World Politics. 68 (2): 341–381. doi:10.1017/S0043887115000416. ISSN 1086-3338.
^ "...dignity abides with him alone / Who, in the silent hour of inward thought, / Can still suspect, and still revere himself...." William Wordsworth, "Yew Tree" http://www.bartleby.com/145/ww119.html.
Hauser, Marc. Moral Minds: How nature designed our universal sense of right and wrong. New York: Ecco Press, 2006. ISBN 978-0-06-078070-8.
Various sociologists and anthropologists have contrasted cultures of honour with cultures of law. A culture of law has a body of laws which all members of society must obey, with punishments for transgressors. This requires a society with the structures required to enact and enforce laws. A culture of law incorporates a social contract: members of society give up some aspects of their freedom to defend themselves and retaliate for injuries, on the understanding that society will apprehend and punish transgressors.
situations in which the benefit of theft and crime outweighs the risks
The American Military Tradition: From Colonial Times to the Present
^ Klaus Helkama, et al. "Honor as a value in Finland, Estonia, Italy, Russia, and Switzerland." Group Processes & Intergroup Relations 16#3 (2013): 279–297.
Hein, David. "Learning Responsibility and Honor". Washington Times, 3 July 2008.
SpencerTucker, Injured Honor: The Chesapeake-Leopard Affair, June 22, 1807(Naval Institute Press, 1996)
Historically, cultures of honour exist in places where the herding of animals dominates an economy. In this situation the geography is usually extensive, since the soil cannot support extensive sustained farming and thus large populations; the benefit of stealing animals from other herds is high since it is the main form of wealth; and there is no central law-enforcement or rule of law. However cultures of honour can also appear in places like modern inner-city slums. The three conditions exist here as well: lack of resources (poverty); crime and theft have a high rewards compared to the alternatives (few); and law enforcement is generally lax or corrupt.[19]
Wyatt-Brown, Bertram. Southern Honor: Ethics and Behavior in the Old South (1982), Antebellum United States
Kenneth S. Greenberg, Honor & Slavery: Lies, Duels, Noses, Masks, Dressing as a Woman, Gifts, Strangers, Humanitarianism, Death, Slave Rebellions, the Proslavery Argument, Baseball, Hunting, and Gambling in the Old South (Princeton University Press, 1996)
Barlow, William; Powell, David O. (1978). "Congressman Ezekiel Bacon of Massachusetts and the Coming of the War of 1812". Historical Journal of Massachusetts. 6 (2): 28.
Honour (Commonwealth English) or honor (American English; see spelling differences) is the idea of a bond between an individual and a society as a quality of a person that is both of social teaching and of personal ethos, that manifests itself as a code of conduct, and has various elements such as valour, chivalry, honesty, and compassion. It is an abstract concept entailing a perceived quality of worthiness and respectability that affects both the social standing and the self-evaluation of an individual or institutions such as a family, school, regiment, or nation. Accordingly, individuals (or institutions) are assigned worth and stature based on the harmony of their actions with a specific code of honour, and the moral code of the society at large.
The British showed a respect for American honour. "Some of the strongest praise for America and swiftest recognition of what the young republic had achieved for American honor, prestige, and power came from within British naval circles."[32] Britain refrained from interfering with American maritime interests and ceased with the impressment of American citizens following the war.
Barlow, William R. (1963). "Ohio's Congressmen and the War of 1812". Ohio History. 72: 175–94.
^ Pnina Werbner, "Honor, shame and the politics of sexual embodiment among South Asian Muslims in Britain and beyond: An analysis of debates in the public sphere." International Social Science Review 6#1 (2005): 25–47.
Defiled Trades and Social Outcasts – Honor and Ritual Pollution in Early Modern Germany Archived 3 October 2013 at the Wayback Machine, Cambridge University Press, 2000
Once a culture of honour exists in a society, its members find it difficult to make the transition to a culture of law; this requires that people become willing to back down and refuse to immediately retaliate, and from the viewpoint of the culture of honour, the feeling humiliation makes personal restraint extremely difficult as it reflects weakness and appeasement.
^ Lindberg, Carter (2009). A Brief History of Christianity. Blackwell Brief Histories of Religion. John Wiley & Sons. pp. 79–80. ISBN 9781405148870. Retrieved 30 December 2012. Anselm's understanding of sin posits that sin is an objective deprivation of the honour that belongs to God. The decisive concept of the honour of God reflects Anselm's feudal social world. To deprive a person of his or her honour was a fundamental crime against the social order. Furthermore, such an offence is proportionately magnified according to the status of the person in the hierarchical order [...]
Barlow, William (1969). "The Coming of the War of 1812 in Michigan Territory". Michigan History. 53: 91–107.
Restrepo, Pascual (9 October 2015). "Canada's History of Violence". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 22 May 2016.
^ "Honour killings of girls and women". Amnesty International library. Amnesty International. 31 August 1999. Retrieved 3 December 2013.
Lance Banning (1980). The Jeffersonian Persuasion: Evolution of a Party Ideology. Cornell UP. p. 295. ISBN 0801492009.
Historians have especially examined the culture of honour in the American South.[13][14] Social scientists have looked at specialised subcultures such as South Asian Muslims in Britain.[15]Others have compared multiple modern nations.[16]
^ Barlow, William R. (1963). "Ohio's Congressmen and the War of 1812". Ohio History. 72: 175–94.
Klaus Helkama, et al. "Honor as a value in Finland, Estonia, Italy, Russia, and Switzerland." Group Processes & Intergroup Relations 16#3 (2013): 279–297.
2Cultural difference from law											Toggle Cultural difference from law subsection																					2.1Family honour
A 2016 study suggests that honour culture increases the risk of war. The study found that international conflicts under U.S. presidents who were raised in the South of the country "are shown to be twice as likely to involve uses of force, last on average twice as long, and are three times more likely to end in victory for the United States than disputes under non-Southern presidents. Other characteristics of Southern presidencies do not seem able to account for this pattern of results."[33][34][35]
Lindberg, Carter (2009). A Brief History of Christianity. Blackwell Brief Histories of Religion. John Wiley & Sons. pp. 79–80. ISBN 9781405148870. Retrieved 30 December 2012. Anselm's understanding of sin posits that sin is an objective deprivation of the honour that belongs to God. The decisive concept of the honour of God reflects Anselm's feudal social world. To deprive a person of his or her honour was a fundamental crime against the social order. Furthermore, such an offence is proportionately magnified according to the status of the person in the hierarchical order [...]
^ Pietro S. Nivola; Peter J. Kastor (2012). What So Proudly We Hailed: Essays on the Contemporary Meaning of the War of 1812. Brookings Institution Press. pp. 58–59. ISBN 978-0815724155.
J David Valaik (2007).Carroll, John Martin; Baxter, Colin F. (eds.). The American Military Tradition: From Colonial Times to the Present. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 54. ISBN 978-0-7425-4428-4. Retrieved 26 July 2022. All in all, they fought one of the world's leading powers to a draw, which was formalized in the Treaty of Ghent (1814). In an outpouring of nationalism, the country celebrated the conclusion of the War of 1812 as a victory, highlighted by Andrew Jackson's magnificent stand before New Orleans (1815) and a number of spectacular naval triumphs.
Dafoe, Allan; Renshon, Jonathan; Huth, Paul (11 May 2014). "Reputation and Status as Motives for War". Annual Review of Political Science. 17 (1): 371–393. doi:10.1146/annurev-polisci-071112-213421. ISSN 1094-2939.
^ Risjord, Norman K. (1961). "1812: Conservatives, War Hawks and the Nation's Honor". William and Mary Quarterly. 1961 (2): 196–210. doi:10.2307/1918543. JSTOR 1918543.
An emphasis on the importance of honour exists in such traditional institutions as the military (serving officers may conduct a court of honour) and in organisations with a military ethos, such as Scouting organisations (which also feature "Courts of Honour"[6]).
"A conversation with Margaret Visser: diagnosing that feeling of helplessness"
Pnina Werbner, "Honor, shame and the politics of sexual embodiment among South Asian Muslims in Britain and beyond: An analysis of debates in the public sphere." International Social Science Review 6#1 (2005): 25–47.
In strong honour cultures, those who do not conform may be forced or pressured into conformance and transgressors punished physically or psychologically. The use of violence may be collective in its character, where many relatives act together.[9] The most extreme form of punishment is honour killing.Dueling and vengeance at a family level can result in a sustained feud.
Honour-based cultures are also known as honour-shame cultures and are contrasted with guilt cultures on the guilt-shame-fear spectrum of cultures.
^ Baden-Powell, Robert (2014). Scouting For Boys: A Handbook for Instruction in Good Citizenship Through Woodcraft. Kreactiva Editorial. Retrieved 6 March 2015. The Court of Honour is an important part of the Patrol System. It is a standing committee which settles the affairs of the troop.
One paper finds that present-day Canadians born in communities that historically lay outside the reach of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (Mounties) seem to inherit a violent code of honour that drives their behaviour.[17]
^ Defiled Trades and Social Outcasts – Honor and Ritual Pollution in Early Modern Germany Archived 3 October 2013 at the Wayback Machine, Cambridge University Press, 2000
^ Ivie, Robert L. (1982). "The metaphor of force in prowar discourse: The case of 1812". Quarterly Journal of Speech. 68 (3): 240–253. doi:10.1080/00335638209383610.
Skinners, executioners, grave-diggers, shepherds, barber-surgeons, millers, linen-weavers, sow-gelders, latrine-cleaners, and bailiffs and their families were among the "dishonourable people" (unehrliche Leute) in early modern German society.[8]
The concept of honour appears to have declined in importance in the modern West;conscience has replaced it[4] in the individual context, and the rule of law (with the rights and duties defined therein) has taken over in a social context.Popular stereotypes would have it surviving more definitively in more tradition-bound cultures (e.g. Pashtun, Southern Italian, Polish, Persian, Turkish, Arab, Iberian, "Old South" or Dixie) in a perception akin to Orientalism. Feudal or other agrarian societies, which focus upon land use and land ownership, may tend to "honour" more than do contemporary industrial societies. Note that Saint Anselm of Canterbury (c. 1033 – 1109) in Cur Deus Homo extended the concept of honour from his own feudal society to postulate God's honour.[5]
Honour can also imply duty to perform certain actions, such as providing for and disciplining one's children, serving in the military during war, contributing to local collective projects like building infrastructure, or exacting revenge in retaliation for acts one is directly harmed by.
d'Iribarne, Philippe. The Logic of Honor: National Traditions and Corporate Management. Welcome Rain Publishers, 2003. ISBN 978-1-56649-182-2.
Baden-Powell, Robert (2014). Scouting For Boys: A Handbook for Instruction in Good Citizenship Through Woodcraft. Kreactiva Editorial. Retrieved 6 March 2015. The Court of Honour is an important part of the Patrol System. It is a standing committee which settles the affairs of the troop.
Hein, David. "Christianity and Honor." The Living Church, 18 August 2013, pp. 8–10.
^ Restrepo, Pascual (9 October 2015). "Canada's History of Violence". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 22 May 2016.
A Dictionary of Medieval Terms and Phrases, Christopher Corédon, 2004, D.S. Brewer, Cambridge, ISBN 1-84384-023-5
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Honour" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ J David Valaik (2007).Carroll, John Martin; Baxter, Colin F. (eds.). The American Military Tradition: From Colonial Times to the Present. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 54. ISBN 978-0-7425-4428-4. Retrieved 26 July 2022. All in all, they fought one of the world's leading powers to a draw, which was formalized in the Treaty of Ghent (1814). In an outpouring of nationalism, the country celebrated the conclusion of the War of 1812 as a victory, highlighted by Andrew Jackson's magnificent stand before New Orleans (1815) and a number of spectacular naval triumphs.
For a closer understanding of the way in which ideas of honour (and related shame) are linked to social structures such as law and religion, a reading of the works of the French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu is worthwhile, particularly with reference to his discussions of the idea of "habitus".[citation needed]
^ "It takes a southerner to start (and win) a war - The Boston Globe". BostonGlobe.com. Retrieved 22 March 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"It takes a southerner to start (and win) a war - The Boston Globe"
Hein, David. "Rethinking Honor". Journal of Thought 17.1 (Spring 1982): 3–6.
^ Ignatieff, Michael (1997). The Warrior's Honour: Ethnic War and the Modern Conscience. New York, New York: Henry Holt and Co. pp. paraphrased from whole book.
^ Victor Sapio, Pennsylvania and the War of 1812 (University Press of Kentucky, 2015)
One can distinguish honour from dignity, which Wordsworth assessed as measured against an individual's conscience[2] rather than against the judgement of a community. Compare also the sociological concept of "face".
^ Qiblawi, Tamara. "Activists demand end to marriage rape laws". CNN. Retrieved 15 November 2017.
Ivie, Robert L. (1982). "The metaphor of force in prowar discourse: The case of 1812". Quarterly Journal of Speech. 68 (3): 240–253. doi:10.1080/00335638209383610.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Doris, Jim (5 January 2003). "A conversation with Margaret Visser: diagnosing that feeling of helplessness". Catholic New Times. Retrieved 10 March 2011.
Historian Norman Risjord has emphasised the central importance of honour as a cause of the War of 1812, which the United States launched in against Britain despite its much more powerful naval and military strength.[20]Americans of every political stripe saw the need to uphold national honour, and to rejectthe treatment of the United States by Britain as a third class nonentity. Americans talked incessantly about the need for force in response.[21] This quest for honour was a major cause of the war in the sense that most Americans who were not involved in mercantile interests or threatened by Indian attack strongly endorsed the preservation of national honour.[22] The humiliating attack by HMS Leopard against USS Chesapeake in June 1807 was a decisive event.[23]Historians have documentedthe importance of honour in shaping public opinion in a number of states, including Massachusetts,[24] Ohio,[25] Pennsylvania,[26][27] and Tennessee,[28] as well as the territory of Michigan.[29]Americans widely celebrated the conclusion of the war as successful, especially after the spectacular defeat of the main British invasion army at New Orleans[30] did restore the American sense of honour.
"Honour killings of girls and women". Amnesty International library. Amnesty International. 31 August 1999. Retrieved 3 December 2013.
Hein, David. "America's Honor: Lost and Regained." Modern Age 63, no. 4 (Fall 2021): 17–25.
An alternative to government enforcement of laws is community or individual enforcement of social norms.
