Deep regrets are an alternate version of Regrets. They are harder to beat and carry spiked bombs instead of weights. These bombs create an electric explosion, which is bigger and hits harder than the weights.
Locations																																							Whispering Rock Psychic Summer Camp																															Kids' Cabins																															Main Lodge																															Ford's Sanctuary																															Boathouse and Beach																															Thorney Towers Home for the Disturbed																															Rhombus of Ruin																															Charlie Psycho Delta																															Motherlobe																															The Quarry
Collectibles																																							Arrowheads																															Jarred Brains																															PSI Challenge Marker																															PSI Card																															Scavenger Hunt Items																															Figments																															Emotional Baggage																															Mental Cobweb																															Memory Vault																															Astral Layers
Regrets are enemies in Psychonauts 2.They are basic meta-physical manifestations of a person's regrets, and tend to appear in swarms the more actual regrets their host possess. They first appear in Loboto's Mind, and serve as aerial attack units of sorts, often appearing alongside censors.
Regrets are very fragile, and can be taken out with a single PSI-Blast, while Deep Regrets will take a couple more shots. Damaging a Regret in any wayor getting under it will force the Regret to drop its payload, damaging enemies that were near it. Alternatively, Raz can use Telekinesis to take the payload out of their hands and throw it back at them, though this will leave Raz open while tugging. Raz can also throw the payload to other enemies if he chooses to. Throwing a payload deals high damage in a small impact zone (even more damage and a bigger radius if it's a shock bomb), which is enough to instantly defeat a Regret or do massive damage to other enemies in the vicinity.
Regrets resemble large humanoid flies or fairies carrying large metal weights with the word "Regret" stamped on the front. They have curly purple hair and orange gloves. An alternate version of the Regret, called a "Deep Regret" is blue instead, and carries spiked electrical bombs instead of weights.
Regrets attack by trying to drop their weights onto Raz. Weights dropped causes a shockwave. Deep Regrets drop shock bombs that have a bigger blast radius, can shock Raz, and damage more. In any case where a Regret looses its payload, it will try to fly away and generate a new payload and attempt to drop it again.
Important Objects																																							Dream Fluff																															PSI Core																															Dowsing Rod																															Cobweb Duster																															PSI Energy Colorizer																															Mental Magnet																															Smelling Salts																															Bacon																															Psycho-Portal																															Music Box
World																																														Characters																																							Razputin Aquato																															Ford Cruller																															Coach Oleander																															Milla Vodello																															Edgar Teglee																															Fred Bonaparte																															D'Artagnan																															Boyd Cooper																															Gloria Von Gouton																															Dr. Caligosto Loboto																																																Locations																																							Whispering Rock Psychic Summer Camp																															Kids' Cabins																															Main Lodge																															Ford's Sanctuary																															Boathouse and Beach																															Thorney Towers Home for the Disturbed																															Rhombus of Ruin																															Charlie Psycho Delta																															Motherlobe																															The Quarry
Explore																																														Main Page																																	Discuss																																	All Pages																																	Community																																	Interactive Maps																																	Recent Blog Posts
This article is a work in progress and needs a lot more information. Please pardon our mess while we sort it out, or lend a hand!
Characters																																							Razputin Aquato																															Ford Cruller																															Coach Oleander																															Milla Vodello																															Edgar Teglee																															Fred Bonaparte																															D'Artagnan																															Boyd Cooper																															Gloria Von Gouton																															Dr. Caligosto Loboto
Community																																														Administration																																	Camp Rules																																	Bulletin Board																																	Merit Badges																																	Blogs																																	Discussion Board
These brains are worthless, Sheegor!This article is a work in progress and needs a lot more information. Please pardon our mess while we sort it out, or lend a hand!
PSI-Powers																																							PSI-Punch																															Marksmanship																															Levitation																															Telekinesis																															Pyrokinesis																															Invisibility																															Shield																															Confusion																															Herbaphony																															Time Bubble
Gameplay																																														PSI-Powers																																							PSI-Punch																															Marksmanship																															Levitation																															Telekinesis																															Pyrokinesis																															Invisibility																															Shield																															Confusion																															Herbaphony																															Time Bubble																																																Collectibles																																							Arrowheads																															Jarred Brains																															PSI Challenge Marker																															PSI Card																															Scavenger Hunt Items																															Figments																															Emotional Baggage																															Mental Cobweb																															Memory Vault																															Astral Layers																																																Important Objects																																							Dream Fluff																															PSI Core																															Dowsing Rod																															Cobweb Duster																															PSI Energy Colorizer																															Mental Magnet																															Smelling Salts																															Bacon																															Psycho-Portal																															Music Box																																																Mental Worlds																																							Basic Braining																															Brain Tumbler Experiment																															Sasha's Shooting Gallery																															Milla's Dance Party																															Lungfishopolis																															The Milkman Conspiracy																															Gloria's Theater																															Waterloo World																															Black Velvetopia																															Meat Circus
Using Clairvoyance on them reveals Raz as a flattened version of himself.
Mental Worlds																																							Basic Braining																															Brain Tumbler Experiment																															Sasha's Shooting Gallery																															Milla's Dance Party																															Lungfishopolis																															The Milkman Conspiracy																															Gloria's Theater																															Waterloo World																															Black Velvetopia																															Meat Circus
Games																																														Psychonauts																																	Psychonauts in the Rhombus of Ruin																																	Psychonauts 2
Warning! This article or section contains spoilers for Psychonauts and/or its sequels. Read with caution!
Bulletin de la Société archéologique, historique, littéraire & scientifique du Gers, vol. 74, p. 60.
Philippe Noiret in La fille de d'Artagnan (The Daughter of D'Artagnan aka Revenge of the Musketeers) (1994)
Louis de Batz de Castelmore (the elder), was born in 1660, took the title of count d’Artagnan and died at Château de Castelmore in December 1709.[7]
Kenneth Welsh in The Three Musketeers (Canadian TV movie) (1969)
In the video game Monster Hunter Generations, one of the feline-type non-playable characters is named 'd'Artanyan', wearing a wide-brimmed hat and cape similar to many depictions of d'Artagnan.
They had two sons, both of whom entered the military:
D'Artagnan had a career in espionage for Cardinal Mazarin, in the years after the first Fronde. Due to d'Artagnan's faithful service during this period, Louis XIV entrusted him with many secret and delicate situations that required complete discretion. He followed Mazarin during his exile in 1651 in the face of the hostility of the aristocracy.In 1652, d'Artagnan was promoted to lieutenant in the Gardes Françaises, and fought at the Battle of Stenay in 1654, as well as in sieges at Landrecies and Saint-Ghislaine, then to captain in 1655. In 1658, he became a second lieutenant in the newly reformed Musketeers. This was a promotion, as the Musketeers were far more prestigious than the Gardes-Françaises.
Louis Jourdan in The Man in the Iron Mask (TV movie) (1977)
Musician Citizen Cope included a song titled "d'Artagnan's Theme" on his 2004 album The Clarence Greenwood Recordings.
Bulletin de la Société archéologique, historique littéraire & scientifique du Gers, 1973, p. 57 : extrait de baptême de M. le comte de Castelmor. Reconstitution des actes d’État-civil. Dépôt central palais de la Bourse. Entrée le 21 septembre 1872, No. 75e341. Pour copie conforme, Paris le 6 mai 1968. Direction des Archives de Paris.
The Return of the Musketeers, or The Treasures of Cardinal Mazarin (2009)
D'Artagnan was born at the Château de Castelmore near Lupiac in south-western France. His father, Bertrand de Batz lord of Castelmore, was the son of a newly ennobled merchant, Arnaud de Batz, who purchased the Château de Castelmore. Charles de Batz went to Paris in the 1630s, using the name of his mother Françoise de Montesquiou d'Artagnan. D'Artagnan found a way to enter into the Musketeers in 1632 through the support of his uncle, Henri de Montesquiou d'Artagnan or perhaps thanks to the influence of Henri's friend, Monsieur de Tréville (Jean-Armand du Peyrer, Comte de Troisville).[1] D’Artagnan joined the guards in the mid-1630s and served under Captain des Essarts. The regiment saw much action in the early 1640s, taking part in sieges at Arras, Aire-sur-la-Lys, la Bassée and Bapaume in 1640–41and Collioure and Perpignan in 1642. Whether or not d’Artagnan was personally involved is unclear, but it is likely he took part in some, if not all, of these sieges.[2] While in the Musketeers, d'Artagnan sought the protection of the influential Cardinal Mazarin, France's principal minister from 1643. In 1646, the Musketeers company was dissolved, but d'Artagnan continued to serve his protector Mazarin.
Bulletin de la Société archéologique, historique, littéraire & scientifique du Gers, vol. 74, 1973.
D'Artagnan was famous for his connection with the arrest of Nicolas Fouquet. Fouquet was Louis XIV's finance commissioner and aspired to take the place of Mazarin as the king's advisor. Fouquet was also a lover of grand architecture and employed the greatest architects and artisans in the building of his Chateau Vaux-le-Vicomte. He celebrated the completion with a most extravagant feast, at which every guest was given a horse. The king, however, felt upstaged by the grandeur of the home and event and, suspecting that such magnificence could only be explained through Fouquet's pilfering the royal treasury, three weeks later had d'Artagnan arrest Fouquet. To prevent his escape by bribery, d'Artagnan was assigned to guard him for four years until Fouquet was sentenced to life imprisonment.
In the video game Metro: Last Light, one of the characters repeatedly refers to the protagonist as D'Artagnan, comparing the duo to "two of the three musketeers" and himself to Athos.
In the Netflix Original show Stranger Things, the second season features a creature who is named d'Artagnan by Dustin Henderson, one of the protagonists
Tom Reiss, The Black Count: Glory, Revolution, Betrayal, and the Real Count of Monte Cristo (New York: Crown Publishers, 2012), 8, 77, 86; Claude Ribbe, Le diable noir (Monaco: Alphée, 2008), 17–18.
Louis-Gabriel de Batz de Castelmore, born in 1710, was known as marquis of Castelmore and baron of Sainte-Croix, cavalry officer then gendarmerie officer. He sold on 30 October, 1769 the Château de Castelmore. He died in Paris on 15 August, 1783 at the age of 73.[8] He married on 12 July, 1745 Constance Gabrielle du Moncel de Lourailles (1720-1764), widow of Joseph II Bonnier de la Mosson. He had a son Louis Constantin.[9][10][11]
^ The Times (November 2008). "En garde! Historian claims to have found d'Artagnan". Retrieved 19 April 2010.
Jean-Guillaume-Ernest Bats, born on 9 February, 1809 in Besançon,[14] silk manufacturer in Lyon, he married on 9 February, 1834 in Lyon Julie Masson (1806-1839) with whom he will have a son François. He married on 15 April, 1840 in La Guillotière Claire Billon (1818-1875). They had 3 children : Constance-Claudine (born in 1841), Louis-Alexandre (born in 1847), married on 29 April, 1876 in Lyon Perret and Anne (born in 1850), married on 12 April, 1883 in Lyon François Cholat.[14]
"Russian animation in letters and figures. Movies. Dog in Boots" [Российская анимация в буквах и фигурах. Фильмы. "Пес в сапогах"] (in Russian). Animator.ru. Retrieved 2 May 2010.
In the game Pokémon Black and White, a Pokémon is introduced named Keldeo. Keldeo belongs to a group of Swordsman Pokémon called The Swords of Justice, who are inspired by the Three Musketeers. Keldeo is inspired by d'Artagnan.
Dennis Hayden in an early 1998 film of The Man in the Iron Mask
Some scholars believe aspects of D'Artagnan are drawn from the life and character of Dumas's mixed-race father, General Thomas-Alexandre Dumas. The incident when D'Artagnan challenges Porthos, Athos, and Aramis to duels on the same afternoon might be based on an incident in General Dumas's youth when he was insulted; and their subsequent friendship on General Dumas's youthful companionship with fellow soldiers in the Queen's Dragoons.[22]
Sur la descendance contemporaine en ligne féminine de d'Artagan Archived 2015-01-25 at the Wayback Machine.
D'Artagnan is initially portrayed by Dumas as a hotheaded youth, who tries to engage the Comte de Rochefort and the three musketeers, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis in single combat. He quickly becomes friends with the musketeers, and has a series of adventures which put him at odds with Cardinal Richelieu, then First Minister of France. In the end, Richelieu is impressed by d'Artagnan, and makes him a lieutenant of the musketeers. This begins his long career of military service, as detailed in the sequels.
^ a b c d e f g h i j Société archéologique, historique, littéraire et scientifique du Gers, docteur Maurice Bats « La postérité de d’Artagnan », Impr. F. Cocharaux, Auch, 1973, pages 55 à 60.
Athletic teams at Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio are called the Musketeers, and their mascot is named D'Artagnan after the character.
Odile Brel-Bordaz, D'Artagnan, mousquetaire du roi : sa vie, son époque, ses contemporains, Éditions du Griot, 1995, p. 97–98.
Hugh Dancy in Young Blades (unaired TV series pilot) (2001)
D'Artagnan's role among the musketeers is one of leadership (his skills and brains impress the musketeers greatly), but he is also regarded as a sort of protégé given his youth and inexperience. Athos sees him not only as a best friend and fellow musketeer but nearly as a son. At the end of the series, his death at the siege of Maastricht is given an extra tragic twist – he is mortally wounded while reading the notice of his promotion to the highest military rank.
"France – Land of the_Musketeers – Dominique's Villas". Archived from the original on 2008-12-04.
Louis Constantin de Batz de Castelmore,[9][11][12] born in Paris on 25 July, 1747,[13] Cavalry officer in the régiment Royal-étranger in 1764 in Strasbourg. He became second lieutenant on 5 April, 1764, capitaine captain in 1765, capitaine in 1772, assistant-major on 2 March, 1773.[14][15][16] At the death of his father, he attended on August 16, 1783 the sealing of his apartment in Paris.[17] He married on 24 April, 1793 Jeanne Molé (born in 1755).[14][16] He lived in Paris then heemigrated during the French Revolution Révolution. In 1809 he lived for two years at the prince of Bauffremont's castel at Scey-sur-Saône.[16] On 16 March, 1826, he declared before a notary that he lives for twenty years at the prince de Bauffremont's castel in Scey sur Saône and that he does not own anything and lives at the expense of the prince.[14] He died at the castel of Scey sur Saône on 14 December, 1827.[11] He had two daughters : Louise-Constance (born in 1775) and Aglaé-Rosalie-Victorine (born in 1776).
Archives départementales de la Haute-Saône, État-civil de la commune de Scey sur Saône et Saint-Albin, acte de décès le 14 décembre 1827 de Louis Constantin de Batz de Castelmore; fils de Louis Gabriel de Batz marquis de Castelmore et de Constance Gabrielle Dumoncel
^ Bulletin de la Société archéologique, historique, littéraire & scientifique du Gers, vol. 74, p. 60.
In Neal Stephenson's Quicksilver a story of d'Artagnan's death is related by one of the characters, Half-Cocked Jack.
"Russian animation in letters and figures. Movies. Dog in Boots"
Douglas Fairbanks in The Three Musketeers (1921), and The Iron Mask (1929)
Louis Grasset-Morel, Les Bonnier, ou, Une Famille de financiers au XVIIIe siècle, E. Dentu, 1886, p. 152.
^ a b c d e Odile Brel-Bordaz, D'Artagnan, mousquetaire du roi : sa vie, son époque, ses contemporains, Éditions du Griot, 1995, p. 97–98.
Jean Marais in Le Masque de fer (French film of The Man in the Iron Mask) (1962)
John Lynch in The First Churchills (BBC TV series), episode 1 "The Chaste Nymph" (1969)
D'Artagnan's death at the 1673 siege of Maastricht, an article by Hennie Reuvers in Crossroads web magazine
^ a b Bulletin de la Société archéologique, historique littéraire & scientifique du Gers, 1973, p. 57 : extrait de baptême de M. le comte de Castelmor. Reconstitution des actes d’État-civil. Dépôt central palais de la Bourse. Entrée le 21 septembre 1872, No. 75e341. Pour copie conforme, Paris le 6 mai 1968. Direction des Archives de Paris.
Jim Backus in "The Three Musketeers," (an animated TV adaptation shown as a two-part episode of The Famous Adventures of Mr. Magoo) (1964)
On 5 March 1659 D'Artagnan married Anne-Charlotte Boyer de Chanlecy (1624-1683), lady of Sainte-Croix, and widow of Jean-Elenor de Damas. She was the daughter of Charles Boyer, lord of Chanlecy and Sainte-Croix, and Claude de Rymon, lady of la Rochette. [5] The couple soon separated, D'Artagnan pursuing his military career while his wife left Paris to live on her lands at Sainte-Croix, where she died on 31 December, 1683.[6]
D'Artagnan is mentioned in Chapter 16 of Eric Flint's alternate history novel 1632, and in stories by Bradley Sinor in the 163x anthologies Ring of Fire III and Grantville Gazette V.
This page was last edited on 14 March 2023, at 22:52 (UTC).
Gabriel Byrne in The Man in the Iron Mask (1998)
Louise-Constance de Batz de Castelmore, born on 4 May, 1775 in Paris.[14][16] She had a son Jean-Guillaume-Ernest Batz, born in Besançon on 9 February, 1809,[14] (his father is unknown). In1833, she was still livingat the prince de Bauffremont's Castel in Scey-sur-Saône, when she gives consent to the marriage of his son Jean-Guillaume Bats. She died on 14 April, 1857 in Reims.[14]
Bulletin de la Société archéologique, historique, littéraire & scientifique du Gers, vol. 74, p. 57.
Charles de Batz de Castelmore (French pronunciation: ​[ʃaʁl də bats də kastɛlmɔʁ]), also known as d'Artagnan and later Count d'Artagnan (c. 1611 – 25 June 1673), was a French Musketeer who served Louis XIV as captain of the Musketeers of the Guard. He died at the siege of Maastricht in the Franco-Dutch War. A fictionalised account of his life by Gatien de Courtilz de Sandras formed the basis for the d'Artagnan Romances of Alexandre Dumas, père, most famously including The Three Musketeers (1844). The heavily fictionalised version of d'Artagnan featured in Dumas' works and their subsequent screen adaptations is now far more widely known than the real historical figure.
French poet Edmond Rostand wrote the play Cyrano de Bergerac in 1897. After one of the play's famous scenes, in which Cyrano defeats Valvert in a duel while completing a poem, d'Artagnan approaches Cyrano and congratulates him on his fine swordsmanship.
Henri Castex, La descendance des Mérovingiens ? : les d'Artagnan toujours dans l'histoire, Éditions L.P.F., 1985, p. 40.
The Times (November 2008). "En garde! Historian claims to have found d'Artagnan". Retrieved 19 April 2010.
In Star Trek: The Original Series (season 1) The Naked Time, Sulu was using a fencing foil on the bridge and after he's rendered unconscious by Spock's nerve pinch, Spock says "Take d'Artagnan here to sickbay"
Samaran, Charles (1912), D'Artagnan, capitaine des mousquetaires du Roi: histoire véridique d'un héros de roman (in French), Paris: Calmann-Lévy
Aglaé-Rosalie-Victorine de Batz de Castelmore, born on 4 September 1776 in Paris.[14][16][21]
The Dutch novel In het krijt .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 978-94-022-3115-1 by C. Hermans subtly refers to the possible location of the grave of d'Artagnan in Maastricht
docteur Maurice Bats, Descent of d’Artagnan, Impr. F. Cocharaux, Auch, 1973, pages 55 à 60.
^ Henri Castex, La descendance des Mérovingiens ? : les d'Artagnan toujours dans l'histoire, Éditions L.P.F., 1985, p. 40.
^ "Le beau d'Artagnan et son époque". www.pastichesdumas.com. Retrieved 2022-01-09.
Amédée Sevène, Notice sur Villemur: chef-lieu de canton de l'arrondissement de Toulouse (Haute-Garonne), 1898, p. 70.
^ Amédée Sevène, Notice sur Villemur: chef-lieu de canton de l'arrondissement de Toulouse (Haute-Garonne), 1898, p. 70.
^ Bulletin de la Société archéologique, historique, littéraire & scientifique du Gers, vol. 74, p. 57.
The Return of the Musketeers, or The Treasures of Cardinal Mazarin
The French historian Odile Bordaz believes that he was buried in Saint Peter and Paul Church in Wolder, a district of Maastricht, the Netherlands. Wolder was Louis XIV's headquarter during the Maastricht siege and he attended mass in the local church every day.[3]In contrast, the archaeologist Wim Dijkman, curator of the historical collections of the city of Maastricht at Centre Céramique, says that there is no historical or archaeological evidence of the claim.[4]
Études sur la contre-Révolution : la vie et les conspirations de Jean, baron de Batz, 1908, page 45.
Note: Cornel Wilde, in addition to his role listed above, played the same-named son of d'Artagnan as the main hero in At Sword's Point (1952); Tobias Mehler was similarly cast in the Young Blades series, while the indicated performance there by Shaughnessy was a single guest appearance as his famous father. Andrew Rannells voiced d'Artagnan in the Japanese manga series Dinosaur King.
^ René Batz, Études sur la contre-Révolution : la vie et les conspirations de Jean, baron de Batz, 1908, page 45.
4Portrayals in fiction											Toggle Portrayals in fiction subsection																					4.1In other works																											4.2Film and television
Warren William in The Man in the Iron Mask (1939)
^ "Russian animation in letters and figures. Movies. Dog in Boots" [Российская анимация в буквах и фигурах. Фильмы. "Пес в сапогах"] (in Russian). Animator.ru. Retrieved 2 May 2010.
D'Artagnan, capitaine des mousquetaires du Roi: histoire véridique d'un héros de roman
Mikhail Boyarsky in d'Artagnan and Three Musketeers (1978) and its sequels (1992, 1993, 2009)
French writers Charles Quinel and Adhémar de Montgon published in 1930 another novel about d'Artagnan titled Le beau d’Artagnan et son époque.[23]
Maurice de Batz, has two sons, Olivier and Rolland, and three grandchildren: Antonin, Clément and Gaspart.[20]
^ Tom Reiss, The Black Count: Glory, Revolution, Betrayal, and the Real Count of Monte Cristo (New York: Crown Publishers, 2012), 8, 77, 86; Claude Ribbe, Le diable noir (Monaco: Alphée, 2008), 17–18.
George Nader in The Secret Mark of D'Artagnan (1962, Italian)
^ Louis Grasset-Morel, Les Bonnier, ou, Une Famille de financiers au XVIIIe siècle, E. Dentu, 1886, p. 152.
Jeanne-Anne de Bats, born on 10 November, 1867 in Lyon, married on 17 September, 1895 in Lyon Alfred Cahn.In 1969 their grandson Maurice Cahn was allowed to change his name to « Bats » in memory of his ancestor the famous French musketeer Charles de Batz de Castelmore as known as d'Artagnan.[18][19]
The real d'Artagnan's life was used as the basis for Gatien de Courtilz de Sandras' novel Les mémoires de M. d'Artagnan. Alexandre Dumas in turn used Sandras' novel as the main source for his d'Artagnan Romances (The Three Musketeers, Twenty Years After and The Vicomte de Bragelonne), which cover d'Artagnan's career from his humble beginnings in Gascony to his death at Maastricht. Although Dumas knew that Sandras's version was heavily fictionalised, in the preface to The Three Musketeers he affected to believe that the memoirs were real, in order to make his novel more believable.
John Greenwood in the Doctor Who episode, The Mind Robber (1968)
^ a b c d e f g h i j
Société archéologique, historique, littéraire et scientifique du Gers, docteur Maurice Bats « La postérité de d’Artagnan », Impr. F. Cocharaux, Auch, 1973, pages 55 à 60.
Please reorganize this content to explain the subject's impact on popular culture, providing citations to reliable, secondary sources, rather than simply listing appearances. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
In 1667, d'Artagnan was promoted to captain-lieutenant of the Musketeers, the effective commander as the nominal captain was the king. As befitted his rank and position, he could be identified by his striking burgundy, white, and black livery—the colours of the commanding officer of the Musketeers. Another of d'Artagnan's assignments was the governorship of Lille, which was won in battle by France in 1667. D'Artagnan was an unpopular governor and longed to return to battle. He found his chance when Louis XIV went to war with the Dutch Republic in the Franco-Dutch War. After being recalled to service, d'Artagnan was subsequently killed in battle on 25 June 1673, when a musket ball tore into his throat at the siege of Maastricht.
^ a b c Archives départementales de la Haute-Saône, État-civil de la commune de Scey sur Saône et Saint-Albin, acte de décès le 14 décembre 1827 de Louis Constantin de Batz de Castelmore; fils de Louis Gabriel de Batz marquis de Castelmore et de Constance Gabrielle Dumoncel
^ Sur la descendance contemporaine en ligne féminine de d'Artagan Archived 2015-01-25 at the Wayback Machine.
François Bats, born on 30 November, 1834 inLyon. Married on 8 November, 1862 in Lyon Catherine-Charlotte Damaisin. He had two daughters : Claire de Bats (1863) married on 22 February, 1883 Eugène Félix Marius Guilhaume and Jeanne-Anne de Bats.[14]
The Secret of Queen Anne or Musketeers Thirty Years After
Michael York in The Three Musketeers (1973), The Four Musketeers (1974), The Return of the Musketeers (1989), and La Femme Musketeer (TV miniseries) (2003)
Aleksandr Bushkov published a novel "D'Artagnan – a Guard of a Cardinal" ("Д′Артаньан – гвардеец кардинала"), I–II, Krasnoyarsk, Moskva, S-Peterburg 2002.
^ Bulletin de la Société archéologique, historique, littéraire & scientifique du Gers, vol. 84–85, Impr. Th. Bouquet, 1983, page 147.
The Secret of Queen Anne or Musketeers Thirty Years After (1993)
Bruce Watson in The Three Musketeers (an animated American TV series) (1968)
^ Bulletin de la Société archéologique, historique, littéraire & scientifique du Gers, vol. 74, 1973.
Bulletin de la Société archéologique, historique, littéraire & scientifique du Gers, vol. 84–85, Impr. Th. Bouquet, 1983, page 147.
^ "France – Land of the_Musketeers – Dominique's Villas". Archived from the original on 2008-12-04.
Louis de Batz de Castelmore (the younger), born 4 July 1661 in Chalon-sur-Saône, was a knight, later known as count d’Artagnan, baron of Sainte-Croix, lord of Chanlecy and Castelmore, and became maréchal de camp. He married on 21 May, 1707 Marie Anne Amé (1670–1714) and died on 7 June, 1714 at the castle of Sainte-Croix.[5] He also had two sons:
René Batz, Études sur la contre-Révolution : la vie et les conspirations de Jean, baron de Batz, 1908, page 45.
If a page was recently created here, it may not be visible yet because of a delay in updating the database; wait a few minutes or try the purge function.
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title.
If the page has been deleted, check the deletion log, and see Why was the page I created deleted?.
Titles on Wikipedia are case sensitive except for the first character; please check alternative capitalizations and consider adding a redirect here to the correct title.
You need to log in or create an account to create this page.
If a page was recently created here, it may not be visible yet because of a delay in updating the database; wait a few minutes or try the purge function.
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title.
If the page has been deleted, check the deletion log, and see Why was the page I created deleted?.
Titles on Wikipedia are case sensitive except for the first character; please check alternative capitalizations and consider adding a redirect here to the correct title.
You need to log in or create an account to create this page.
If a page was recently created here, it may not be visible yet because of a delay in updating the database; wait a few minutes or try the purge function.
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title.
If the page has been deleted, check the deletion log, and see Why was the page I created deleted?.
Titles on Wikipedia are case sensitive except for the first character; please check alternative capitalizations and consider adding a redirect here to the correct title.
You need to log in or create an account to create this page.
If a page was recently created here, it may not be visible yet because of a delay in updating the database; wait a few minutes or try the purge function.
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title.
If the page has been deleted, check the deletion log, and see Why was the page I created deleted?.
Titles on Wikipedia are case sensitive except for the first character; please check alternative capitalizations and consider adding a redirect here to the correct title.
You need to log in or create an account to create this page.
Descartes employed Cartesian doubt as a pre-eminent methodological tool in his fundamental philosophical investigations.Branches of philosophy like logic devote much effort to distinguish the dubious, the probable and the certain. Much of illogic rests on dubious assumptions, dubious data or dubious conclusions, with rhetoric, whitewashing, and deception playing their accustomed roles.
"Isaac Asimov: A Prophet for Our Time". Archived from the original on 2017-06-25. Retrieved 2017-10-09.
^ Braiker, Harriet B. (2004). Who's Pulling Your Strings ? How to Break The Cycle of Manipulation. ISBN 0-07-144672-9.
^ "Isaac Asimov: A Prophet for Our Time". Archived from the original on 2017-06-25. Retrieved 2017-10-09.
Concluding Unscientific Postscript to Philosophical Fragments, ed. by Howard V. Hong and Edna H. Hong, v. 1, Princeton University Press, 1992, pp. 21–57
^ Concluding Unscientific Postscript to Philosophical Fragments, ed. by Howard V. Hong and Edna H. Hong, v. 1, Princeton University Press, 1992, pp. 21–57
^ Soren Kierkegaard's Journals and Papers, trans. Hong and Malantschuk, p. 399.
Hein, David (Winter 2006). "Faith and Doubt in Rose Macaulay's The Towers of Trebizond". Anglican Theological Review 88 (1): 47–68. ISSN 0003-3286.
—Henri Poincaré, Science and Hypothesis (1905) (from Dover abridged edition of 1952)
Partial or intermittent negative reinforcement can create an effective climate of fear and doubt.[2]
Doubt as a path towards (deeper) belief lies at the heart of the story of Saint Thomas the Apostle. Note in this respect the theological views of Georg Hermes:
Christian existentialists such as Søren Kierkegaard suggest that for one to truly have belief in God, one would also have to doubt one's beliefs about God; the doubt is the rational part of a person's thought involved in weighing evidence, without which the belief would have no real substance. Belief is not a decision based on evidence that, say, certain beliefs about God are true or a certain person is worthy of love. No such evidence could ever be enough to pragmatically justify the kind of total commitment involved in true theological belief or romantic love. Belief involves making that commitment anyway. Kierkegaard thought that to have belief is at the same time to have doubt.[4][5]
To doubt everything or to believe everything are two equally convenient solutions; both dispense with the necessity of reflection.
Schulte, Karl Joseph (1910). "George Hermes". The Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 7. New York: Robert Appleton. Retrieved 2008-10-21.
Doubt is a mental state in which the mind remains suspended between two or more contradictory propositions, unable to be certain of any of them.[1][better source needed] Doubt on an emotional level is indecision between belief and disbelief. It may involve uncertainty, distrust or lack of conviction on certain facts, actions, motives, or decisions. Doubt can result in delaying or rejecting relevant action out of concern for mistakes or missed opportunities.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Sharpe, Alfred. "Doubt". The Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 5. New York: Robert Appleton. Retrieved 2008-10-21. A state in which the mind is suspended between two contradictory propositions and unable to assent to either of them.
The scientific method regularly quantifies doubt, and uses it to determine whether further research is needed. Isaac Asimov, in his essay collection Fact and Fancy, described science as a system for causing and resolving intelligent doubt.[6]
... the starting-point and chief principle of every science, and hence of theology also, is not only methodical doubt, but positive doubt. One can believe only what one has perceived to be true from reasonable grounds, and consequently one must have the courage to continue doubting until one has found reliable grounds to satisfy the reason.[3]
^ Schulte, Karl Joseph (1910). "George Hermes". The Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 7. New York: Robert Appleton. Retrieved 2008-10-21.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Sharpe, Alfred. "Doubt". The Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 5. New York: Robert Appleton. Retrieved 2008-10-21. A state in which the mind is suspended between two contradictory propositions and unable to assent to either of them.
Berger, Peter L. and Zijderveld, Anton (2009). In Praise of Doubt: How to Have Convictions Without Becoming a Fanatic. New York: HarperOne. ISBN 978-0-06-177816-2. A book by two eminent sociologists, one American and the other Dutch.
Hecht, Jennifer Michael (2003). Doubt: a history: the great doubters and their legacy of innovation from Socrates and Jesus to Thomas Jefferson and Emily Dickinson. San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco. ISBN 0-06-009795-7. This book traces the role of doubt through human history, all over the world, particularly regarding religion.
This page was last edited on 4 February 2023, at 05:33 (UTC).
Soren Kierkegaard's Journals and Papers, trans. Hong and Malantschuk, p. 399.
Braiker, Harriet B. (2004). Who's Pulling Your Strings ? How to Break The Cycle of Manipulation. ISBN 0-07-144672-9.
Doubt: a history: the great doubters and their legacy of innovation from Socrates and Jesus to Thomas Jefferson and Emily Dickinson
If a page was recently created here, it may not be visible yet because of a delay in updating the database; wait a few minutes or try the purge function.
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title.
If the page has been deleted, check the deletion log, and see Why was the page I created deleted?.
Titles on Wikipedia are case sensitive except for the first character; please check alternative capitalizations and consider adding a redirect here to the correct title.
You need to log in or create an account to create this page.
If a page was recently created here, it may not be visible yet because of a delay in updating the database; wait a few minutes or try the purge function.
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title.
If the page has been deleted, check the deletion log, and see Why was the page I created deleted?.
Titles on Wikipedia are case sensitive except for the first character; please check alternative capitalizations and consider adding a redirect here to the correct title.
You need to log in or create an account to create this page.
If a page was recently created here, it may not be visible yet because of a delay in updating the database; wait a few minutes or try the purge function.
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title.
If the page has been deleted, check the deletion log, and see Why was the page I created deleted?.
Titles on Wikipedia are case sensitive except for the first character; please check alternative capitalizations and consider adding a redirect here to the correct title.
You need to log in or create an account to create this page.
