"Permis de conduire - Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires étrangères" (in French). Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires étrangères. Retrieved 1 February 2021.
^ "В сервисных центрах МВД Украины начали выдавать международные водительские права". delo.ua (in Russian). Retrieved 10 February 2017.
"Getting Your Driver's Licence". Youth Information Centers. Jamaica: National Centre for Youth Developmen. 2010. Retrieved 11 January 2020.
^ "Advanced driving courses". NZ Transport Agency. 5 July 2017.
Washington state has a reciprocal license exchange, allowing holders of valid licenses from any other US state, British Columbia, Germany, South Korea, and Taiwan to exchange their license for a Washington State license without taking any written or road tests.[95]
Driving permits in the Philippines consists of three types. These are Student Permit, Non-Professional and Professional. The minimum age for driving in the Philippines is 17 years old provided that the driver has applied for a Student Permit and is accompanied by a person with a Professional or Non-Professional permit. An applicant can only apply for a Non-Professional driving license one month after acquiring a Student Permit. An applicant needs to have a Non-Professional driving license for 1 week in order to be eligible for a Professional driving license. An applicant must pass both the Land Transportation Office written exam and a practical driving exam. If the applicant fails the tests, the applicant must wait for a month before being able to take the tests again.
Minimum age to obtain category B driving licence in Poland is 18, category C1 and C1+E is also 18. The minimum age to obtain category C and C+E is 21 years of age. Category D (large bus) is 24.
^ Carlos Josue Quinteros Berrios. "Primera Vez" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
24 years old for issue of Driving License class: D, FC
"For organ donor entry column of driver's license (Japanese)" (in Japanese). Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 22 July 2013. Retrieved 22 July 2013.
Virginia has a reciprocal agreement with Canada, France, and Germany. The knowledge and skills tests may be waived if the driver meets residency and other requirements.[96]
General (보통) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 10 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 4 tonnes, a special motor vehicle which weighs less than 3.5 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers).
B2 – to drive private or commercial vehicle under 9 seats, cargo vehicle or tractor with weight allowed not exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb). B2 license is valid for 10 years.
There are three different types of "Driver Licence" in New Zealand: learners (blue), restricted (orange) and full (green). Learner licences allow the person to drive, with a wide number of restrictions.[66] Restricted licences allow driving alone between the hours of 5am to 10pm, and require the person to be at least 16 years 6 months old. Restricted licence drivers who passed their practical test in a vehicle with an automatic transmission are not allowed to drive vehicles with manual transmission until they have their full licence.[67] Full licences are restricted to those 18 and over, or 17 years 6 months old if an approved advanced driving course has been successfully completed.[68]
^ "New Residents of Québec and Holders of a Driver's Licence Issued Outside Québec". Saaq.gouv.qc.ca. 19 January 2011. Archived from the original on 4 March 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"WA State Licensing: Moving? Get WA license". Dol.wa.gov. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
Canada (by default, Canadian driver's licences will only be exchanged for licences to drive automatic transmission cars, unless documentary evidence is provided that a manual gearbox (shift) test was passed in Canada).
Information from the European Union in driving licenses throughout the Community
^ "WA State Licensing: Moving? Get WA license". Dol.wa.gov. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
Type 1 (1종) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 15 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 12 tonnes, when the driver is driving with somebody with a non-practice license.
Australia, Barbados, Faroe Islands, Hong Kong, Japan, Monaco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, South Africa, and Zimbabwe (only car and motorcycle licences),
In Taiwan, driving permits (駕駛執照) are issued by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to a qualified driver. The number of the driver license in Taiwan is the same as the ID number of the license holder's household registration in Taiwan. In Taiwan, the driver license is sometimes accepted as a valid identity document, since the information on a driver license replicates most of that on a Taiwanese National Identification Card.
"Road Traffic Act 1988". Gov.UK. HM Government. Retrieved 25 August 2014. Section 7b refers to providing "licences" within 7 days.
"Learners Licence". Learning Licence Test India. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
Convention with Respect to the International Circulation of Motor Vehicles
X Combination of Tank Vehicle and Hazardous Materials (written test)
"New York State Commercial Driver's Manual". Retrieved 25 October 2006.
As of November 2011, drivers can renew their licence on their birthday, rather than expiry date.[36]
A new credit card format driving licence has been introduced. The licence bears the digital photo, signature and blood group information of the card holder. A record of traffic violations is stored automatically in the database. To obtain a driving licence one must register for a learner's permit at any of the local District Police's designated licence offices and then, after 42 days, one can apply for test for a regular full licence.
In most international agreements the wording "driving permit" is used, for instance in the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic. In this article's country specific sections, the local spelling variant is used.If a driver has their learners permit they are allowed to drive with a peer who has their license, regardless if they are 18 or under.
"ГАИ РУ – Информационный портал: автомобильные новости, оплата штрафов ГИБДД – Форум автомобилистов – Справочная информация для автовладельцев"
"New York State Department of Motor Vehicles - NYS DMV - NYSDMV - Driver - Vehicle"
The minimum driving age varies between 16 and 18 years of age in different States and Territories. After the minimum age, a graduated licensing scheme operates, with state variations.
"Guía Licencia" (in Spanish). Venezuela: Instituto Nacional de Transporte Terrestre. 2012. Archived from the original on 19 January 2013. Retrieved 15 August 2018.
^ "Requirements for Obtaining a Driving Licence". Transport Department, Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Retrieved 8 November 2022.
"Indian government to introduce universal smart card driving license across the country". Cartoq. 29 June 2019. Retrieved 27 January 2021.
^ "Road Traffic Act 1988". Gov.UK. HM Government. Retrieved 25 August 2014. Section 7b refers to providing "licences" within 7 days.
"Florida officials sign a new agreement wit South Korea" (PDF). www.flhsmv.gov (Press release). 21 October 2011. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 January 2012. Retrieved 20 January 2012.
In the United States, a holder of a driver's license is typically legally allowed to operate a motor vehicle up to 26,000 pounds if no hazardous materials and no more than 16 persons (driver included) are in the vehicle. Most jurisdictions that grant driver's licenses only permit the holder to operate a roadworthy vehicle consisting of four or more wheels. If not one must get a Grade M license which only allows for one to operate a vehicle with no more than three wheels, such as a tricycle. To operate a two-wheel motorized vehicle with a sustainable speed greater than 30 mph (48 km/h) requires an endorsement on the license, typically after successful completion of a theory (written) and practical test.
The minimum age in Iceland to get a C1 class (vehicles up to 7,500 kg (16,500 lb) GVWR) is 18, for a C class (vehicles exceeding 7,500 kg) one will have to have obtained a 12-point licence (obtainable without getting a ticket for a whole year) and have reached the age of 21 years.
"Indian government to introduce universal smart card driving license across the country"
^ "Learners Licence". Learning Licence Test India. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
A Hong Kong Driving Licence carries the same number as the holder's ID card, but has no photograph. As such, it is not a legal document for proof of age for purchase of alcohol. Upon control, both must be presented. Plans to make the newly phased in Smart ID contain driver licensing information have been shelved.
A1 – to drive motorcycles with engine displacement more than 50cc and less than 175cc. A1 license has no expiry date
Mandatory licensing for drivers in the United Kingdom came into force on 1 January 1904[3] after the Motor Car Act 1903 received royal assent. Every car owner had to register their vehicle with their local government authority and be able to prove registration of their vehicle on request. The minimum qualifying age was set at 17. The "driving licence" gave its holder 'freedom of the road' with a maximum 20 mph (32 km/h) speed limit.[4] Compulsory testing was introduced in 1934, with the passing of the Road Traffic Act.[5]
at the age of 21 - categories D1, D, D1E, DE, T (passenger buses, trams and trolleybuses).
"Draft: Information Technology — Personal Identification — ISO Compliant Driving Licence — Part 1: Physical Characteristics and Basic Data Set"
^ "Design of UK Driving Licences after 31 January 2020 - a Freedom of Information request to Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency" (PDF). 28 December 2019.
Small Trailer (소형견인차) – Allows one to drive a trailer under 3 tonnes with powered vehicle under 3.5 tonnes.
In Ontario, holders of a (7L) licence, which is given out by British Columbia, Alberta and Saskatchewan, are not restricted to being accompanied by a supervisor while driving in Ontario, until they get their full permit at the age of 18. Ontario has a reciprocal permit exchange scheme for Canadian provinces and territories, Canadian Forces Europe, and some other countries.[81]
^ "Vehicle Inspectorate Department (VID)". Zimbabwe. 2015. Retrieved 24 March 2019.
"History of Driving and the introduction of the UK driving licence". UK: Antonine Driving School. 2009. Retrieved 11 January 2020.
Many groupings of countries have agreed to recognize driving permits issued by the authorities of any of their members. Examples include the European Union and the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), where holders of permits issued by any member state can drive in all member states. Most countries worldwide will also recognize the permits of citizens of foreign states wishing to drive as visitors. All EU member countries now issue permits in a standard format, regardless of the language of the permit.[73]
"International Driving Permit". Australian Automobile Association. Retrieved 28 April 2019.
^ "State of Delaware Division of Motor Vehicles - Driver's License Over 18 FAQ's". Dmv.de.gov. Archived from the original on 24 October 2004. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"New Residents of Québec and Holders of a Driver's Licence Issued Outside Québec". Saaq.gouv.qc.ca. 19 January 2011. Archived from the original on 4 March 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
The classes above are also allowed by the age of the driver according to the class of the driving license. The ages are accordingly issued to the different classes of the driver's choice:
"How do I get my class 2 truck licence?". 21 August 2017.
The minimum age for getting a driving licence in Norway is 16 for A1, T (tractor), 18 for A-C1, 21 for C/D1 and 24 for D. The driver's licenses issued before 2013 are revoked when he/she has reached an age of 100. The driving licences for A-B, BE, S and T issued after 2013 are always revoked after 15 years, and can be renewed after that for more 15 years. For persons aged 60–75, the driving licence becomes invalid before the 75th birthday and subsequently a valid health certificate is needed. Then a driving licences is issued with the same length as the health certificate. The driving licences for C-D1E are revoked after 5 years and can be renewed after that for 5 more years and, with a valid health certificate a new license for C-D1E is issued every year after the age of 70.
3.2Asia																								3.2.1Azerbaijan																											3.2.2China																											3.2.3Hong Kong																											3.2.4India																											3.2.5Indonesia																											3.2.6Israel																											3.2.7Japan																								3.2.7.1Green																											3.2.7.2Blue																											3.2.7.3Gold																														3.2.8Lebanon																											3.2.9Malaysia																											3.2.10Nepal																											3.2.11Pakistan																											3.2.12Philippines																											3.2.13Singapore																											3.2.14South Korea																											3.2.15Sri Lanka																											3.2.16Taiwan																											3.2.17Thailand																											3.2.18Vietnam
Wrecker (구난) – Allows one to drive a tow truck.
As traffic-related fatalities soared in North America, public outcry provoked legislators to begin studying the French and German statutes as models.[7] On 1 August 1910, North America's first licensing law for motor vehicles went into effect in the U.S. state of New York, though it initially applied only to professional chauffeurs.[8] In July 1913, the state of New Jersey became the first to require all drivers to pass a mandatory examination before being licensed.[9]
Temporary visitors from the United States to France (less than 90 days) are permitted to drive with a valid US state driver's license. In addition to holding a US driver's license, visitors are advised (but not required) to carry an International Driving permit, or attach a French translation to their US state driver's license.
Juvenil Particular—License for minors, allowing them to drive cars and pickup trucks
Large Trailer (대형견인차) – Allows one to drive all types of trailer.
Even though Switzerland is an EFTA member state, it is not a member of the European Economic Area. Switzerland is instead linked to the EU by a series of bilateral agreements and has generally adopted much of the harmonized EU legislation with regard to driving licenses. Swiss licences can be exchanged in most EEA countries. Switzerland has, since the 2000s, used a system similar to the EU system of vehicle categories and issued credit-card licences that resemble EEA-style.
"New-style driving licences and number plates mark one-year anniversary of Brexit as EU flag is removed"
Saint Helena / Ascension Island / Tristan da Cunha (United Kingdom)
^ Western Australia and South Australia cards have driver's licence, while cards from New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania, Australian Capital Territory, Northern Territory and New Zealand have driver licence.
In Vietnam, there are classes for each driving license for which is allowed to drive a type of motor vehicle:
Texas does not require drivers from Canada, France, Germany, or Taiwan to take the written and practical tests, but drivers must agree to a vision test.[94]
an international driving permit shall only be issued by the contracting party in whose territory the holder has their normal residence and that issued the domestic driving permit or that recognized the driving permit issued by another contracting party; it shall not be valid for use in that territory.
"Design of UK Driving Licences after 31 January 2020 - a Freedom of Information request to Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency" (PDF). 28 December 2019.
^ "For organ donor entry column of driver's license (Japanese)" (in Japanese). Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 22 July 2013. Retrieved 22 July 2013.
"Exchanging your foreign driving licence". nidirect government services. 25 November 2015. Retrieved 21 February 2020.
In Venezuela the driving permit number is the same as the citizen's ID number.
The minimum driving age in the United Kingdom is 16 for mopeds under 50 cc (3.1 cu in), and 17 for cars and motorcycles. Access to motorcycles producing more than 25 kW (34 hp) is restricted to riders with two years experience or aged 21.[49] The British Overseas Territories and the British Crown dependencies issue their own driving licences. There is no legal requirement for a non-professional driver to carry a driving licence in the UK whilst driving, although it must be produced at a police station within seven days, if required to do so by a police officer.[50]
"Vehicles and Transport System Regulations" (PDF). Department of Transport Management (DoTM) (in Nepali). Government of Nepal. Retrieved 30 January 2022.
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
27 years old for issue of Driving License class: E, FD, FE
The test phase consists of a theory based test followed by a short practical test. Only those who pass the theory test are allowed to take the practical test. The whole test stage is a single day process where both tests are to be taken the same day. The driving licence currently issued holds basic information of the driver including name, Father's name, date of birth, address, authorized vehicle types, emergency contact, blood group, fingerprint impression, driver photo. The licence also has a magnetic strip though its viability is yet to be made public.
"Costos de Licencia de Conducir" (in Spanish). Csv.go.cr. Archived from the original on 15 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
The minimum age to obtain a driving licence is 16 years. During the first two years after obtaining the licence the driver is called a beginner (Macedonian: почетник) and has limited rights concerning driving speed and when he/she can drive without a co-driver in the front seat who doesn't have a drivers licence (until 23:00). Beginning in 2007, the driving licence format was changed from a pink booklet to a credit-card sized card.
The US Embassy in Berlin, supported by the US Chamber of Commerce in Germany, continues to actively press all US states, territories, and Washington, D.C. to reach an agreement on the reciprocal recognition of driver's licenses with Germany, essentially a waiver of testing requirements.[84]
at the age of 16, it is allowed to open categories A1, A (mopeds and motorcycles);
The European Union has adopted a common format for driving permits within all 30 European Economic Area member states (EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway), and a common set of driving permit categories. There are other national categories for tractors, large motorcycles, motorised wheel boats, motor tricycles (modern voiturettes, Category B1 or S), and military categories such as for driving tanks. National categories mean they are not harmonised and only valid within the issuing country.
"Vehicle Inspectorate Department (VID)". Zimbabwe. 2015. Retrieved 24 March 2019.
Each state in Australia has different rules for how long a visitor can drive on an international license or a license from a different state. For example, New South Wales allows three months[78] whereas Victoria allows six months.[79] Drivers that move permanently to another state must change their license to a local state license within the prescribed time. This is usually free. In some states, drivers with a full New Zealand driver licence are treated as interstate drivers.
^ "District of Columbia: Department of Motor Vehicles - Services - Drivers' Licenses - Getting Your Learners' Permit". Dmv.dc.gov. Archived from the original on 26 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
3.5North America																								3.5.1Barbados																											3.5.2Canada																											3.5.3Costa Rica																											3.5.4El Salvador																											3.5.5Jamaica																											3.5.6Mexico																											3.5.7Trinidad and Tobago																											3.5.8United States
The specifications of the layout of the booklet is defined in Annex G of ISO/IEC 18013-1:2018. There are two options; a booklet with some personalisation or a booklet with no personalisation. The booklet shall be marginally larger than an ID-1 size card, with an insert pocket for storage of the card, and for convenient carrying of the booklet. The front cover should include the logo of the UN or the issuing country and the words "Translation of Driving Licence" and "Traduction du Permis de Conduire ".
It isn't difficult to get a driving licence in Thailand. In fact it is accessible to foreigners too. When the package of documents will be collected the person needs to appeal to the Transport Authority and sign up for the exam. Waiting time usually is near one month.
In the United Kingdom, one must hold a Passenger Carrying Vehicle (PCV) Licence to drive a vehicle with more than eight passenger seats for hire or reward, or a Large Goods Vehicle (LGV) Licence to drive a vehicle with a Gross Vehicle Weight (Maximum Authorized Mass) in excess of 3,500 kg (7,700 lb). Licences and Driver Certificate of Professional Competence qualification cards must be carried whilst driving vehicles in such categories. Special licences are also required in order to transport hazardous materials.
"domestic driving permits" conforming to the provisions of Annex 6 to the convention;
^ "Driving in Melbourne". Live in Melbourne. State Government of Victoria. 21 November 2017.
"State of Delaware Division of Motor Vehicles - Driver's License Over 18 FAQ's"
After the theory test learner drivers have to start practical driving lessons covering key driving skills. To qualify for a driving test one must have completed thirty lessons.
^ "EU-Turkey relations". European Information on Enlargement & Neighbours. EurActiv.com. 23 September 2004. Archived from the original on 6 December 2006. Retrieved 26 August 2008.
The minimum age for a permit to ride two wheelers is 16. For light vehicles with four wheels it is 18. After 2 years experience with light vehicles a permit can be obtained to drive private hire and heavy vehicles. However, once the age of 60 years is reached permits can not be renewed for private hire and heavy vehicles.[37]
^ "Drivers can renew licence on birthday from Nov 21". The Malaysian Insider. 15 November 2011. Archived from the original on 1 February 2014. Retrieved 22 January 2014.
5.1Issues when moving permanently from one country or one state to another																								5.1.1Australia																											5.1.2Canada																											5.1.3France																											5.1.4Germany																											5.1.5Hong Kong																											5.1.6Singapore																											5.1.7Sweden																											5.1.8United Kingdom																								5.1.8.1Great Britain																											5.1.8.2Northern Ireland																														5.1.9United States
"domestic driving permits" issued by a contracting party shall be recognised in the territory of another contracting party until this territory becomes the place of normal residence of their holder;
Residents in Sweden having a foreign permit can exchange it for a Swedish licence, if it is from an EEA country, Switzerland or Japan.[87] Foreign licences are valid if the holder has not been living in Sweden for more than a year (and some more requirements).
A Driver's License from any US state is valid for temporary use in any other US state, although most states require that a person have a license issued by their state of primary residence. Most states allow residents to convert an out-of-state license to an in-state license without any additional written or road tests.
Driver's licences have in Europe a categorisation based on the following letters:
at the age of 18 - categories B1, B, C1, C (ATVs, cars, trucks);
The current licence style, introduced in 2011, is a laminated plastic card similar to the European driving licence card in dimensions and outward appearance, with the bearer's photo and name (in Latin and Cyrillic scripts), place/date of issue, allowed categories, and signature. The reverse of the card features a detailed list of allowed categories. This new style is fully compliant with the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, and therefore is acceptable in all its signatory states and countries. Older credit-card-style and booklet-style licenses are also occasionally seen although they are no longer issued and are increasingly rare as a result. The Russian driving licence is also sometimes supplemented by a special card called "временное разрешение" (temporary permission), which serves for registering offense points and as a temporary licence if the primary license has been seized by the authorities for serious traffic offenses.[40] This supplement has been abolished and reinstated a countless number of times as the views of the traffic police change.
^ "Applying driving licence for the first time". tra.go.tz. Tanzania Revenue Authority. Retrieved 24 March 2019. The objective of this system is to monitor and control the issuance of driving licenses with a view to addressing the problem of fake licences which are the cause for many road accidents. This is because the system allows everybody to obtain any license and drive any car one prefers. However under the current system holders of driving license of certain class will be obliged to drive only such a class upon which he was tested for and not otherwise. At the initial stage the applicant will have to undergo biometric measures and finger prints.
^ "免許更新時講習について" [Regarding the Driver's License Renewal Period Training] (in Japanese). Fukui Prefecture. Retrieved 9 October 2014.
Frederick H. Elliott, "Working Out New Auto Law In New York," New York Times 1910-10-16, 3.
There is an online procedure hosted by Nepal's Department of Transport Management with a written exam only for new applicants. Subsequent written exams are not necessary to add additional categories to an existing permit. A practical, road test is undertaken after passing the written exam.
"California Commercial Driver Handbook". Archived from the original on 11 October 2003. Retrieved 25 October 2006.
^ Haron, Sharif (4 February 2012). "Concern over teenage driving safety". New Straits Times. Archived from the original on 4 February 2012. Retrieved 22 January 2014.
^ "American Driver's License - Germany - United States Diplomatic Mission". Archived from the original on 13 October 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
Large (대형) – A permit which allows one to drive every vehicle except trailers and wreckers. It allows one to drive cargo truck, passenger bus, construction equipment for commercial purposes. Type 1 Large permit holders can apply for a tram driving license.
^ "Texas Administrative Code". Info.sos.state.tx.us. Archived from the original on 13 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
The person has held a full driving licence (not an International Driving Permit) for three years issued by one of the following countries or territories: Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bermuda, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Guernsey, Iceland, India, Ireland, the Isle of Man, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jersey, Luxembourg, Macao, Malaysia, Namibia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, or the United States.
^ Jones, Allison (14 May 2019). "Ontario plans to eliminate enhanced driver's licences used at border crossings". CTV News. Canadian Press. Retrieved 14 May 2019.
B2 Public (B2 UMUM) - to drive commercial vehicles for towing or pull cart trailer with heavy patch that are allowed to train more than 1,000 kg trailer
In Japan, South Korea, and Singapore, driving permit cards are widely used as identification.[16]
The licence was originally issued on any date during a period of residence of not less than 6 months in the country or place of issue (entry and departure stamps on a passport, school transcript or employer's testimonial with employment period specified are accepted as proof); or
Foreign licence conversion is only granted for class 2B and class 3 qualified driving licences.
"Texas Department of Public Safety". xdps.state.tx.us. Retrieved 27 September 2015.[permanent dead link]
The driving entitlement(s) for which one is applying must be equivalent to the class(es) which are authorized by the issuing country or place; and
As stated on the application form for direct issue of a full Hong Kong driving licence (Rev. 11/2008),[85] when a person has documentary evidence to the Commissioner for Transport's satisfaction that all of the following apply, the person is eligible for direct issue of a Hong Kong permit:
^ "Directgov *'exchange driving licence' interactive tool". Direct.gov.uk. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
an "International Driving Permit" conforming to the provisions of Annex 7 to the convention, on condition that it is presented with the corresponding domestic driving permit;
"Convention on Road Traffic". Chapter XI: B, Convention No. 1. The United Nations Secretariat. 19 September 1949.
China, at present, does not recognize IDPs and requires drivers to get an additional Chinese licence before being officially allowed on all roads. Holders of foreign permits are exempt from certain requirements when obtaining a Chinese permit.
^ "California Commercial Driver Handbook". Archived from the original on 11 October 2003. Retrieved 25 October 2006.
El Salvador licenses (as well as vehicle circulation cards) contain a chip which can be read by putting the card in a chip reader.
"Conversion of Foreign Driving Licence". Singapore Government. Archived from the original on 28 June 2011. Retrieved 4 February 2016.
"Department of Motor Vehicles Virginia" (PDF). dmv.virginia.gov. Retrieved 27 September 2015.
2Use for identification purposes											Toggle Use for identification purposes subsection																					2.1Asia																											2.2Europe																											2.3North America																											2.4South America
The theoretical exam must be taken in either German, French, or Italian. In some cantons it is possible to take it in English.
^ "About driver licences: Stage 1 – learner licence". NZ Transport Agency. Retrieved 8 December 2016.
In Nigeria, the minimum age to qualify for a drivers licence is 18. The applicant would first attend training at an accredited driving school. Then, the driving school will present the applicant to a Vehicle Inspection Officer (VIO) for a driving test. Upon passing the driving test the applicant would obtain a certificate of proficiency from the VIO. The applicant then completes a drivers license application form at the Drivers Licence Centre (DLC) or downloads the form online. Afterwards he pays a licence fee online or at the Bank and presents his application form to the Board of Internal Revenue (BIR) Officer and VIO at the DLC for endorsement. After all these procedures he goes to the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Officer at the DLC for biometric data capture. He is given a temporary drivers licence which is valid for 60 days. He picks up the original drivers licence at the BIR Office after 60 days.
There are different plastic cards for motorcycles and vehicles. Therefore, documents and exams need to be done twice.[38]
The driving licence was obtained by passing the relevant driving test(s) in the issuing country or territory; and
^ "Convention on Road Traffic". Chapter XI: B, Convention No. 1. The United Nations Secretariat. 19 September 1949.
Driving licences are issued by the Tanzania Revenue Authority. The legal driving age for motorcycles is 16 and for other motor vehicles is 18.[24]
F – a group of licenses for any semi-trailer vehicles (FB2, FC) or articulated vehicles (FD, FE) listed in specific type of license above. All F licenses is valid for 5 years.
In Mexico the issue of a licencia para conducir is regulated by each state, and they all have different rules and requirements. However, all state issued driving permits are recognized across Mexico, and International Driving Permits (IDP) are also recognized.
^ "New-style driving licences and number plates mark one-year anniversary of Brexit as EU flag is removed". GOV.UK. Retrieved 9 March 2021.
"6 CFR § 37.29 - Prohibition against holding more than one REAL ID card or more than one driver's license". LII / Legal Information Institute. Retrieved 8 August 2020.
Hold a passport or an equivalent travel document of the country or territory in which the license was issued.
"Brexit: What are the rules on driving in the EU after transition?"
^ "Conversion of Foreign Driving Licence". Singapore Government. Archived from the original on 28 June 2011. Retrieved 4 February 2016.
^ "The Motor Car Act, 1903 - The Motor Miscellany". Retrieved 23 May 2017.
"AAMVA - DL ID Card Design Standard". www.aamva.org. Retrieved 26 January 2021.
The exam includes theoretical and practical parts held on the same day. Reaction tests are conducted before the exam. The applicant gets a temporary ID valid for one year. It may be extended for five years, but only if the applicant lives in Thailand on a non-immigrant visa. An International Driving Permit is recognized in Thailand. With its help it is easy to get a local permit without doing the exams.
^ "New York State Department of Motor Vehicles - NYS DMV - NYSDMV - Driver - Vehicle". Nydmv.state.ny.us. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"New York's Auto Exports Increase-Big Jump in Cars Shipped Last Year-New Jersey Examines All Drivers"
Motorized Bicycle (원동기장치자전거) – Allows one to drive a motorcycle under 125cc.
^ "Travel documents for EU nationals". Your Europe. 7 July 2017. Retrieved 27 August 2017.
Government-issued ID cards are also issued to out-of-state residents and those who do not drive automobiles.[citation needed] For example, college students enrolled in an institution of higher education outside their state of residence receive an ID Card (for example, a domiciled Texas resident enrolled at UCLA where the individual retains their Texas Driver License and holds a California state issued ID card) which is used for bank account and financial affairs. This is also applicable to those who own business assets and not domiciled in a state or city as a resident (for example, someone domiciled in Los Angeles and owning either a business or real estate property in Florida). In the U.S, no individual is permitted to hold multiple valid driver licenses simultaneously.[22]
In Canada and the United States, the abbreviation DLN is commonly used for a driver's license number. Five states in the northern United States (Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Vermont and Washington) and two provinces in Canada (British Columbia and Manitoba) also offer an "enhanced driver's license" (EDL), which is a driving permit that has an embedded RFID chip and is accepted at the federal level in lieu of a passport for land and sea (but not air) border crossings between the US and Canada. The EDL program was also previously offered in Ontario and Quebec, but is no longer offered there.[23]
The system for handling the penalty points remains different in each country, for the existence of points, initial number of points, revolving, and number of points removed (or added) for each penalty.
"A Brief History of Driver Education in the UK". derf.org.uk.
A Class A license is required to obtain the T endorsement.
B1 – to drive private passenger under 9 seats, cargo vehicle or tractor with weight allowed not exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb). B1 license is not allowed to practice. B1 license is valid until male reach 60 years old and female reach 55 years old
Florida has a reciprocal license agreement with South Korea, allowing South Korea licenses to be exchanged for a Florida license, and vice versa, without taking a written or road test.[92]
A driver is allowed a learner's permit at the age of 15 (in some states), with a fee of approximately 100 US dollars, a year's validity, and a requirement to drive with an adult at all times. At the age of 16, the fee drops to about 30 US dollars, and a driving permit is issued with some usage restrictions, depending on the state, such as a curfew. Drivers are allowed a full permit when a driver turns 18.
Egyptian citizens are entitled to a driver's licence once they have reached the age of 18. To obtain their licences, applicants must pass a driving test as well as several computer test. To pass, all a person had to do was drive six metres forward and then reverse six metres. The test was updated to make it more difficult; now the applicant has to get 8 out of 10 answers correct in a computer test, then pass a forward and reverse S-track test in addition to an assessment of parking skills.
Third Degree License (motor vehicles for the private transportation of persons, with a capacity of up to nine seats, including that of the driver; vehicles destined to the transport of load, whose maximum weight does not exceed two thousand five hundred kilograms): Type "A", to people over sixteen years and under eighteen, subject to the special legal regime; Type "B", to persons over eighteen years of age.
^ "Transport - Driving license". Ec.europa.eu. 22 October 2003. Archived from the original on 11 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
The Gold License is granted to any driver who, at the point of license renewal, has at least five years of clean driving history (no driving infractions).[32][33] According to implications in the Road Traffic Laws Reforms that took place on May 10, 1995, all such licenses are marked with a gold band over the license's expiration date as well as the word 優良 (excellent) printed in black, below.
If approved, drivers from Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Delaware, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Washington state, Wisconsin, and Wyoming will be exempted from both the road and written driving tests.
Driver's licensing in Ghana is conducted by the nation's Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authority. The legal driving age is 18.
All driver's licenses are given by the government agency SERTRACEN (Servicios de Tránsito Centroamericanos S.A. de C.V.).
In Turkey you must be at least 18 years old in order to drive a car or motorbike and at least 16 to drive a motorbike (up to 125cc, unless 18+). The driving test comprises a practical and theory test, which has been recently made tougher in order to meet European Union regulations.[46]
Discounts (up to five-fold discounts) for sightseeing, museums, etc. can be obtained
"Travel documents for EU nationals". Your Europe. 7 July 2017. Retrieved 27 August 2017.
US state driver's licenses can be exchanged from the 18 states below during the first year of legal residence in France: Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin.[83]
"Application For Direct Issue Of Full Hong Kong Driving Licence" (PDF). Retrieved 4 February 2012.
Karl Benz, inventor of the modern car, received a written "Genehmigung" (permit) from the Grand Ducal authorities to operate his car on public roads in 1888 after residents complained about the noise and smell of his Motorwagen.[2] Up until the start of the 20th century, European authorities issued similar permits to drive motor vehicles ad hoc, if at all.[2]
Small (소형) – Allows one to drive all types of motorcycle.
"Directgov *'exchange driving licence' interactive tool". Direct.gov.uk. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
The minimum driving age in South Africa is 17, when drivers may drive with an adult who holds a valid driving licence, after passing a learner's theory test. At 18, a driving licence can be obtained after passing the road test. Small motorcycles may be driven from the age of 16. To obtain a permit, applicants must pass a written or computer-based test to obtain a learner's licence, and then pass a road test to obtain the driving license. Categories for permits include CODE B (normal vehicles), CODE C1 (LDV), CODE EC (heavy trucks), CODE A (motorcycle).The learners licence theory test will contain three sets of questions with multiple answer options; test-takers will have to select the correct answer. Some Driving Licence Test Centres use computers for the test, whereas others require test-takers to complete the test using a test paper and pen.[citation needed]
^ "Motorcycles you can ride". Directgov. Retrieved 8 June 2011.
A "Cook Islands Driving Licence" (Obverse - called a "License to Drive a Motor Vehicle" on its face)is issued at police headquarters in Avarua on the main island of Rarotonga, on production of a valid permit from the visitor's home country. To use a scooter or motor cycle (the main hire vehicles for tourists) a short test has to be taken by anyone whose home permit is only valid for cars, in which a police officer observes the applicant riding up and down the main street of the capital.
^ "About drivers licences: Stage 2 – restricted licence". NZ Transport Agency.
Delaware has a reciprocal license exchange for Germany, France, and Taiwan to allow holders of those licenses to obtain a Delaware license without any additional written or road tests.[90]
Vietnam has a minimum age of 16 for mopeds under 50 cc (3.1 cu in) and 18 for motorcycles producing more than 50 cc (3.1 cu in). Minimum age for holding a driving permit is 18 for cars and small truck, 21 for commercial vehicles.[citation needed]
Jones, Allison (14 May 2019). "Ontario plans to eliminate enhanced driver's licences used at border crossings". CTV News. Canadian Press. Retrieved 14 May 2019.
The licence has been issued for not less than 5 years immediately before the application; or
^ Asa Bennett (27 January 2020). "How will the Brexit transition period work?". Telegraph.
"Application For Direct Issue Of Full Hong Kong Driving Licence"
"免許更新時講習について" [Regarding the Driver's License Renewal Period Training] (in Japanese). Fukui Prefecture. Retrieved 9 October 2014.
Carlos Josue Quinteros Berrios. "Homologacion Licencia Extranjera" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 8 May 2014. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
Drivers are legally obliged to carry a valid driving licence whilst driving and this must be produced if required to do so by a police officer.
^ a b c d .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Lutteroth, Johanna. "Der Lappen, der die Welt bedeutet". einestages (in German). Spiegel Online. Archived from the original on 1 August 2008. Retrieved 2 August 2008.
Haron, Sharif (4 February 2012). "Concern over teenage driving safety". New Straits Times. Archived from the original on 4 February 2012. Retrieved 22 January 2014.
Driving licences are issued by subdivisions of the General Administration for Traffic Safety of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and grant the right to drive on-road vehicles only. The right to drive off-road vehicles is granted by tractorist-machinist's licence,[42] which is issued by state inspections of the supervision of the technical condition of self-propelled machines and other machinery Гостехнадзор [ru] (these state inspections are parts of the regional governments of federal subjects of Russia and may have different names). The Ministry of Agriculture approves the form of the license and the procedure for issuing it. There are 9 categories in tractorist-machinist's licence: AI (quad bikes, snowmobiles and other off-road vehicles with steering that is similar to motorcycle's steering), AII (wheeled cross-country vehicles weighing less than 3,500 kg, including amphibious snow-and-swamp vehicles such as TREKOL-39294, VIKING-29031, etc.), AIII (haul trucks), AIV (off-road buses), B (wheeled and caterpillar tractors with engine power less than 25,7 kW), C (wheeled tractors with engine power from 25,7 kW to 110,3 kW), D (wheeled tractors with engine power over 110,3 kW), E (caterpillar tractors with engine power over 25,7 kW), F (self-propelled agricultural machinery). To obtain the tractorist-machinist's license with AII category applicant must have at least 1-year driving experience by category B of driving licence, AIII category - category C of driving licence, AIV category - category D of driver's license. For getting the tractorist-machinist's licence applicant has to pass theoretical and practice exam on the program approved by the Ministry of Agriculture. If applicant doesn't have the driver's license he also has to pass theoretical exam on the program approved by the General Administration for Traffic Safety of the Ministry of Internal Affairs (knowledge of traffic rules). In the case of deprivation of driving licence by court decision, both licences are lost.
The legal driving age of Moroccan citizens is 18.[citation needed]
"Appendix C to Part 658". Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. Archived from the original on 13 February 2008. Retrieved 4 February 2008.
"List of contracting party states in the current version of the German International Driving Permit according to the 1926 Convention on Motor Traffic"
"US Drivers License Application". US Immigration Support: Your Guide to US Visas, Green Cards, and Citizenship. Archived from the original on 5 July 2010. Retrieved 1 October 2010.
British Columbia has a reciprocal licence exchange scheme with other Canadian provinces and territories as well as other countries provided the licence is still valid or has been expired for less than three years.[80]
Type 2 (2종) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 10 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 4 tonnes, when the driver is driving with somebody with a non-practice license.
Fourth and Fifth Degree Licenses: To persons over 21 years of age to drive vehicles with a capacity of up to nine seats destined for public transport of passengers and cargo vehicles, whose maximum weight does not exceed six thousand kilograms. Persons over twenty-five years old, to drive all types of vehicles whatever their capacity or use.[72]
In Barbados, a person 16 years or over can apply for a Learner's Permit which allows them to drive for a specified period with an accompanying tutor. During that period they will be tested on their driving skill and their knowledge of road signs and traffic laws. On passing both the written and driving test the full driving licence is issued. Once issued a driving licence is valid for a period of one to five years depending on which period of time the driver chooses to pay for. On the expiry of the period for which the licence is issued, it will become renewable on the last day of the driver's birth month and will again be valid for the time period for which payment is made. Visitors and non-nationals who are the holders of a valid driver's permit issued in their country of residence or origin are not allowed to drive automatically in Barbados but must go to a police station to have a temporary local driving licence issued. The licence is issued on payment of a fee and the production of the visitor's existing permit.
^ "lplate - Zimbabwe Provisional Driving Lessons". Zimbabwe. Retrieved 24 March 2019.
Haber, Hürriyet (22 February 2016). "Ehliyet yenileme randevu işlemleri nasıl yapılır?". Gündem (in Turkish). Hürriyet Gazetecilik. Retrieved 4 July 2017.
"Brexit: What are the rules on driving in the EU after transition?". BBC News. 27 December 2020. Retrieved 29 December 2020.
Other countries in Europe also introduced driving tests during the twentieth century, the last of them being Belgium where, until as recently as 1977, it was possible to purchase and hold a permit without having to undergo a driving test.[6]
Driving in Thailand without a driving licence is prohibited and is punishable by fines. Moreover, in case of a road accident, a driver without a permit can be considered as the guilty party. Also, an unlicensed driver who was in a road accident will be refused medical insurance payments
^ "International Driving permit in UK". The American Journal of International Law. ITCA. 4 (4 Supplement:Official Documents): 316–328. October 1910. JSTOR 2212082.
"DriveTest - Exchanging a Reciprocal License". Drivetest.ca. Archived from the original on 30 January 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"Applying driving licence for the first time". tra.go.tz. Tanzania Revenue Authority. Retrieved 24 March 2019. The objective of this system is to monitor and control the issuance of driving licenses with a view to addressing the problem of fake licences which are the cause for many road accidents. This is because the system allows everybody to obtain any license and drive any car one prefers. However under the current system holders of driving license of certain class will be obliged to drive only such a class upon which he was tested for and not otherwise. At the initial stage the applicant will have to undergo biometric measures and finger prints.
3Permits for different categories of vehicles											Toggle Permits for different categories of vehicles subsection																					3.1Africa																								3.1.1Egypt																											3.1.2Ghana																											3.1.3Kenya																											3.1.4Morocco																											3.1.5Nigeria																											3.1.6South Africa																											3.1.7Tanzania																											3.1.8Zimbabwe																														3.2Asia																								3.2.1Azerbaijan																											3.2.2China																											3.2.3Hong Kong																											3.2.4India																											3.2.5Indonesia																											3.2.6Israel																											3.2.7Japan																								3.2.7.1Green																											3.2.7.2Blue																											3.2.7.3Gold																														3.2.8Lebanon																											3.2.9Malaysia																											3.2.10Nepal																											3.2.11Pakistan																											3.2.12Philippines																											3.2.13Singapore																											3.2.14South Korea																											3.2.15Sri Lanka																											3.2.16Taiwan																											3.2.17Thailand																											3.2.18Vietnam																														3.3European Economic Area																								3.3.1Austria																											3.3.2Belgium																											3.3.3Bulgaria																											3.3.4Croatia																											3.3.5Cyprus																											3.3.6Denmark																											3.3.7Finland																											3.3.8France																											3.3.9Germany																											3.3.10Greece																											3.3.11Iceland																											3.3.12Ireland																											3.3.13Italy																											3.3.14Netherlands																											3.3.15Norway																											3.3.16Poland																											3.3.17Romania																											3.3.18Spain																											3.3.19Sweden																														3.4Rest of Europe																								3.4.1Albania																											3.4.2North Macedonia																											3.4.3Russia																											3.4.4Switzerland																											3.4.5Turkey																											3.4.6Ukraine																											3.4.7United Kingdom																														3.5North America																								3.5.1Barbados																											3.5.2Canada																											3.5.3Costa Rica																											3.5.4El Salvador																											3.5.5Jamaica																											3.5.6Mexico																											3.5.7Trinidad and Tobago																											3.5.8United States																														3.6Oceania																								3.6.1Australia																											3.6.2Cook Islands																											3.6.3New Zealand																														3.7South America																								3.7.1Brazil																											3.7.2Peru																											3.7.3Venezuela
"About drivers licences: Stage 2 – restricted licence". NZ Transport Agency.
The minimum age for obtaining a driver's license in Romania is 18 ("Minimum legal age in Romania")
"Transport - Driving license". Ec.europa.eu. 22 October 2003. Archived from the original on 11 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
^ "AAMVA - DL ID Card Design Standard". www.aamva.org. Retrieved 26 January 2021.
One needs a minimum of 15 years to receive a driver's license (a juvenile license).[57] To get a new license, one needs to pass a vision test, a written test, and a driving test. These tests are given at accredited driving schools. Foreigners with a license from another country can obtain an El Salvador license if they have residency. They will also have to pass a vision test.[58] The driver's license number is the same as the person's Tax ID number.
"Drivers can renew licence on birthday from Nov 21". The Malaysian Insider. 15 November 2011. Archived from the original on 1 February 2014. Retrieved 22 January 2014.
"ГАИ РУ – Информационный портал: автомобильные новости, оплата штрафов ГИБДД – Форум автомобилистов – Справочная информация для автовладельцев" (in Russian). Archived from the original on 10 May 2000. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
Many European countries require drivers to produce their permit on demand when driving. Some European countries require adults to carry proof of identity at all times, but a driving permit is not valid for identification in every European country.[17]
The right to drive a vehicle is granted to persons who have achieved:
In order to convert a foreign permit to a Singapore driving licence, passing the Basic Theory Test (BTT) is required. Overseas theory test results are not admissible for consideration.[86]
^ "A Brief History of Driver Education in the UK". derf.org.uk.
For this permit to be granted there are three needed tests, practical driving (includes driving a car in simulated streets), theoretical driving (a multiple selection written test based on booklet issued by the education department or after taking a special course), and finally a medical test performed by a medical practitioner that tests eyesight, blood pressure and attests the presence of other diseases and behavior of the driver.
"SOS - CDL Group Designations and Endorsements". www.michigan.gov. Retrieved 1 September 2017.
If approved, drivers from Connecticut, District of Columbia, Florida, Indiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee will be exempted from the road tests only.
The minimum age for getting a driver's licence in Iceland is 17 for a B class license, a B class licence will qualify a person to drive low powered motorcycles (50 cc (3.1 cu in) two stroke or equivalent, for more powerful bikes one will have to obtain an A class license), Tractors, ATVs and automobiles that do not exceed a GVWR of 3,500 kg (7,700 lb) or 8 passengers.
"Driving license:Getting a driving license in Turkey". justlanded.com. Just Landed. Retrieved 4 July 2017.
"Texas Administrative Code". Info.sos.state.tx.us. Archived from the original on 13 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
^ "List of contracting party states in the current version of the German International Driving Permit according to the 1926 Convention on Motor Traffic" (PDF) (in German). Bundesministerium der Justiz und für Verbraucherschutz (Federal Ministry for Justice and Consumer protection of the Federal Republic of Germany. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
In the United States, New Zealand, Australia, the UK, the Republic of Ireland and sometimes Canada, people who drive commercially are required to have permits. The cost of taking the tests and examinations usually means that an employer will subsidize their drivers.
"ICBC - Driver licensing". Archived from the original on 28 September 2011.
Northern Ireland. Although part of the UK, driving licences are issued by the Driver and Vehicle Agency (DVA or DVANI) in Northern Ireland,
In Sri Lanka, a driving licence is the official document which authorizes its holder to operate various types of motor vehicles on public roads. They are administered by the Department of Motor Traffic (DMT). The minimum age is 18 years for all vehicle types.
Every citizen can solicit a driver's license at age 18, after being issued the first time, the license must be renewed after two years, and every successive occasion after five years.[56] Foreigners may also obtain a drivers' license if they have residency.
Certain states, such as California,[62] Florida,[63] Michigan,[64] and New York[65] prohibit triple trailers statewide.
The European driving licence was introduced to replace the 110 different plastic and paper driving permits. The common format with the same information in the same place on all permits allows documents to be understood, even if they are in a different language.
Ukrainian driving licences are official documents which authorize their respective holders to operate various types of motor vehicle on public roads.
"Driving in Melbourne". Live in Melbourne. State Government of Victoria. 21 November 2017.
In South Korea, one must hold a driving license called "운전면허증" or an international driving permit. The international driving permit is valid for 1 year starting from the date of entry. If one is going to stay in South Korea longer than a year, it is necessary to change the international permit to a local permit by visiting the driver's license testing center.
"Foreign Driver's Licences" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 August 2010. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
In India, people aged 50 or more, have to undergo strict medical tests in order to obtain a permit that has limited validity and requires renewal every five years. A Commercial Driving Licence is valid for 3 years and then requires to be renewed.
^ "ICBC - Driver licensing". Archived from the original on 28 September 2011.
every driver of a motor vehicle must hold appropriate documentation;
B2 - to drive heavy equipment vehicles, towing vehicles, or motor vehicles with attractive patch or trailer train individuals with severe or patches are allowed to train more than 1,000 kg (2,200 lb) trailer/s
all of the above does not apply to learner-driver permits;
^ "福岡県警察 渡辺通優良運転者免許更新センター（渡辺通ゴールド免許センター" [Fukuoka Prefectural Police Watanabe Avenue Excellent Driver License Renewal Center (Watanabe Avenue Gold License Center)] (in Japanese). 福岡県警察 (Fukuoka Prefectural Police). Retrieved 8 October 2014.
Turkey has been an associate member since 1963, and its application to accede to the European Economic Community, the predecessor of the European Union (EU), was made on 14 April 1987.[43] Turkey signed a Customs Union agreement with the EU in 1995 and was officially recognized as a candidate for full membership on 12 December 1999, at the Helsinki summit of the European Council.
The notion of an "International Driving Permit" was first mooted in an international convention held in Paris in 1926, .[11]
"American Driver's License - Germany - United States Diplomatic Mission"
"В сервисных центрах МВД Украины начали выдавать международные водительские права"
^ "Appendix C to Part 658". Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. Archived from the original on 13 February 2008. Retrieved 4 February 2008.
"Agreement Promotes Safety And Convenience For New Residents". Archived from the original on 22 August 2010. Retrieved 4 February 2016.
Until the UK left the European Union on 1 February 2020, UK driving licences were European driving licences. During the transition period EU law continued to apply to the UK in accordance with the withdrawal agreement,[51] and hence, UK driving licences were valid in the EU and, EU driving licences in the UK until the transition period ended 31 December 2020. The EU flag was removed from UK driving licences when the transition period ended.[52][53] From 1 January 2021, UK licence holders are still able to use their driving licence to drive in the EU for short visits, with some exceptions.[54][55] International Driving Permits, as well as arrangements within the Common Travel Area will facilitate driving possibilities between the UK and the EU/EEA countries in those cases.
A Learner's Permit can be obtained at age 17. After passing both a written and practical test a full "Driver's Licence" can be obtained which will expire on the holder's fifth birthday after the date of issue.[60]
"В Украине с 29 декабря появятся новые отметки в водительских удостоверениях"
Many countries, including Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States, have no national identification cards. Since many people do have driving permits, they are often accepted as proof of identity. In some territories, non-drivers can apply for identification-only cards with a similar format to a driving permit. Most identity cards and driving permits are credit card size—the "ID-1" size and shape defined in ISO/IEC 7810.
"Altes vom Auto: Meldungen aus 125 Jahren:Tops und Flops (a summary of the highlights and lowlights of the first 125 years of motoring history)". Auto Motor u. Sport. 4: 16. 27 January 2011.
5.1Issues when moving permanently from one country or one state to another
"About driver licences: New Zealand's driver licensing system". NZ Transport Agency. Retrieved 8 December 2016.
In Canada and the United States, driving permits are issued by the provinces (or territories) and states, respectively and do not look the same nationwide. They are also used as a de facto or government-issued identification document for the holder.
In Indonesia, to drive a motor vehicle, one must own a legal Indonesian Driving License (Indonesian: Surat Izin Mengemudi or SIM). It is a card which legally permits one to drive a motor vehicle. In Indonesia, there are classes for each driving license for which is allowed to drive a type of motor vehicle:
Driving licences in Singapore are issued by the traffic police. The minimum age to obtain a provisional driving licence (PDL), which allows the holder to practice driving while under the supervision of an authorised driving instructor, is 18. A provisional driving licence is obtained once the individual has passed the basic theory test. PDL holders are then required to sit for and pass the final theory test before they are allowed to sit for the practical driving test. Once they have passed the practical driving test, they are issued with a driving licence which allows for driving without supervision, though new drivers are required to display probationary plates when driving for the first year after their licence is issued.
The legal driving age is 18 years old. The permit must include:
"กรมการขนส่งทางบก" [Department of Land Transport] (in Thai). Thailand: กรมการขนส่งทางบก [Department of Land Transport]. Retrieved 21 September 2018.
^ "В Украине с 29 декабря появятся новые отметки в водительских удостоверениях". gordonua.com (in Russian). Retrieved 28 December 2021.
In 2018, ISO/IEC standard 18013 was published which established guidelines for the design format and data content of an ISO-compliant driving licence (IDL). The design approach is to establish a secure domestic driving permit (DDP) and accompanying booklet for international use, instead of the international driving permit (IDP) paper document.[14][15] The main ideology is a minimum acceptable set of requirements with regards to content and layout of the data elements, with sufficient freedom afforded to the issuing authorities of driving licences to meet domestic needs.
Most issuing authorities require holders of foreign permits taking up residence in their jurisdiction to obtain a local driving permit within a limited time, typically 6 months or 1 year. In most cases, the driver must follow the full local procedure for obtaining a permit, but some jurisdictions have mutual recognition agreements and will exchange the foreign permit for a local one without the need to undertake an additional driving test.
S School Bus (written and driving test, background check, sex offender registry check, and P endorsement)
"В сервисных центрах МВД Украины начали выдавать международные водительские права". delo.ua (in Russian). Retrieved 10 February 2017.
^ "Brexit: What are the rules on driving in the EU after transition?". BBC News. 27 December 2020. Retrieved 29 December 2020.
"愛知県警察／運転免許に関すること" [Aichi Prefectural Police/Driver's License Concerns] (in Japanese). 愛知県警察 (Aichi Prefectural Police). Retrieved 9 October 2014.
Asa Bennett (27 January 2020). "How will the Brexit transition period work?". Telegraph.
E – to drive private or commercial vehicle over 30 seats. E license is valid for 5 years
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2 February 2021. Retrieved 26 January 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
"Draft: Information Technology — Personal Identification — ISO Compliant Driving Licence — Part 1: Physical Characteristics and Basic Data Set" (PDF). 12 January 2018 – via tttfp.org.
Carlos Josue Quinteros Berrios. "Primera Vez" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
If you are a resident of France (holder of a carte de séjour or carte de résidence), you may drive in France with a valid US state driver's license for a one-year recognition period, beginning on the date of validity of the first carte de séjour (exception for students who are allowed to use their driver's license for the duration of their studies). In addition to having a US state driver's license, residents are also required to attach a French translation done by a sworn translator, or expert traducteur or traducteur assermenté.
A4 – to drive tractor with weight allowed not exceeding 1,000 kg (2,200 lb). A4 license is valid for 10 years
Prussia, then a kingdom within the German Empire, introduced compulsory licensing on 29 September 1903. A test on mechanical aptitude had to be passed and the Dampfkesselüberwachungsverein ("steam boiler supervision association") was charged with conducting these tests.[2] In 1910, the German imperial government mandated the licensing of drivers on a national scale, establishing a system of tests and driver's education requirements that was adopted in other countries.[2]
"Visit Europe from 1 January 2021". GOV.UK. Retrieved 29 December 2020.
There are several categories of drivers' licenses in El Salvador:[59]
Practice License (Equivalent to Learner's Permit)Type 1 (1종) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 15 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 12 tonnes, when the driver is driving with somebody with a non-practice license.Type 2 (2종) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 10 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 4 tonnes, when the driver is driving with somebody with a non-practice license.
A New York State driver's license may be obtained by a resident of another country. If the driver has a driver's license from any nation except Canada, they must pass a written test, complete a 5-hour pre-licensing course, and pass a road test to qualify for a driver's license.[93]
"About driver licences: Stage 1 – learner licence". NZ Transport Agency. Retrieved 8 December 2016.
"Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2 February 2021. Retrieved 26 January 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ Frederick H. Elliott, "Working Out New Auto Law In New York," New York Times 1910-10-16, 3.
^ "Road Users' Code, Chapter 5 For All Drivers". Transport Department, Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Retrieved 8 November 2022.
"EU-Turkey relations". European Information on Enlargement & Neighbours. EurActiv.com. 23 September 2004. Archived from the original on 6 December 2006. Retrieved 26 August 2008.
^ "Application For Direct Issue Of Full Hong Kong Driving Licence" (PDF). Retrieved 4 February 2012.
Minimum age for holding a driving permit is 18 for private cars, light goods vehicle, motorcycles and motortricycles. For commercial vehicles the age is 21.[28]
In the United Kingdom most drivers are not required to carry their "Driving Licence". A driver may be required by a constable or vehicle examiner to produce this, but may provide it at a specified police station within seven days;[18] the police issue a form for this purpose.[19]
^ "US Drivers License Application". US Immigration Support: Your Guide to US Visas, Green Cards, and Citizenship. Archived from the original on 5 July 2010. Retrieved 1 October 2010.
Russia was one of the first countries to create a driving licence.[citation needed] In 1895, the mayor of Saint Petersburg, Baron von Wahl issued permits to ride “motorised bicycles.” The year following, the Minister of Railways and Communication laid down the first code for cars. Russia's first licences were issued in 1900 by Saint Petersburg authorities,[citation needed] and Russia joined an international convention in 1909.[citation needed] However, due to a relatively small number of cars, the attempts to create a standardized Russian licence were rather sporadic and limited to major urban areas. No comprehensive system of driver licensing was present until 1936, when the Soviet government organized and standardized traffic and driving regulations, with the statewide system regulated by specialized police authorities.
A District of Columbia driver's license may be obtained while maintaining an out-of-country driver's license. D.C. driver's licenses may vary for non-US citizens, depending on visa classification. The written test is required for non-US citizens who possess an out-of-country driver's license.[91]
B1 Public (B1 UMUM) - to drive passenger vehicles and general freight allowed amount of weight over 3,500 kg (7,700 lb)
Contracting parties shall recognize as valid for driving in their territories:
^ "Permis de conduire - Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires étrangères" (in French). Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires étrangères. Retrieved 1 February 2021.
"American Driver's License - Germany - United States Diplomatic Mission". Archived from the original on 13 October 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
"District of Columbia: Department of Motor Vehicles - Services - Drivers' Licenses - Getting Your Learners' Permit". Dmv.dc.gov. Archived from the original on 26 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"Design of UK Driving Licences after 31 January 2020 - a Freedom of Information request to Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency"
A Public (A UMUM) - to drive commercial vehicles and goods carrier to the amount of weight that is allowed does not exceed 3,500 kg (7,700 lb)
The laws relating to the licensing of drivers vary between jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions, a permit is issued after the recipient has passed a driving test, while in others, a person acquires their permit before beginning to drive. Different categories of permit often exist for different types of motor vehicles, particularly large trucks and passenger vehicles. The difficulty of the driving test varies considerably between jurisdictions, as do factors such as age and the required level of competence and practice.
D – to drive private or commercial vehicle between 10 seats and 30 seats. D license is valid for 5 years.
"State of Delaware Division of Motor Vehicles - Driver's License Over 18 FAQ's". Dmv.de.gov. Archived from the original on 24 October 2004. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
3.3European Economic Area																								3.3.1Austria																											3.3.2Belgium																											3.3.3Bulgaria																											3.3.4Croatia																											3.3.5Cyprus																											3.3.6Denmark																											3.3.7Finland																											3.3.8France																											3.3.9Germany																											3.3.10Greece																											3.3.11Iceland																											3.3.12Ireland																											3.3.13Italy																											3.3.14Netherlands																											3.3.15Norway																											3.3.16Poland																											3.3.17Romania																											3.3.18Spain																											3.3.19Sweden
21 years old for issue of Driving License class: B2
Quebec has a reciprocal licence exchange scheme for Canadian provinces and territories, Canadian Forces Europe, American states and other countries.[82]
For motorcycles and heavier vehicles, the regulations are different, and some agrarian vehicles can be driven without a permit. As of 2011, a 45-minute driving lesson costs around SFr 90, while the various fees and theoretical instruction costs associated with getting a car driving licence can amount to up to SFr 600, without counting the costs for the two days of further training.
"Permis de conduire - Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires étrangères"
Its main regulations about drivers permits are in Annex 6 (Domestic Driving Permit) and Annex 7 (International Driving Permit). The currently active version of those is in force in each contracting party no later than "29 March 2011" (Article 43).
"The Motor Car Act, 1903 - The Motor Miscellany". Retrieved 23 May 2017.
^ "About driver licences: New Zealand's driver licensing system". NZ Transport Agency. Retrieved 8 December 2016.
Various state statutes also mandate that a CDL must be held to operate vehicles not covered by federal statutes.
^ "Altes vom Auto: Meldungen aus 125 Jahren:Tops und Flops (a summary of the highlights and lowlights of the first 125 years of motoring history)". Auto Motor u. Sport. 4: 16. 27 January 2011.
^ "Indian government to introduce universal smart card driving license across the country". Cartoq. 29 June 2019. Retrieved 27 January 2021.
Even the so-called "Paper Drivers" who hold licenses but never drive, who technically are without violation or accident, can lose their eligibility to obtain a gold license for several reasons including if their car is used by a drunk driver or to support drunk driving in any way.
Many countries have established a driver's license exchange arrangement after reviews of the foreign jurisdiction's licensing processes. Where standards in the other jurisdiction are comparable in areas such as medical standards, minimum driving age, and knowledge and road testing, an exchange of the foreign jurisdiction's license may occur.[76] This may also be called Driver's License Reciprocity.[77]
The legal driving age within the Russian Federation is 18 years (16 for motorcycles (A1 and M categories only, not A) and 20 for buses)[41] and to obtain a license one must be physically fit to drive (including certificates of mental fitness and no record of substance abuse). One must also pass a test administered at a local traffic police authority and pay a fee. Tests are divided into theory and practice. The theory test is usually a computerized multiple-choice test on various traffic rules. Twenty multiple-choice questions are asked, only two incorrect answers allowed for a passing grade, five additional questions per mistake. A road test is then administered which includes a demonstration of basic driving skills (steering, slope starting for manual transmission vehicles and backing-up), obstacle course as well as a skills examination for road driving. Four minor errors are allowed for the road driving examination—the obstacle course is pass-fail. The number of retries is unlimited.
The British Crown dependencies of Guernsey, Jersey and the Isle of Man,
^ "Driving in Moscow – Russian road rules". We heart Moscow. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
"福岡県警察 渡辺通優良運転者免許更新センター（渡辺通ゴールド免許センター" [Fukuoka Prefectural Police Watanabe Avenue Excellent Driver License Renewal Center (Watanabe Avenue Gold License Center)] (in Japanese). 福岡県警察 (Fukuoka Prefectural Police). Retrieved 8 October 2014.
Licensing departments in many countries add an organ donation option on application forms. Sometimes a small picture of a heart or the term Organ Donor is printed on the driving permit, to indicate the holder's agreement to donate their organs in case of sudden death, such as after a collision.
^ Carlos Josue Quinteros Berrios. "Homologacion Licencia Extranjera" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 8 May 2014. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
^ "Visit Europe from 1 January 2021". GOV.UK. Retrieved 29 December 2020.
^ "How do I get my class 2 truck licence?". 21 August 2017.
"New York's Auto Exports Increase-Big Jump in Cars Shipped Last Year-New Jersey Examines All Drivers" (PDF). The New York Times. 14 July 1913. p. 11. Retrieved 3 June 2009.
This page was last edited on 15 March 2023, at 02:10 (UTC).
^ "Draft: Information Technology — Personal Identification — ISO Compliant Driving Licence — Part 1: Physical Characteristics and Basic Data Set" (PDF). 12 January 2018 – via tttfp.org.
Russia employs a system of driver's licences very similar to the EU standard. Since 2014 there are 14 main categories that require a driving licence: A, A1, B, B1, C, C1, D, D1, BE, CE, C1E, DE, D1E, M[39] and two additional categories: Tm (tram) and Tb (trolleybus).
^ "ГАИ РУ – Информационный портал: автомобильные новости, оплата штрафов ГИБДД – Форум автомобилистов – Справочная информация для автовладельцев" (in Russian). Archived from the original on 10 May 2000. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
at the age of 19 - categories BE, C1E, CE (trucks with trailers, road trains);
Those who hold a gold license have the added benefit of qualifying for the Superior Drivers Course at the time of renewal, a significantly shorter and less-expensive renewal process. In some cases, they can bypass the main license center and have their license renewed at a separate Superior Drivers License Renewal Center.[34]
"New Residents of Québec and Holders of a Driver's Licence Issued Outside Québec"
Liviana—Taxis, Light trucks up to 5 tons, and buses up to 30 passengers.
B1 – to drive private passenger or cargo vehicle with weight allowed exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb)
The Driver & Vehicle Agency (DVA), which licenses drivers in Northern Ireland, exchanges full driving permits issued by:[89]
National classes, not harmonised and only valid within the issuing country:
^ "Driving license:Getting a driving license in Turkey". justlanded.com. Just Landed. Retrieved 4 July 2017.
^ "SOS - CDL Group Designations and Endorsements". www.michigan.gov. Retrieved 1 September 2017.
^ "New York State Commercial Driver's Manual". Retrieved 25 October 2006.
The minimum age for obtaining a driving licence varies between 16 and 21, although there is a concern about teenage driving safety.[35]
^ "Getting Your Driver's Licence". Youth Information Centers. Jamaica: National Centre for Youth Developmen. 2010. Retrieved 11 January 2020.
^ "6 CFR § 37.29 - Prohibition against holding more than one REAL ID card or more than one driver's license". LII / Legal Information Institute. Retrieved 8 August 2020.
the period of validity of an international driving permit shall be either no more than three years after the date of issue or until the date of expiry of the domestic driving permit, whichever is earlier;
Canada (only car and motorcycle licences; by default, Canadian driver's licences will only be exchanged for licences to drive automatic transmission cars, unless documentary evidence is provided that a manual gearbox (shift) test was passed in Canada).
A3 – to drive motorized tricycle, sidecar attached motorcycle and A1 motorcycles. A3 license has no expiry date
^ "Florida officials sign a new agreement wit South Korea" (PDF). www.flhsmv.gov (Press release). 21 October 2011. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 January 2012. Retrieved 20 January 2012.
"lplate - Zimbabwe Provisional Driving Lessons". Zimbabwe. Retrieved 24 March 2019.
^ "Texas Department of Public Safety". xdps.state.tx.us. Retrieved 27 September 2015.[permanent dead link]
^ "Vehicles and Transport System Regulations" (PDF). Department of Transport Management (DoTM) (in Nepali). Government of Nepal. Retrieved 30 January 2022.
"New York State Department of Motor Vehicles - NYS DMV - NYSDMV - Driver - Vehicle". Nydmv.state.ny.us. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
^ "Exchanging your foreign driving licence". nidirect government services. 25 November 2015. Retrieved 21 February 2020.
Every vehicle driver must carry a Licencia de Conducir, which is issued by COSEVI (Consejo de Seguridad Vial) of the ministry of transport and public infrastructure (Ministerio de Obras Públicas y Transporte).
Drivers are legally obliged to carry a valid driving licence whilst driving and this must be produced if required to do so by a police officer.[29]
The Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA), which licenses drivers in Great Britain (England, Scotland and Wales) but not Northern Ireland, exchanges full driving permits issued by:[88]
^ Convention on Road Traffic (PDF). United Nations Conference on Road Traffic. 8 November 1968.
^ "Foreign Driver's Licences" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 August 2010. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"driving permits" can be issued only after passing theoretical and practical exams, which are regulated by each country or jurisdiction;
"Road Users' Code, Chapter 5 For All Drivers". Transport Department, Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Retrieved 8 November 2022.
Issues when moving permanently from one country or one state to another[edit]
"District of Columbia: Department of Motor Vehicles - Services - Drivers' Licenses - Getting Your Learners' Permit"
^ "DriveTest - Exchanging a Reciprocal License". Drivetest.ca. Archived from the original on 30 January 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
Moreover, because such license holders are proven to have been free of accidents and moving violations for at least five years, they are deemed low-risk and qualify for optional car insurance discounts. To qualify, drivers must be accident and violation-free for 5 years and 41 days prior to their birthday on their license's expiration. The period in which the license holder's driving history is reviewed begins on the 40th day prior to their birthday of that year. Should the license holder be deemed to qualify, they will receive a decision in the mail with the word 優良 printed on it.
A driver's license is a legal authorization, or the official document confirming such an authorization, for a specific individual to operate one or more types of motorized vehicles—such as motorcycles, cars, trucks, or buses—on a public road. Such licenses are often plastic and the size of a credit card.
^ "Guía Licencia" (in Spanish). Venezuela: Instituto Nacional de Transporte Terrestre. 2012. Archived from the original on 19 January 2013. Retrieved 15 August 2018.
Administrator. "Clases de Licencia" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
Western Australia and South Australia cards have driver's licence, while cards from New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania, Australian Capital Territory, Northern Territory and New Zealand have driver licence.
Type 1 (1종) – Commercial VehiclesLarge (대형) – A permit which allows one to drive every vehicle except trailers and wreckers. It allows one to drive cargo truck, passenger bus, construction equipment for commercial purposes. Type 1 Large permit holders can apply for a tram driving license.General (보통) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 15 seats, an emergency motor vehicle with less than 12 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 12 tonnes, a construction equipment which weighs less than 3 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers), a special motor vehicle which weighs less than 10 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers).Small (소형) – Allows one to drive a tricycle and a motorcycle. Not issued since 1984.Large Trailer (대형견인차) – Allows one to drive all types of trailer.Small Trailer (소형견인차) – Allows one to drive a trailer under 3 tonnes with powered vehicle under 3.5 tonnes.Wrecker (구난) – Allows one to drive a tow truck.
"Driving in Moscow – Russian road rules". We heart Moscow. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
^ "愛知県警察／運転免許に関すること" [Aichi Prefectural Police/Driver's License Concerns] (in Japanese). 愛知県警察 (Aichi Prefectural Police). Retrieved 9 October 2014.
"New-style driving licences and number plates mark one-year anniversary of Brexit as EU flag is removed". GOV.UK. Retrieved 9 March 2021.
I – Drive a car with a gas pedal located in the left.
3.1Africa																								3.1.1Egypt																											3.1.2Ghana																											3.1.3Kenya																											3.1.4Morocco																											3.1.5Nigeria																											3.1.6South Africa																											3.1.7Tanzania																											3.1.8Zimbabwe
^ Haber, Hürriyet (22 February 2016). "Ehliyet yenileme randevu işlemleri nasıl yapılır?". Gündem (in Turkish). Hürriyet Gazetecilik. Retrieved 4 July 2017.
Pesada—Buses greater than 30 passengers, and trucks greater than 5 tons.
^ "International Driving Permit". Australian Automobile Association. Retrieved 28 April 2019.
"6 CFR § 37.29 - Prohibition against holding more than one REAL ID card or more than one driver's license"
"International Driving permit in UK". The American Journal of International Law. ITCA. 4 (4 Supplement:Official Documents): 316–328. October 1910. JSTOR 2212082.
20 years old for issue of Driving License class: B1
India introduced the driving license chip card in October 2019, and set up a nationwide driving licence database to fight against duplication.[31]
A foreigner 18 years of age or older and holding a Work Pass/Dependent Pass/Student Pass may drive in Singapore with a valid class 3, 3A or 2B foreign permit, for a period of not more than 12 months. A Singaporean driving licence is required after 12 months. Those on short term social visits may drive with their foreign permit for up to 12 months each time they enter into Singapore. For licences not written in the English language, an International Driving Permit or translation is required.
"Ontario plans to eliminate enhanced driver's licences used at border crossings"
The minimum driving age in India is 16 to drive any kind of gearless motorcycle like scooters and mopeds without gear and 18 for cars and motorcycles with gear like bikes , scooters with gear (old type of scooters like bajaj chetak which are not currently available in market) .[30] The Regional Transport Office (RTO/RTA) issue their own driving licences in various states. Drivers are legally obliged to carry a valid driving permit (driving licence) in India while driving, and it must be produced if required to do so by a police officer.
In 1909, the Convention with Respect to the International Circulation of Motor Vehicles[10] recognized the need for qualifications, examination, and authorization for international driving.
"List of contracting party states in the current version of the German International Driving Permit according to the 1926 Convention on Motor Traffic" (PDF) (in German). Bundesministerium der Justiz und für Verbraucherschutz (Federal Ministry for Justice and Consumer protection of the Federal Republic of Germany. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
Zimbabwean drivers licences are issued by the Vehicle Inspection Department (VID) which is an arm of the government under the Ministry of Transport & Infrastructural Development.[25] Drivers can be licensed for class 4 vehicles at the age of sixteen and eighteen for class 2 vehicles. Public transport vehicles are in class 1 and the minimum age is twenty five. A theory based learners licence which has 25 questions is the first step. The questions for this test include diagrams, road rules and road signs and has to be answered in under eight minutes. After passing the test, the candidate gets a provisional learners license which enables the candidate to drive under supervision from a driving instructor or anyone with a full driving licence.
An exception is the EU, where permits do not need to be exchanged since the introduction of the "common EU driving licence scheme".
For South Korean driving licenses, there are classes which permit driving different types of motor vehicle:
In Denmark, Finland, Norway, Spain and Sweden, the driving permit number is listed along with the bearer's national identification number. Banks and public authorities use the same number for customer databases, making the permit fully useful for identification purposes.
A2 – to drive motorcycles with any engine displacement. A2 license has no expiry date
^ "Production of Documents". Sussex Police. Archived from the original on 14 May 2012. Retrieved 27 March 2012.
18 years old for issue of Driving License class: A1, A2, A3, A4, B1, B2
Convention on Road Traffic (PDF). United Nations Conference on Road Traffic. 8 November 1968.
A minimum driving age often exists regardless of possession of a foreign permit; an American cannot drive below the local minimum age in Europe, nor can a 17-year-old Briton drive in mainland Europe where the minimum age is 18.[75]
"Requirements for Obtaining a Driving Licence". Transport Department, Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Retrieved 8 November 2022.
Most American jurisdictions issue a permit with "driver license" printed on it but some use "driver's license", which is conversational American English. Canadian English uses both "driver's licence" as well as "driver licence" (Atlantic Canada). The Australian and New Zealand English equivalent is "driver's licence" or "driver licence" depending on the state or territory of issue.[1] In British English and in many former British colonies it is "driving licence".
"Production of Documents". Sussex Police. Archived from the original on 14 May 2012. Retrieved 27 March 2012.
The minimum age in Iceland for a D1 class licence is 21 years old and D class (and DE class) license is 23 years old, the same rules apply as with a C/CE class license.
"History of Driving and the introduction of the UK driving licence"
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
In the United States, this is governed by the Uniform Anatomical Gift Act. In New Zealand and the Republic of Ireland, willingness to donate organs for transplant is also listed on driving permits. In Australia, the system of notating organ donation requests on permits was replaced in July 2005 with a national registration system and the issue of special cards. In Great Britain (England, Wales and Scotland), code "115" is printed on the reverse of their driving permit to indicate that details are on the National Health Service (NHS) Organ Donor Register.
^ "Driving with an overseas or interstate licence in NSW". NSW Government. 13 August 2021. Retrieved 3 January 2023.
In Trinidad and Tobago, a Learner's Permit can be obtained from age 17. Driver's Permits are issued by the Licensing Authority, which is governed by the Ministry of Works and Transport. In order to legally operate any motor vehicle in Trinidad and Tobago, whether it is on or off public-owned-roads, the operator of the motor vehicle must be in possession of a valid Driver's Permit on their person and is legally endorsed for that class of vehicle. Contravening this provision could warrant a fine of up to TT$1,500 and imprisonment.[citation needed]
^ "New York's Auto Exports Increase-Big Jump in Cars Shipped Last Year-New Jersey Examines All Drivers" (PDF). The New York Times. 14 July 1913. p. 11. Retrieved 3 June 2009.
Thai (5-year extended) licences are valid in the following countries: Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Brunei, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Philippines.
21 years old for issue of Driving License class: C, FB2
The age to obtain a Driver's Licence/permis de conduire in Canada varies by province, as do the necessary procedures. The minimum age for obtaining a permit to drive unaccompanied in most provinces is 16.[citation needed]
Contracting parties may refuse to recognize the validity of driving permits for persons under eighteen or, for categories C, D, CE and DE, under twenty-one;
Particular—License for adults, for cars, vans up to 17 passengers, and pickup trucks.
On 1 January 2016 new Turkish laws concerning driving licences were implemented.[44][45] The changes are intended to bring Turkey more in line with existing EU driving regulations and concern all road users in Turkey. A foreign national can drive in Turkey with an EU licence for 6 months. After 6 months it has to be exchanged for a Turkish licence. Application can be made to any Traffic Registration office but the foreign driving licence will not be returned. Instead they will be sent to the issuing authority of the country of origin i.e. for British nationals, DVLA. The DVLA says that expats can drive in the UK on a Turkish licence for up to 12 months, and if they wish to settle back in the UK, the Turkish licence can be exchanged for a UK license.[44]
Second Degree License (Motorcycles): to 16 years old persons (Type "A", for motorcycles less than 150 cm3 engine capacity) andto 18 years old persons (Type "B", to drive motorcycles of any engine capacity).
5International and interstate considerations											Toggle International and interstate considerations subsection																					5.1Issues when moving permanently from one country or one state to another																								5.1.1Australia																											5.1.2Canada																											5.1.3France																											5.1.4Germany																											5.1.5Hong Kong																											5.1.6Singapore																											5.1.7Sweden																											5.1.8United Kingdom																								5.1.8.1Great Britain																											5.1.8.2Northern Ireland																														5.1.9United States
H Hazardous materials (written test and background check through the Transportation Security Administration)
The minimum age for eligibility for a learner's permit is 18 years. Drivers' information is recorded against the Computerized National ID Card number which is issued at the age of 18. The Licence Issuing Authorities vary in each district and work under the relevant District Police.
^ "Costos de Licencia de Conducir" (in Spanish). Csv.go.cr. Archived from the original on 15 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
A – to drive private passenger or cargo vehicle with weight allowed not exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb)
General (보통) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 15 seats, an emergency motor vehicle with less than 12 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 12 tonnes, a construction equipment which weighs less than 3 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers), a special motor vehicle which weighs less than 10 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers).
There are also different and separate endorsements that can allow full licence holders of different classes to carry passengers for commercial use (e.g. buses, taxis, Uber), drive specialist equipment (e.g. forklifts, excavators), tow vehicles, carry dangerous goods, instruct other drivers or conduct driving tests.[71]
On the federal level, motor vehicles with a curb weight of GCWR of 26,001 lb (11,794 kg) or more, a vehicle designed to transport 16 or more passengers (driver included), or a vehicle transporting hazardous materials can only be driven by an operator carrying a Commercial Driver License (Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986). Upon successful completion of theory and practical testing, endorsements can be applied to a CDL to allow legal transport of specialty types of goods:
The American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators provides a standard for the design of driving permits and identification cards issued by AAMVA member jurisdictions, which include all 50 US states, the District of Columbia, and Canadian territories and provinces. The newest card design standard released is the 2020 AAMVA DL/ID Card Design Standard (CDS).[20][21]
New E-Smart Card driving licences are available in Sri Lanka. These cards are intended for use in the proposed "Point System".
^ Anonymous, "Better Auto Laws Are Now Needed," The New York Times, 1907-08-18, S3.
B11 – to drive private passenger under 9 seats, cargo vehicle or tractor with weight allowed not exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb) with automatic transmission. B11 license is not allowed to practice. B11 license is valid until male reach 60 years old and female reach 55 years old
3.4Rest of Europe																								3.4.1Albania																											3.4.2North Macedonia																											3.4.3Russia																											3.4.4Switzerland																											3.4.5Turkey																											3.4.6Ukraine																											3.4.7United Kingdom
Australia, Barbados, the Faroe Islands, Hong Kong, Japan, Monaco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, South Africa, and Zimbabwe,
Small (소형) – Allows one to drive a tricycle and a motorcycle. Not issued since 1984.
^ Administrator. "Clases de Licencia" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
In 1968, the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, ratified in 1977 and further updated in 2011, further modernised these agreements.[13]
^ "History of Driving and the introduction of the UK driving licence". UK: Antonine Driving School. 2009. Retrieved 11 January 2020.
In 1949, the United Nations hosted the Geneva Convention on Road Traffic that standardised rules on roads, occupants, rules, signs, driver's permits and such. It specified that national "driving permits" should be pink and that an "International Driving Permit" for driving in a number of countries should have grey covers with white pages and that "The entire last page shall be drawn up in French".[12]
Anonymous, "Better Auto Laws Are Now Needed," The New York Times, 1907-08-18, S3.
People older than 70 have to undergo strict medical tests in order to obtain a permit that has limited validity and requires renewal after a certain period.
Since 9 February 2017, the service of obtaining an international driver's license has become available in Ukraine. It is issued without exams on the basis of a national driver's license, valid for 3 years.[47]
Issues when moving permanently from one country or one state to another
The categories have become more complicated with subcategories. The letter E is now always used with another category.
International Driving Permit (5-years validity) can be obtained on the basis of 5-years Thai licence.
The International Driving Permit (IDP) (sometimes erroneously called the International Driver's License) is a booklet which is an authorized translation of a driver's home permit into up to ten languages (including languages with non-Latin scripts such as Arabic, Chinese, Greek, Japanese and Russian).[74] In many cases, it is obtained from a motoring organization such as the Automobile Association or the equivalent in the driver's home country. In other cases, it is delivered by the same government services that deliver ordinary permits. The IDP has no validity except when used in conjunction with the driver's own domestic permit. The existence of the IDP is necessitated by many countries refusing to recognize driving permits written in foreign languages without accompanying certified translations.
Great Britain (England, Scotland and Wales). Although part of the UK, driving licences are issued by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) in these 3 constituent countries,
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Lutteroth, Johanna. "Der Lappen, der die Welt bedeutet". einestages (in German). Spiegel Online. Archived from the original on 1 August 2008. Retrieved 2 August 2008.
^ "กรมการขนส่งทางบก" [Department of Land Transport] (in Thai). Thailand: กรมการขนส่งทางบก [Department of Land Transport]. Retrieved 21 September 2018.
"В Украине с 29 декабря появятся новые отметки в водительских удостоверениях". gordonua.com (in Russian). Retrieved 28 December 2021.
In the Dominican Republic, the driving permit number is the same as the citizen's ID number.
Besides the type of the license, the license may have a special condition. Depending on the special condition given, the driver must satisfy the condition below to be able to drive. Driving a vehicle without satisfying the given condition is considered as unlicensed driving.
Japanese driver's licenses bear one of the following 3 colors on the expiration date.
Type 2 (2종) – Non-Commercial VehiclesGeneral (보통) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 10 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 4 tonnes, a special motor vehicle which weighs less than 3.5 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers).Small (소형) – Allows one to drive all types of motorcycle.Motorized Bicycle (원동기장치자전거) – Allows one to drive a motorcycle under 125cc.
Besides this document the driver must carry the national identity card (Cédula de Identidad), however both documents use the same identification number, the national identity card being the basis of the driver's license number.
The minimum age for a driving license is 18 years old. It is obtained via a test in a car, a computer and the applicant must present a vision test which says they are permitted to drive
^ "Department of Motor Vehicles Virginia" (PDF). dmv.virginia.gov. Retrieved 27 September 2015.
From 29 December 2021, a mark on passing a practical exam on cars with an automatic transmission in the form of a code "78" will appear in Ukrainian driver's licenses.[48]
17 years old for issue of Driving License class: A, C, and D
C – to drive private or commercial vehicle under 9 seats, cargo vehicle or tractor with weight allowed exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb). C license is valid for 5 years.
Most government issuers of driving permits also provide a government-issued identification card with similar attributes to those residents within their jurisdictions who do not have or maintain a valid driving permit, making it easier for them to do things such as open a bank account and perform any other activities that require official identification. Identification cards serve as government-issued photo ID but do not enable a person to operate a motor vehicle, a fact typically noted on the ID via the phrase 'Not a driver's licence' or similar wording. This type of photo ID is referred to as a Photo Card in some jurisdictions (for example, the Ontario Photo Card).
"Driving with an overseas or interstate licence in NSW". NSW Government. 13 August 2021. Retrieved 3 January 2023.
^ "Agreement Promotes Safety And Convenience For New Residents". Archived from the original on 22 August 2010. Retrieved 4 February 2016.
Chauffeur, a person who drives an automobile as a job
Database driver, application programming interface software used to interact with databases in accordance with Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) standard
Driver circuit, in electronics, a circuit or component used to control another circuit or component
Driver (series), series of video gamesDriver (video game), the first game in the seriesDriver 2, the second game in the seriesDriver 3, the third game in the seriesDriver: Parallel Lines, the fourth game in the seriesDriver 76, a 2007 PSP gameDriver: Vegas, a 2005 mobile gameDriver: L.A. Undercover, a 2007 mobile gameDriver: San Francisco, the fifth game in the seriesDriver: Renegade, a 2011 3DS game
Driver (software), a general term for a programming interface to control and manage lower level interface(s)
This page was last edited on 1 November 2022, at 17:19 (UTC).
In 3D computer animation, a driver of a property animates its value over time based some other property
A person whose occupation is drivingChauffeur, a person who drives an automobile as a jobMotorman (locomotive), an electric vehicle driverBus driverTruck driver
^ "MF DOOM - Gazillion Ear Lyrics". Retrieved August 9, 2019.
In Sweden, alternate-side parking (datumparkering) is applied in zones covering an entire city, with signs indicating this at the city perimeter. Inside such date zones (datumzon), parking is prohibited on the morning of odd dates on the side of the street where houses have odd numbers. The drivers must think of what date it is the next morning if they leave the car in the evening. Inspired by Stockholm, more and more Swedish cities are abandoning such confusing zones and instead provide permanent parking on one or both sides of the street, with the exception for one day per week from December to May, when snow ploughing and sweeping of sand can be required. The day when parking is prohibited is posted on a sign for each street.
Belgium allows a half-monthly parking rule (Dutch: Halfmaandelijks beurtelings parkeren, French: Stationnement alterné semi-mensuel). When the entrance of the town is marked by road sign E11, alternate-side parking applies to the whole town agglomeration. Parking on the road from the 1st till the 15th of each month is only allowed on the side of the road with odd house numbers; from the 16th till the end of the month, parking on the road is only allowed on the side of the road with even house numbers. At the end of each period, cars should change sides between 19.30 and 20.00. The rule doesn't apply on parking spots outside the roadway or on dedicated spots marked by other parking rules.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Gail Robinson. "Parking". Gotham Gazette. Retrieved October 16, 2006.
New York City Department of Transportation. "Alternate Side Parking Regulations Suspension Calendar". Archived from the original on 28 September 2006. Retrieved October 16, 2006.
1Around the world											Toggle Around the world subsection																					1.1New York City																								1.1.1Example																														1.2Sweden																											1.3Denmark																											1.4Belgium																											1.5France																											1.6Spain																											1.7Other countries
"Paul R. Screvane Dies at 87; Held Many Political Offices"
In many towns and cities, alternate-side parking is reserved for certain times of year,[2][3] or only used during a snow emergency.
In most other countries, like in the Netherlands, the street sweep vehicle is usually accompanied by a few street sweeping persons, who go around the parked cars with brooms. They bring the garbage from around the parked cars to the road, from where the sweep vehicle takes it over. This way, citizens do not have to move their parked cars. [10]
Alternate-side parking is a traffic law that dictates on which side of a street cars can be parked on a given day. The law is intended to promote efficient flow of traffic, as well as to allow street sweepers and snowplows to reach the curb without parked cars impeding their progress. Some proponents also regard the law, which can be quite inconvenient for drivers, as a way to encourage the use of public transportation.[1]
^ David Wallis. "The Zen of Alternate-Side Parking". Retrieved October 16, 2006.
^ The New York Times (November 9, 1953). "AUTO CLUB ASSAILS CITY PARKING PLAN; Alternate-Side-of-Street Bans Called Inconsistent Burdens to Motorists -- Revisions Urged", November 9, 1953" (PDF).
^ New York City Department of Transportation. "Alternate Side Parking Regulations Suspension Calendar". Archived from the original on 28 September 2006. Retrieved October 16, 2006.
From the beginning, the New York City alternate-side parking law was "assailed" by opponents as actually impeding the efficient flow of traffic.[4] The system was created by either Paul Rogers Screvane, while a sanitation commissioner in Queens, New York,[5] or Isidore Cohen,[6] a Sanitation Department employee who later rose to Manhattan borough superintendent.
This page was last edited on 29 August 2022, at 04:32 (UTC).
On a street running east to west, cars must be moved from the south side of the street for a few hours a day every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. On Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday they must be moved from the north side. On Sunday and certain holidays, they can be left where they are. The specific times will vary from street to street. The days on which the rules are suspended may also vary from city to city and even from neighbourhood to neighbourhood. Apps and services like SpotAngels offer crowdsourced maps of NYC alternate side parking rules.[9]
In Spain some cities have similar parking regulations. In Barcelona, for example, the parking side in small streets changes every three months. In these streets, every street side has a sign showing the regular parking conditions, an additional sign below shows the dates when parking on this side of the street is allowed and prohibited.
"Paul R. Screvane Dies at 87; Held Many Political Offices". The New York Times. November 7, 2001.
^ Frank Pomeroy. "Community Connection Alternate-Side Parking". Archived from the original on September 1, 2006. Retrieved October 16, 2006.
In The Order of the Stick, goblins allegedly invented alternate-side parking, in addition to the oboe and guacamole, thus securing their place among the damned.
In The West Wing episode "Transition", CJ Cregg jokes about moving the furniture around the Chief of Staff office on a daily basis, "like alternate side of the street parking."
In the MF Doom song Gazillion Ear, the New York City rapper mentions that he is "In effect like alternate side of the street parking rules."[12]
^ "Obituaries: Isidore Cohen". New York Daily News. May 6, 1987.
"SpotAngels: Free Parking, Garage Deals & Street Parking Rules". www.spotangels.com. Retrieved 2020-06-16.
"AUTO CLUB ASSAILS CITY PARKING PLAN; Alternate-Side-of-Street Bans Called Inconsistent Burdens to Motorists -- Revisions Urged", November 9, 1953"
The New York Times (November 9, 1953). "AUTO CLUB ASSAILS CITY PARKING PLAN; Alternate-Side-of-Street Bans Called Inconsistent Burdens to Motorists -- Revisions Urged", November 9, 1953" (PDF).
"Obituaries: Isidore Cohen". New York Daily News. May 6, 1987.
^ "Parking". Madison Wisconsin Isthmus. Archived from the original on 2011-05-22. Retrieved October 16, 2006.
^ Calvin Trillin (2003). Tepper Isn't Going Out. Random House. ISBN 0-375-75851-8.
Frank Pomeroy. "Community Connection Alternate-Side Parking". Archived from the original on September 1, 2006. Retrieved October 16, 2006.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Gail Robinson. "Parking". Gotham Gazette. Retrieved October 16, 2006.
David Wallis. "The Zen of Alternate-Side Parking". Retrieved October 16, 2006.
^ "Paul R. Screvane Dies at 87; Held Many Political Offices". The New York Times. November 7, 2001.
Calvin Trillin (2003). Tepper Isn't Going Out. Random House. ISBN 0-375-75851-8.
^ "SpotAngels: Free Parking, Garage Deals & Street Parking Rules". www.spotangels.com. Retrieved 2020-06-16.
The novel Tepper Isn't Going Out is based on the quest for parking in New York City.[11]
"MF DOOM - Gazillion Ear Lyrics". Retrieved August 9, 2019.
The law is a year-round rule, suspended only for holidays and certain events.[7] Signs are posted with the scheduled street sweeping times, and drivers must make sure their vehicles are on the correct side of the street or risk being ticketed or towed. The law can be confusing to visitors, who often choose to park in high-priced parking garages or use valet parking rather than risking fines. Even for locals, parking tickets are common; working late or oversleeping may cause a car to be left for too long on the wrong side of the street. Avoiding a ticket can consume a great deal of time, as drivers must search for other available spaces or sit double parked until the designated time, regardless of when street sweepers actually pass.[8]
"Parking". Madison Wisconsin Isthmus. Archived from the original on 2011-05-22. Retrieved October 16, 2006.
In the Seinfeld episode "The Alternate Side," George Costanza gets a job moving cars from one side of the street to the other.
Under Taiwanese law, household registration guarantees an individual the right of abode in Taiwan, and the ability to fully exercise their civil and political rights, such as the right to vote. Thus, the term national with household registration is sometimes used to refer to a citizen in official documents.[1]
Traditional Chinese script: 戶籍謄本Mandarin Pinyin: Hùjí TéngběnHokkien: Hō͘-che̍k Thêng-púnSixian Hakka: Fu-sit Thèn-pún
Traditional Chinese script: 戶籍法Mandarin Pinyin: Hùjí FǎHokkien: Hō͘-che̍k HoatSixian Hakka: Fu-sit Fap
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Presidential and Vice Presidential Election and Recall Act - Article Content - Laws & Regulations Database of The Republic of China". law.moj.gov.tw.
The household registration record is administered by the Department of Household Registration (戶政司), Ministry of the Interior in the central government. In every Taiwanese townships, county-administered cities and districts, there is at least one field Household Registration Office (戶政事務所) which accepts applications and registrations from the public.
This page was last edited on 16 February 2023, at 21:09 (UTC).
Early forms of household registration was first established in Dutch Formosa in 1647 by the Dutch East India Company. Later regimes including Kingdom of Tungning and the Qing Taiwan administration maintain similar registers on local family profiles of the Taiwanese people. In these eras, registers on families were also used to organize Taiwanese people to conduct civil defense, known as the Hoko system. The system existed until the era ofJapanese rule.[2]
Household certificate:[III] The identity document issued to every household. The certificate is usually used to verify the identity of children under 14, or as proof of relationship or domicile address in some applications.
"Dept. of Household Registration, Ministry of the Interior. Republic of China(Taiwan)"
"Household Registration Act - Article Content - Laws & Regulations Database of The Republic of China"
^ "Household Registration Act - Article Content - Laws & Regulations Database of The Republic of China". law.moj.gov.tw.
Dept. of Household Registration, Ministry of the Interior Republic of China(Taiwan) (May 1, 2018). "Dept. of Household Registration, Ministry of the Interior. Republic of China(Taiwan)". Dept. of Household Registration, Ministry of the Interior. Republic of China(Taiwan).
Traditional Chinese script: 國民身份證Mandarin Pinyin: Guómín ShēnfènzhèngHokkien: Kok-bîn Sin-hun-chèngSixian Hakka: Koet-mìn Sṳ̂n-fun-chṳn
Registration records were digitized in the early 1990s. The nationwide online Household and Conscription Information System (戶役政資訊系統) was completed in September 1997.[5] The system is maintained by both the Department of Household Registration and National Conscription Agency to serve both the civil registration and conscription in Taiwan.
"Presidential and Vice Presidential Election and Recall Act - Article Content - Laws & Regulations Database of The Republic of China"
Shelley Rigger, "Nationalism versus Citizenship on Taiwan," in Changing Meanings of Citizenship in Modern China, Merle Goldman, Elizabeth Jean Perry ed. (Harvard University Press, 2002), 360-61.
2Current implementation											Toggle Current implementation subsection																					2.1Administration																											2.2Registration																											2.3Derived documents
^ Traditional Chinese script: 戶口名簿Mandarin Pinyin: Hùkǒu MíngbùHokkien: Hō͘-kháu Miâ-phō͘Sixian Hakka: Fu-khiéu Miàng-phû
Household registration transcript:[IV] The official copy of household registration records. It has the same format as the Household Certificate. Usually served as the one-time proof of relationship or domicile address in some applications.
Personal status of domicile change: (1) Moving-out, (2) Moving-in, (3) Address Alteration
^ Traditional Chinese script: 國民身份證Mandarin Pinyin: Guómín ShēnfènzhèngHokkien: Kok-bîn Sin-hun-chèngSixian Hakka: Koet-mìn Sṳ̂n-fun-chṳn
After the World War II, the competent authority household registration moved to civil administration. However, with the large number of refugees from the Chinese Civil War fleeing to Taiwan, the National Identification Card was issued first time in Taiwan in 1949 to enhance social control.[4] Later, with the tension of the Second Taiwan Strait Crisis, the competent authority of the household registration was transferred to the National Police Agency in 1969.[citation needed]
^ Traditional Chinese script: 戶籍謄本Mandarin Pinyin: Hùjí TéngběnHokkien: Hō͘-che̍k Thêng-púnSixian Hakka: Fu-sit Thèn-pún
The household registration authorities also in charge of issuing identity documents for persons and households, important documents includes:
^ Dept. of Household Registration, Ministry of the Interior Republic of China(Taiwan) (May 1, 2018). "Dept. of Household Registration, Ministry of the Interior. Republic of China(Taiwan)". Dept. of Household Registration, Ministry of the Interior. Republic of China(Taiwan).
"Household Registration Act - Article Content - Laws & Regulations Database of The Republic of China". law.moj.gov.tw.
The current Household Registration Act requires reporting of the following status changes:[6]
National identification card:[II] The identity document card issues to every person who with household registration in Taiwan when the person turns 14. The ID card is often used as proof of citizenship in circumstances like voting in national and local elections, and an ID number is needed for tax reporting or open bank accounts. The ID card also have limited ability to verify the person's close relatives, including parents, spouse, and siblings.
^ Shelley Rigger, "Nationalism versus Citizenship on Taiwan," in Changing Meanings of Citizenship in Modern China, Merle Goldman, Elizabeth Jean Perry ed. (Harvard University Press, 2002), 360-61.
The democratization process in Taiwan started in the early 1990s. Household registration was made independent of the police in July 1992.[citation needed] The nationwide computer system on managing household registration was established in October 1997.[citation needed]
In the early 20th century during Japanese rule, the Government-General of Taiwan started to build very thorough household registration records for both families and persons, like the Koseki system implemented in Mainland Japan. The census in Taiwan was conducted in 1905, with the complete household registration records compiled in the next year according to the new law. The records established in 1906 forms the basis of modern household registration after the World War II until today.[3] In the Japanese era, the household registration was maintained by the Japanese police, applications for registration can also be filed through Hoko offices.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Presidential and Vice Presidential Election and Recall Act - Article Content - Laws & Regulations Database of The Republic of China". law.moj.gov.tw.
Note that under the current Taiwanese nationality law, a person with Taiwanese nationality does not necessarily have household registration. Although a national without household registration is eligible to apply for a Taiwan passport, these passports differ from those issued to Taiwanese citizens with the former having far more restrictions than the latter.[7]
Other official copy of specific household registration records, including marriage certificate, divorce certificate, records of marriage, records of address changes, records of name changes are also available to apply in a Household Registration Office.
Household registration (Chinese: 戶籍; pinyin: hùjí; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: hō͘-che̍k) is a Taiwanese civil and family registration system. The modern household registration system was started in early 20th century when Taiwan was under Japanese rule. Currently the system is administered by the Ministry of the Interior. Under Taiwanese law, household registration guarantees an individual the right of abode in Taiwan, and the ability to fully exercise their civil and political rights, such as the right to vote. Thus, the term national with household registration is sometimes used to refer to a citizen in official documents.[1]
Personal status change: (1) Birth, (2) Parentage, (3) Adoption and Adoption Termination, (4) Marriage and Divorce, (5) Legal Guardianship, (6) Assistance, (7) Exercising responsibility of the rights and obligations for minor children, (8) Death and Presumption of Death, (9) Indigenous status and tribe group, and Birth Place Registration
^ Traditional Chinese script: 戶籍法Mandarin Pinyin: Hùjí FǎHokkien: Hō͘-che̍k HoatSixian Hakka: Fu-sit Fap
Traditional Chinese script: 戶口名簿Mandarin Pinyin: Hùkǒu MíngbùHokkien: Hō͘-kháu Miâ-phō͘Sixian Hakka: Fu-khiéu Miàng-phû
8. Failure to provide a specimen of breath or blood – 14 demerit points
"Forskrift om Prikkbelastning" (in Norwegian). regjeringen.no (Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications). 2003-09-18. Retrieved 2009-09-09.
The Federal Motor Transport Authority (Kraftfahrt-Bundesamt) located in Flensburg, operates an 8-point system for committed traffic offences. This system was introduced in May 2014, replacing the previous 18-points system that dates back to 1974. Colloquially, these points are usually referred as "Punkte in Flensburg" (Points in Flensburg). They expire after 2.5 to 10 years, depending on the type and severity of each offence. Under certain circumstances, points can be reduced by attending formal training events. Obtaining 8 or more points will result in a revocation of the driving licence; once revoked, the licences will only be reinstated after a Medical-psychological assessment following the ban.[12]
^ "About the NYS Driver Point System". New York State Department of Motor Vehicles. 2013-10-25.
The insurance point system assigns points differently, assigning points to incidences[spelling?] of at-fault accidents and moving violations. Rather than using the points for a license suspension, the points lead to insurance surcharges of approximately 25-35% per point assessed. Notably, points are assessed for insurance purposes even if the license is suspended. Only points within the three years preceding the policy purchase date are considered, and a single PJC per household within the three-year period does not result in points assigned.
Many countries have adopted a penalty point or demerit point system under which a person’s driving license is cancelled or suspended based on the number of points accumulated by them over a period of time because of the traffic offenses or infringements committed by them in that period. The demerit points schemes of each jurisdiction varies. These demeritschemes are usually in addition to fines or other penalties which may be imposed for a particular offence or infringement, or after a prescribed number of points have been accumulated.
Drivers holding a permit for over a year may have their driving license suspended if they receive more than 10 points within a three-year period.
12 points earned within 12 months results in a 30-day suspension.
Under these schemes, a driver licensing authority, police force, or other organization keeps a record of the demerit points accumulated by drivers. When the prescribed point threshold is reached, the person’s licence would usually be automatically cancelled or suspended. Points may either be added or subtracted, depending on the rules of each scheme. A major offence may lead to more than the maximum allowed points being issued. Points are typically applied after a driving offence has been committed, and the licence cancelled a defined time, or after other conditions are met. If the total exceeds the threshold, the offender may be disqualified from driving for a time, or the driving licence may be revoked. After the licence suspension period has expired, the previous demerit points are cancelled.
The Motor Vehicle Commission of New Jersey has a point system.[28] If the motorist receives 6 points or more within a period 3 years or more, they will be forced to pay a surcharge annually for three years, which does include court fees and other penalties. If 12 points or more are accumulated on the motorist's license, then their license will be suspended. Other offenses that lead to automatic suspension of the motorist's license are the following:
Learner and provisional drivers are subject to suspension for accumulating 5 points or more over a 12-month period. The 3-year limit of 12 points still applies.
"Motor Vehicle Registry Information Bulletin - L30 - Northern Territory Demerit Points Scheme" (PDF). Northern Territory Government. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2008-08-08. Retrieved 2008-05-10.
The number of surcharge points assigned to each surchargeable incident is determined by the incident classification defined in the Safe Driver Insurance Plan:
Under the New York points system, a driving license is suspended after 11 points or 3 speeding tickets are accumulated in 18 months. Points are counted from the date of the incident (usually the date of the ticket) rather than the date of conviction.[29] After a driver accrues 6 or more points in an 18-month period they will be fined a "NY driver responsibility assessment fee" of $100 per year for 3 years, plus an additional $25 per year for each additional point received. This means 1 extra point costs $75 (since the assessment lasts for 3 years).[30]
This page was last edited on 16 February 2023, at 08:22 (UTC).
Ommundsen, Mads (15 July 2011). "Nå ryker førerkortet fortere enn du tror" (in Norwegian). Bergens Tidende. Archived from the original on 18 July 2011. Retrieved 16 July 2011.
In Victoria, drunk-driving offences only result in immediate licence cancellation for unrestricted drivers with a blood alcohol concentration of 0.05 or higher. Readings lower than this have the option of a 10-point penalty being imposed or being taken immediately to court; this option still results in a 4-month suspension for novice drivers. Automatic suspensions apply for higher level charges, and re-licensing may require an order to install an interlocking device onto the vehicle. Automatic suspension periods of at least 3 months also apply for speeding by greater than 25 km/h over the speed limit, or any speed greater than 130 km/h.[2] Penalty points are no longer accrued for excessive speeding offences as of 1 November 2018.[3]
Demerit points are incurred whether the offence is committed in South Australia or interstate.[4]
In England and Wales, penalty points are given by courts for some of the traffic offences listed in Schedule 2 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988. Where points are given, the minimum is 3 points for some lesser offences and the maximum 11 points for the most serious offences; some incidents can result in points being given for multiple offences or for multiple occurrences of the same offence (typically for having more than one defective tyre); the majority of applicable offences attract 3 or more penalty points. The giving of points is obligatory for most applicable offences, but the number of points, and the giving of points for some of several offences, can be discretionary.
- Drivers who receive over 20 points (over three years) can be disqualified from holding or obtaining a driving permit for up to two years.
Since 11 October 2004, there has been mutual recognition of driver disqualification arising from the penalty points given in England and Wales (and/or Scotland) with Northern Ireland; before that date, disqualification in England and Wales would only have extended to Scotland by virtue of the driver registration system covering only Great Britain.[clarification needed]
3. Offences of driving instructor carries a fine of $2000 and nine demerit points
^ "Pay driver responsibility assessment". Department of Motor Vehicles. New York State. 2013-10-25. Retrieved 17 June 2019.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Speed limit". 19 April 2021.
Fatemeh Baratian-Ghorghi; Huaguo Zhou; Wesley Zech (2016). "Red-light running traffic violations: A novel time-based method for determining a fine structure". Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice. 93: 55–65. doi:10.1016/j.tra.2016.08.015.
This article discusses point systems in the abstract and treats points as demerits; in some jurisdictions, points may instead be measures of merit which are subtracted when a traffic offense is committed.
In Brazil, all traffic violations incur a certain number of demerit points, depending on their severity, according to the 1997 Brazilian Traffic Code. If a driver accumulates more than 20 points (5 points for provisional drivers), the driving license is suspended and the driver has to take a traffic education course in order to regain the right (privilege) to drive. However, some infractions incur in immediate license suspension regardless of current point tally, such as drunk driving, engaging in street racing and others. It is also notable that many offenses that only apply to pedestrians also incur in demerit points.
In Queensland, provisional or learner drivers may accumulate up to 4 demerit points in a one-year period, and open licence holders 12 demerit points in a three-year period, before receiving a sanction. A driver who exceeds their point threshold may choose between a license suspension for a period of 3 months, or to enter into a 12-month good driving behaviour bond.If a driver incurs more than one point while subject to a good driving behaviour bond, their license is suspended for a period of 6 months.[6]
Most states also provide for immediate suspension of a licence, instead of or in addition to demerit points, in certain extreme circumstances. These generally include offences for driving under the influence (DUI) of alcohol or other drugs, or for greatly excessive speed.
4. Exceeding the specified speed limit by 31 km or more per hour carries a fixed penalty fine of $3000 and six demerit points
Speeding which results in a crash = 6 points (enacted to curtail street drag racing)
Points issued against a driver's license in Florida remain on the license for at least 10 years.
Since March 30, 2002, The Netherlands has a point system for starting drivers (5 years starting from the moment you first passed a driving test, or 7 years if you passed before reaching the age of 18). A driver reaching 2 points in 5 years will lose the driving licence and has to pass a driving test again in order to be regain the licence. On October 1, 2014, this limit was lowered from 3 to 2 points. Drivers can get a point for:
^ "What is a Point". Calif DMV. Retrieved 26 Nov 2016.
Road traffic laws are mostly shared with, or similar to those of, England and Wales, although Scotland is a separate jurisdiction. The driver registration system currently covers all of Great Britain, and the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 currently governs the penalty points system in Scotland. The main differences in the penalty points provisions of the 1988 Act are the theft and homicide offences attracting penalty points indicated in Schedule 2 Part II ("Other Offences"), which are not common between Scots Law and English Law.
Any driver under the age of 18 who accumulates six or more points within a 12-month period is automatically restricted for one year to driving for business purposes only. If additional points are accumulated the restriction is extended for 90 days for every additional point received.
^ Fatemeh Baratian-Ghorghi; Huaguo Zhou; Wesley Zech (2016). "Red-light running traffic violations: A novel time-based method for determining a fine structure". Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice. 93: 55–65. doi:10.1016/j.tra.2016.08.015.
Any person who collects a certain number of points within a given time frame will have their license automatically revoked by the state for the length of time listed.
Leaving the scene of a crash resulting in property damage of more than US$50 = 6 points
The point system is applied in different ways, or not at all, in different states. If a red light running traffic violation is captured by a red light camera, no points are assessed.[22] Aspects of a motorist's driving record (including points) may be reported to insurance companies, who may use them in determining what rate to charge the motorist, and whether to renew or cancel an insurance policy.
After July 1, 2011, the normal penalty for most traffic violations, such as failing to yield or failing to stop at red lights, is three points in addition to the fine. Speeding violations of between 10 and 15 km/h (where the speed limit is 60 km/h or less), or between 15 and 20 km/h (where the speed limit is 70 km/h or more) result in two points, for speeding violations below this no points are assessed. Young drivers between 18 and 20 are penalized with twice the number of points.[16]
You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate.
^ "Colorado Division of Motor Vehicles Point Schedule" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2007-03-03. Retrieved 2008-04-29.
Assaulting a driver, passenger, bicyclist, or pedestrian when the offense occurs on a highway (road rage).
In jurisdictions which use a point system, the police or licensing authorities maintain a record of the demerit points accumulated by each driver. Traffic offenses, such as speeding or disobeying traffic signals, are each assigned a certain number of points, and when a driver is determined to be guilty of a particular offence, the corresponding number of points are added to the driver's total.When the driver's total exceeds the prescribed threshold, the driver may face additional penalties, be required to attend safety classes or driver training, be subject to re-examination, or lose his/her driving privileges.
The state of Florida issues its citizens points against their driver's license for infractions occurring anywhere in the United States.
The points range from 2 to 8 points, depending on the severity of the offense. Red light camera violations are not worth any points. The motorists can deduct points from their driving records. 3 points may be deducted one year after either the motorist's last moving violation and no violations for at least one year before. The motorist must also complete an approved driver improvement program. 2 points may be deducted if the motorist completes a defensive driving course. However, the motorist may receive point reductions every five years for every course they take.
Running a stop sign or traffic signal or failing to yield, accident causing death: 6 points
The incident count is the number of surchargeable incidents. However, if more than one surcharge comes from one incident, it only counts as one surchargeable incident.
Any violation of the law which resulted in injury or damage
The Driver Responsibility Program point system in Texas, enacted in 2003, was repealed in 2019.[32][33]
^ "Motor Vehicle Registry Information Bulletin - L30 - Northern Territory Demerit Points Scheme" (PDF). Northern Territory Government. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2008-08-08. Retrieved 2008-05-10.
18 points earned within 18 months results in a 3-month suspension.
"Danish and English dictionaries". Small labs. Retrieved 11 July 2012.
2.1Australia																								2.1.1New South Wales																											2.1.2Victoria																											2.1.3South Australia																											2.1.4Northern Territory																											2.1.5Queensland
In South Carolina, if a motorist has six or more points on his/her driving record, a warning letter will be sent to the motorist's home address. If the motorist accumulates 12 or more points, then the license will be suspended. Motorists may reduce their points by taking a Defensive Driving Course. This course cannot be taken online and it must be taken in the state of South Carolina. In addition, the course must be taken after the motorist has been assessed points on his/her license. However, point reductions may be made within a three-year period. If by any chance the motorist's license is in danger of being suspended, the course must be taken prior to the suspension start time. The points range from 2 to 6 points, depending on the severity of the offense. If a motorist receives a ticket for a DUI, then the license is automatically suspended.
Speeding Fines are doubled when the infraction occurs within an active school zone or a construction zone.
^ "Demerit point offences & your licence". 30 June 2021.
^ NSW woman racks up 34 demerit points in Blue Mountains traffic stop
^ "Country Driving Guides" (PDF). TISPOL. Retrieved 26 May 2016.
Negligent drivers can be put on probation for one year (including a six-month suspension) or lose their privilege to drive. At the end of the suspension or revocation period, drivers need to re-apply for a license to drive.
11. Failure to produce a vehicle for inspection/Driving a vehicle without a valid inspection sticker and certificate - $1000 fine – six demerit points
"Colorado Division of Motor Vehicles Point Schedule" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2007-03-03. Retrieved 2008-04-29.
20 points or more, a driver loses their permission to drive for 5 months.
The primary purpose of such point systems is to identify, deter, and penalize repeat traffic offenders, while streamlining the legal process.
Since the introduction of the Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act 1995, if a person, in the 2 years after passing their first practical test, accumulates 6 points, their licence is revoked by the DVLA, and the driver has to reapply and pay for the provisional licence, drive as a learner, and pay for and take the theory and practical tests before receiving a full licence again. In the case of egregious offences, the court may order the driver to pass an extended driving test before the licence is returned, even beyond the 2-year probation period.[11]
^ "About the NYS Driver Point System". Department of Motor Vehicles. New York State. 2013-10-25. Retrieved 17 June 2019.
^ "MOTOR VEHICLES AND ROAD TRAFFIC ACT CHAPTER 48:50" (PDF).
2. Driving while disqualified from holding or obtaining a driving permit will see the award of 14 demerit points
Drivers who accumulate tickets for moving violations may be considered negligent operators and can lose their driving privilege. Major offenses, such as hit and run, reckless driving, and driving under the influence, earn 2 points and remain on record for 13 years.Less serious offenses earn 1 point which remain for 39 months (3 years, 3 months).[24]
16 to 20 points, a driver loses their permission to drive for 4 months.
^ "Demerit Point System for Fully Licenced Drivers". Government of Alberta. 3 October 2007.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
The driver registration system is separate from that of Great Britain with different laws covering penalty points and the offences to which they apply. In other respects, the application of the system is similar to that in England and Wales. Offences to which points apply are indicated in Schedule 1 of the Road Traffic Offenders (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.
"New Brunswick Driver's Handbook". Government of New Brunswick. 11 September 2021.
Felony or misdemeanor offense of recklessly fleeing a law enforcement officer.
^ "New Brunswick Driver's Handbook". Government of New Brunswick. 11 September 2021.
^ "Understanding Demerit Points". Government of Ontario. 5 June 2013.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
When a driver is cited for a traffic violation, the judge may offer the driver the opportunity to attend a Traffic Violator School, this would include any online traffic school if the court allows. Drivers may participate once in any 18-month period to have a citation dismissed from their driving record this way.Upon dismissal of the citation, all record of the citation is removed and no points are accumulated.
Ontario drivers guilty of driving offences in other Canadian provinces, as well as the States of New York and Michigan, will see demerit points added to their driving record just as if the offence happened in Ontario.[20]
Colorado uses an accumulating point system according to the Colorado Division of Motor Vehicles Point Schedule.[25]Suspension of driving privileges can result from as few as 6 points in 12 months by a driver under 18 years old.Points remain on the driver's motor vehicle record for 7 years.Some motor vehicle offenses carry 12 points per incident, which could result in immediate suspension of the drivers license.Multiple traffic violation convictions can also result in a suspension of the drivers license if a sufficient number of points are accumulated during a 12- or 24-month period.[26]
If a driver license was suspended in the state of Florida for points or as a habitual (but not DUI) traffic offender, or by court order, the holder must complete an advanced driver improvement course before driving privileges are reinstated.
Violations range from 2 to 5 points (possibly with a mandatory departmental hearing), depending on the severity of the offense. PennDOT has the right to immediately suspend a motorist's license if any one of the following occurs:
In South Australia, if a traffic offence is committed against the Road Traffic Act 1961 or the Australian Road Rules 1999, points may be incurred against a driver’s licence. The number of points incurred depends on the offence and how likely it is to cause a crash. If 12 or more points are accumulated in any 3-year period, a driver will be disqualified from holding or obtaining a driver’s licence or permit. Each 3-year period is calculated based on the dates that offences were committed.
Regardless of the number of points accumulated, many serious offenses involving a vehicle are punishable by heavy fines or imprisonment.
^ "State.co.us". Archived from the original on 2008-04-24. Retrieved 2019-04-17.
12 to 15 points, a driver loses their permission to drive for 3 months.
^ "Understanding demerit points". Government of Ontario. 5 June 2013. Retrieved 18 April 2017.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Failure to stop as required at a railway grade crossing.
"Driving-offence points system". Transport Departmant, The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Retrieved 2015-06-22.
"Understanding demerit points". Government of Ontario. 5 June 2013. Retrieved 18 April 2017.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Demerit points - Government of South Australia". Archived from the original on 2014-01-12. Retrieved 2014-01-12.
A demerit points scheme was introduced into the Northern Territory on 1 September 2007. Offences that accrue points include speeding, failing to obey a red traffic light or level crossing signal, failing to wear a seatbelt, drink driving, using a mobile phone, failure to display L or P plates, street racing, burnouts and causing damage.[5]
A suspension is effective from when the driver is personally served with the suspension notice and they must surrender their driving license to the person giving them the notice.
Running a stop sign or traffic signal or failing to yield, accident causing serious injury: 4 points
In case of the second alcohol abuse in 2 years, the driving license will be revoked.
MobileReference (2007). Travel Denmark Illustrated City Guide, Phrasebook, and Maps. Boston: MobileReference.com. ISBN 9781605011370.
People's Republic of China - see also Road Traffic Safety Law of the People's Republic of China
In some jurisdictions, points can also be added if the driver is found to be significantly at fault in a traffic accident.Points can be removed from a driver's score by the simple passage of time, by a period of time with no violations or accidents, or by the driver's completion of additional drivers' training or traffic safety training.
In Italy, the driver has 20 points by default, and receives a bonus of 2 points for every 2 years of correct behavior, with a maximum of 30 points.
Traffic laws are the responsibility of the Australian state and territory governments. Demerit points schemes have been adopted by all states and territories, and road authorities share information about interstate offenses.
^ "Demerit points - Government of South Australia". Archived from the original on 2014-01-12. Retrieved 2014-01-12.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
There are other offenses that can count toward this (e.g. HOV lane misuse is a 3-point offense)
2.3.2United States																								2.3.2.1Arizona																											2.3.2.2California																											2.3.2.3Colorado																											2.3.2.4Florida																											2.3.2.5Massachusetts																											2.3.2.6New Jersey																											2.3.2.7New York																											2.3.2.8North Carolina																											2.3.2.9Pennsylvania																											2.3.2.10South Carolina																											2.3.2.11Texas
NSW woman racks up 34 demerit points in Blue Mountains traffic stop
- Drivers who receive 14-20 points (over three years) can be disqualified from holding or obtaining a driving permit for up to one year.
"Penalty points for driving offences". Citizens Information Board. 28 May 2012. Retrieved 28 September 2013.
The Motor Vehicle and Road Traffic Bill 2016,[34] which was launched in September 2019, governs the points system, which is referred to as the Demerit Points System.
Driving or parking over area where one or more lanes diverge to go in different directions (gore area): 3 points
Incidents from out-of-state are treated as though they occurred in North Carolina for point assessment purposes.
^ ""The Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act 1995", Directgov". Archived from the original on September 26, 2006.
^ a b "Table 1. Offences Incurring Penalty Points and Fixed Charge Notices with effect from 3 August 2012" (PDF). Road Safety Authority. 15 August 2012. Retrieved 28 September 2013.
Points remain on the driver's record, and an endorsement is made upon the driver's licence, for four years from conviction (eleven years for drink- and drug-related convictions). 12 points on the licence within 3 years make the driver liable to disqualification; however this is not automatic, but must be decided by a law court.[10]
""The Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act 1995", Directgov". Archived from the original on September 26, 2006.
Failing to stop at a traffic signal = 4 points
"About the NJ MVC Driver Point System". New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission.
^ Ommundsen, Mads (15 July 2011). "Nå ryker førerkortet fortere enn du tror" (in Norwegian). Bergens Tidende. Archived from the original on 18 July 2011. Retrieved 16 July 2011.
"About the NYS Driver Point System". Department of Motor Vehicles. New York State. 2013-10-25. Retrieved 17 June 2019.
The California DMV will revoke a license after conviction for hit-and-run or reckless driving.
2.2Europe																								2.2.1Bulgaria																											2.2.2Denmark																											2.2.3Spain																											2.2.4United Kingdom																								2.2.4.1England and Wales																											2.2.4.2Northern Ireland																											2.2.4.3Scotland																														2.2.5Germany																											2.2.6Ireland																											2.2.7Italy																											2.2.8Netherlands																											2.2.9Norway
^ "Driving offences". Citizens Information Board. 16 April 2012. Retrieved 28 September 2013.
When a driver accumulates 15 or more points within a two-year period, their licence is automatically suspended for one month.[18]
15 mph or more over the speed limit = 4 points
^ "About the NJ MVC Driver Point System". New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission.
^ Department of Transport and Main Roads. "About demerit points | Demerit points". www.qld.gov.au. State of Queensland. Retrieved 22 August 2020.
Some of these violations could also directly result in loss of the licence. However, when a driver has 2 points, the licence is automatically revoked and a driving test has to be passed again, whereas normally, the violation would only result in the licence being suspended for several months. However, in Dutch media, the effectiveness has been doubted, it was said that points were being given but not always correctly registered.
9. Failure to submit breath analysis or willful alternation of concentration of alcohol in his breath or blood – 14 demerit points
5. Motor racing and speed trials between motor vehicles without permission carries a $1000 and six demerit points
Violation of curfew = 3 points (a licensed driver who is under the age of 17 may not operate a motor vehicle between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless accompanied by a driver who is 21 years of age or older and holds a valid driver license, or the operator is driving to or from work. A licensed driver who is 17 years of age may not operate a motor vehicle between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., unless accompanied by a driver who is 21 years of age or older and holds a valid driver license, or the operator is driving to and from work.)
^ "Danish and English dictionaries". Small labs. Retrieved 11 July 2012.
Denmark has a penalty point system that penalizes drivers with a klip ("cut/stamp")[8] for certain traffic violations. The term klip refers to a klippekort ("punch card ticket").[9] If a driver with a non-probationary license accumulates three penalty points, then police conditionally suspend the driver's license. To get a new license, suspended drivers must pass both written and practical drivers examinations. Drivers who have been suspended and first-time drivers must avoid collecting two penalty points for a three-year probationary period; if the driver has not accumulated any penalty points, then the driver is allowed an extra penalty point so they can have three maximum. Penalty points are deleted from the police database three years after they were assessed. Police can also unconditionally ban people from driving.
2.3North America																								2.3.1Canada																								2.3.1.1Alberta																											2.3.1.2Ontario																											2.3.1.3New Brunswick																														2.3.2United States																								2.3.2.1Arizona																											2.3.2.2California																											2.3.2.3Colorado																											2.3.2.4Florida																											2.3.2.5Massachusetts																											2.3.2.6New Jersey																											2.3.2.7New York																											2.3.2.8North Carolina																											2.3.2.9Pennsylvania																											2.3.2.10South Carolina																											2.3.2.11Texas
In Massachusetts point system is known as Safe Driver Insurance Plan (SDIP).[27] This encourages safe driving with lower premiums for drivers who do not cause accidents or commit traffic violations, and by ensuring that high-risk drivers pay a greater share of insurance costs. The points are accumulated over a six-year period, and reduced for sustained periods of safe driving.
"Driving offences". Citizens Information Board. 16 April 2012. Retrieved 28 September 2013.
14 mph or less over the speed limit = 3 points
DUI (blood alcohol concentration (BAC) of 0.08% or higher): 8 points
12. Use of Priority Bus Route by unauthorised vehicle - $2000, six demerit points
^ "Driving-offence points system". Transport Departmant, The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Retrieved 2015-06-22.
The DMV point system assigns 2 to 4 points upon conviction or an admission of guilt for most moving violations; non-moving violations carry no points. A driver's license is suspended for 60 days on the first suspension if twelve points are assessed against the license within a three-year period. Serious offenses, such as DWI and excessive speeding (more than 15 mph over the limit at a travelled speed of greater than 55 mph), result in an immediate suspension on conviction. Points are not assessed for up to two granted Prayers for Judgment Continued (PJC) within a five-year period, though some serious offenses (such as DUI, passing a stopped school bus, and speeding in excess of 25 mph over the posted speed limit) are ineligible for a PJC.
"Demerit Point System for Fully Licenced Drivers". Government of Alberta. 3 October 2007.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Arizona uses a point system where your license will be suspended if 8 points are accumulated in one year.Offenses that lead to this are the following:
If the motorist accumulates 6 or more points on their license, they are in danger of losing their license. If the motorist is under 18 years of age and has 6 points or more on their license or receives a ticket for speeding 26 miles (or more) over the posted speed limit, then their license will be suspended. For every one-year period (from the date of the most recent violation) that a motorist has no point related violations, PennDOT will remove a maximum of 3 points from their record.
"What is a Point". Calif DMV. Retrieved 26 Nov 2016.
Bulgaria has implemented a penalty point system with a total of 34 points, introduced in 1999. In 2017, this was increased to 39 points.[7]
"Motor Vehicle Registry Information Bulletin - L30 - Northern Territory Demerit Points Scheme"
"Table 1. Offences Incurring Penalty Points and Fixed Charge Notices with effect from 3 August 2012" (PDF). Road Safety Authority. 15 August 2012. Retrieved 28 September 2013.
Exceeding the speedlimit by more than 40 km/h (motorways), or 30 km/h (all other roads)
New Brunswick uses a 10-point system where points are "removed" from a driver's record following a conviction, when a driver reaches 0 points they lose their license. New drivers begin with only 4 points on their license and gain two additional points each year of safe driving to a maximum of 10 points. For example; if you are caught driving while distracted while using a cellphone or GPS in New Brunswick, You will be fined as well as lose 3 points from your license. if you (or any passengers under the age of 16) are caught not wearing a seatbelt in New Brunswick, You will be fined as well as lose 2 points from your license.[21]
Find sources: "Point system" driving – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ "Penalty points for driving offences". Citizens Information Board. 28 May 2012. Retrieved 28 September 2013.
North Carolina operates two parallel point systems: one for DMV license suspension purposes and one for insurance purposes.
In the Republic of Ireland, twelve points accrued results in six months' disqualification.[13] 38 regulatory offences notified by post incur 1-2 point penalties on payment of a fine.[14]10 more serious offences require a mandatory court appearance and incur 3-5 point penalties.[14] The most serious offences are outside the penalty point system and incur automatic driving bans, and in some cases imprisonment.[15]
"Understanding Demerit Points". Government of Ontario. 5 June 2013.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
It can take up to two years for points to be expunged from your record, but points expire a year after the date of the violation.
A demerit points scheme was introduced in Victoria in 1970. Learner and probationary drivers who accumulate 5 points or more in a 12-month period may accept a three-month licence suspension or may opt for a 12-month bond. If a driver breaches the bond by incurring 1 point in the 12-month bond period, their licence is suspended for six months. Full licence holders can accumulate 12 points in a 3-year period and are entitled to the same bond option. The list of traffic offences and their respective points is in schedule 3 of the Road Safety (Drivers) Regulations 2009.
Department of Transport and Main Roads. "About demerit points | Demerit points". www.qld.gov.au. State of Queensland. Retrieved 22 August 2020.
Provisional licence holders are allowed to incur different numbers of points, depending on their licence class, before their licence is suspended for three months. Holders of a P1 licence, which lasts 12–18 months (which can be renewed), can incur 4 points, and P2 licence holders can incur 7 points in a 24- to 30-month period (which can be renewed). Speeding offences for provisional licence holders incur 4 points, meaning that P1 holders will be suspended after one speeding offence of any speed.
The system is called "prikkbelastning" with prikk(er) meaning point(s). Points are assessed to a driver's license for traffic violations which do not by themselves result in immediate revocation of the license.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Point system" driving – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
For out-of-state offenses, New York State Department of Motor Vehicles does not record point violations, with the exception of violations from Quebec and Ontario.[31]
7. Driving or being in charge of a vehicle while blood alcohol levels exceed prescribed limit – nine demerit points
"Table 1. Offences Incurring Penalty Points and Fixed Charge Notices with effect from 3 August 2012"
^ "LTO hopes 'premium' license cards to curb road accidents". Philippine News Agency. 25 August 2020. Retrieved 6 December 2021.
1. Using a wireless communication device to view, send or compose an electronic message while driving or having charge of a vehicle carries a fixed penalty fine of $1,000 and the award of six demerit points.
^ "Forskrift om Prikkbelastning" (in Norwegian). regjeringen.no (Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications). 2003-09-18. Retrieved 2009-09-09.
Major traffic offenses, such as hit and run or drunk driving may or may not be handled within the point system.Such offenses often carry a mandatory suspension of driving privileges, and may incur penalties such as imprisonment.
Ontario uses a 15-point system where points are "added" to a driver's record following a conviction, though Ontario's point system is unrelated to safe driving behaviour (a lone driver using a high-occupancy vehicle lane in Ontario will earn three demerit points).[19]
24 points earned within 36 months results in a 12-month suspension.
6. Driving when under the influence of drug will attract nine demerit points
"About the NYS Driver Point System". New York State Department of Motor Vehicles. 2013-10-25.
During holiday periods, double demerit points apply for speeding, seatbelt and helmet-related offences.[1] Offences in school zones attract more points than in other areas. Automatic suspensions apply for all drink- and drug-driving offences, as well as speeding by more than 30 km/h.
Engaging in lewd conduct and prostitution in a vehicle within 1000 feet (300 m) of a residence.
The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) has a point system that follows:
2Jurisdictions that use a point system											Toggle Jurisdictions that use a point system subsection																					2.1Australia																								2.1.1New South Wales																											2.1.2Victoria																											2.1.3South Australia																											2.1.4Northern Territory																											2.1.5Queensland																														2.2Europe																								2.2.1Bulgaria																											2.2.2Denmark																											2.2.3Spain																											2.2.4United Kingdom																								2.2.4.1England and Wales																											2.2.4.2Northern Ireland																											2.2.4.3Scotland																														2.2.5Germany																											2.2.6Ireland																											2.2.7Italy																											2.2.8Netherlands																											2.2.9Norway																														2.3North America																								2.3.1Canada																								2.3.1.1Alberta																											2.3.1.2Ontario																											2.3.1.3New Brunswick																														2.3.2United States																								2.3.2.1Arizona																											2.3.2.2California																											2.3.2.3Colorado																											2.3.2.4Florida																											2.3.2.5Massachusetts																											2.3.2.6New Jersey																											2.3.2.7New York																											2.3.2.8North Carolina																											2.3.2.9Pennsylvania																											2.3.2.10South Carolina																											2.3.2.11Texas																																	2.4South America																								2.4.1Brazil
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Speed limit". 19 April 2021.
In all states, drivers holding a full, unrestricted license will be disqualified from driving after accumulating 12 demerit points or more within a three-year period, except in New South Wales, where drivers are allowed 13 points in a three-year period. Those who can prove they are professional drivers are allowed an additional point. The licence suspension period is three months, plus one further month for every extra four points beyond the threshold, with a cap in most states of five months (for 8 points or more over the threshold; e.g. 20 points or more on a full license). As an alternative to accepting immediate suspension, a driver can apply for a "good behavior" period of 12 months. In most states, drivers under a good behavior period who accumulate one or two further points (except in Victoria, which does not allow any further offences) have their licence suspended for double the original period.
Moving violation (includes driving during restricted hours and parking on a highway outside the limits of a municipality) = 3 points
Each traffic violation incurs a specific point penalty (for example, ignoring a traffic light involves a penalty of 6 points).If the driver loses all points, the driving license is revoked.
"Pay driver responsibility assessment". Department of Motor Vehicles. New York State. 2013-10-25. Retrieved 17 June 2019.
- Drivers who receive 10-14 points (over three years) can be disqualified from holding or obtaining a driving permit for a period of six months.
Speeding 31 miles over the posted speed limit (15-day suspension)
Causing the death of another due to the motorist's fault
"LTO hopes 'premium' license cards to curb road accidents". Philippine News Agency. 25 August 2020. Retrieved 6 December 2021.
^ MobileReference (2007). Travel Denmark Illustrated City Guide, Phrasebook, and Maps. Boston: MobileReference.com. ISBN 9781605011370.
A driver reaching 8 points in three years loses his or her driving license for 6 months. Each point is deleted when three years have passed since the violation took place. When the driving privileges are restored after the six-month ban, the points which caused the suspension are deleted.[17]
The threshold(s) to determine additional penalties may vary based on the driver's experience level, prior driving record, age, educational level attained, and other factors.In particular, it is common to set a lower threshold for young, inexperienced motorists.
Florida uses a point system similar to that of Colorado. The Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles is the department responsible for the issuance of Driver's Licenses in the state and will also track points issued to drivers who are licensed within the state. The following are point values assigned for the following infractions.
Road Traffic Safety Law of the People's Republic of China
"Total aircraft movements by class of operation – NAV CANADA towers". Statcan.gc.ca. Archived from the original on December 18, 2014. Retrieved February 24, 2015.
^ a b c d "The Canada Country Study: Climate Impacts and Adaptation: Ontario Region Executive Summary". Environment Canada. Archived from the original on March 23, 2013. Retrieved January 29, 2013.
"NHS Profile, Ontario, 2011". Archived from the original on July 3, 2013. Retrieved December 26, 2013.
^ "New French Slogan Licence Plate for Passenger Vehicles". Government of Ontario. June 10, 2010. Archived from the original on July 28, 2010. Retrieved July 29, 2010.
The following figure is taken from the province's "Inclusive Definition of Francophones," (IDF) which includes those whose mother tongue is French, and those whose mother tongue is not French, but have proficiency in the language, and use French as the primary language at home.
David Crane (February 20, 2012). "Ontario has to learn to live with high dollar". thestar.com. Archived from the original on October 10, 2017.
Ontario has three types of first-level administrative divisions. They include single-tier municipalities, upper-tier municipalities (which may be in the form of either regional municipalities or counties), and districts. Upper-tier municipalities and districts are made up of smaller municipalities and other types of administrative divisions.
"Biography – MACKENZIE, WILLIAM LYON – Volume IX (1861–1870)". Dictionary of Canadian Biography. Archived from the original on January 5, 2021. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
Morrow, Adrian; Atkins, Eric (November 21, 2013). "Cliffs' pullout forces Ontario action in Ring of Fire mining area". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on July 1, 2016.
^ "Heinz closes Leamington plant, 740 people out of work". cbc.ca. November 15, 2013. Archived from the original on November 24, 2013.
Tourism contributes heavily to the economy of Central Ontario, peaking during the summer months owing to the abundance of fresh water recreation and wilderness found there in reasonable proximity to the major urban centres. At other times of the year, hunting, skiing and snowmobiling are popular. This region has some of the most vibrant fall colour displays anywhere on the continent, and tours directed at overseas visitors are organized to see them. Tourism also plays a key role in border cities with large casinos, among them Windsor, Cornwall, Sarnia and Niagara Falls, the latter of which attracts millions of US and other international visitors.[87]
^ "Law Document English View". Ontario.ca. July 24, 2014. Archived from the original on November 14, 2021. Retrieved May 14, 2019.
John Graves Simcoe was appointed Upper Canada's first Lieutenant governor in 1793.[47] A second wave of Americans, not all of them necessarily loyalists moved to Upper Canada after 1790 until the pre-war of 1812, many seeking available cheap land, and at the time, lower taxation.
In 2011, 25.9 per cent of the population consisted of visible minorities and 2.4 per cent of the population was Indigenous, mostly of First Nations and Métis descent. There was also a small number of Inuit in the province. The number of Indigenous people and visible minorities has been increasing at a faster rate than the general population of Ontario.[58]
"120 years of Capital building". National Capital Commission. 2019. Archived from the original on July 16, 2022. Retrieved September 14, 2019.
^ Vanderveen, Cale (April 2, 2015). "Metrolinx Preparing For Massive GO Transit Service Expansion". Urban Toronto. Archived from the original on February 27, 2021. Retrieved September 11, 2020.
"Ontario projects steady rise in electricity costs for next 20 years"
^ a b "Welcome to the Ecclesiastical Province of Ontario". province-ontario.anglican.ca. Archived from the original on July 16, 2022. Retrieved January 23, 2019.
"Ontario is the largest province in the country by population". Statistics Canada. Archived from the original on June 10, 2008. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
^ Mathieu, Jacques (September 4, 2013). "Nouvelle-France". The Canadian Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on July 10, 2022. Retrieved July 10, 2022.
^ a b "Ontario – Canada.ca". canada.ca. Government of Canada. August 15, 2017. Archived from the original on September 12, 2019. Retrieved November 22, 2021.
The northern and western boundaries of Ontario were in dispute after Canadian Confederation. Ontario's right to Northwestern Ontario was determined by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in 1884 and confirmed by the Canada (Ontario Boundary) Act, 1889 of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. By 1899, there were seven northern districts: Algoma, Manitoulin, Muskoka, Nipissing, Parry Sound, Rainy River, and Thunder Bay. Four more northern districts were created between 1907 and 1912: Cochrane, Kenora, Sudbury and Timiskaming.[53]
"Hurontario Light Rail Transit construction on track to begin next year"
Ontario Visual Heritage Project – Non-profit documentary project about Ontario's history
In the 15th century, the Byzantine Empire fell, prompting Western Europeans to search for new sea routes to the Far East. Around 1522–1523, Giovanni da Verrazzano persuaded King Francis I of France to commission an expedition to find a western route to Cathay (China) via a Northwest Passage. Though this expedition was unsuccessful, it established the name "New France" for northeastern North America.[38] After a few expeditions, France mostly abandoned North America for 50 years because of its financial crisis; France was involved in the Italian Wars and there were religious wars between Protestants and Catholics.[39] Around 1580 however, the rise of the fur trade (particularly the demand for beaver pelts), reignited French interest.[40]
"Federal government employment, wages and salaries, by census metropolitan area – (Employment)", 2006–2010
As for Northern Ontario, the English explorer Henry Hudson sailed into Hudson Bay in 1611 and claimed its drainage basin for England. The area would become known as Rupert's Land.
^ Branch, Legislative Services. "Consolidated federal laws of canada, Access to Information Act". Laws.justice.gc.ca. Archived from the original on May 27, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
"Official Ontario Road Maps Produced 1971–2006". Ontarioroadmaps.ca. Archived from the original on August 8, 2007. Retrieved October 17, 2010.
^ "Windsor A, Ontario". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 12, 2014.
"Office of the French Language Services Commissioner of Ontario – Law"
"Private Career Colleges (PCCs)". Tcu.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on June 16, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
"Ontario Unveils Green Energy and Green Economy Act, 2009". Renewableenergyworld.com. Archived from the original on November 13, 2013. Retrieved October 17, 2010.
"Huronontario LRT: Expected Completion: fall 2024". metrolinx.com. Archived from the original on June 18, 2021. Retrieved June 21, 2021.
"Profile table, Census Profile, 2021 Census of Population - British Columbia [Province];Ontario [Province];Alberta [Province];Yukon [Territory]"
This page was last edited on 8 March 2023, at 16:09 (UTC).
Mining and the forest products industry, notably pulp and paper, are vital to the economy of Northern Ontario. As of 2011, roughly 200,000 ha are clearcut each year; herbicides for hardwood suppression are applied to a third of the total.[73] There has been controversy over the Ring of Fire mineral deposit, and whether the province can afford to spend CAD$2.25 billion on a road from the Trans-Canada Highway near Kenora to the deposit, currently valued at CAD$60 billion.[74]
^ "Definition of Ontarian". Collins Online Dictionary. HarperCollins Publishers. Archived from the original on October 4, 2013. Retrieved October 3, 2013.
"The Canada Country Study: Climate Impacts and Adaptation: Ontario Region Executive Summary". Environment Canada. Archived from the original on March 23, 2013. Retrieved January 29, 2013.
"ECanada’s largest tech park, Kanata North, about to roar", Feb 2017
"Population estimates, quarterly". Statistics Canada. June 14, 2018. Archived from the original on June 19, 2016. Retrieved April 12, 2020.
Southern Ontario's limited supply of agricultural land is going out of production at an increasing rate. Urban sprawl and farmland severances contribute to the loss of thousands of acres of productive agricultural land in Ontario each year. Over 2,000 farms and 150,000 acres (61,000 ha) of farmland in the GTA alone were lost to production in the two decades between 1976 and 1996. This loss represented approximately 18%". of Ontario's Class 1 farmland being converted to urban purposes. In addition, increasing rural severances provide ever-greater interference with agricultural production.[92] In an effort to protect the farmland and green spaces of the National Capital Region, and Greater Toronto Area, the Federal[93] and Provincial Governments introduced greenbelts around Ottawa[94] and the Golden Horseshoe, limiting urban development in these areas.[95]
Celebrating One Thousand Years of Ontario's History: Proceedings of the Celebrating One Thousand Years of Ontario's History Symposium, April 14, 15 and 16, 2000. Ontario Historical Society, 2000. 343 pp.
6Government, law and politics											Toggle Government, law and politics subsection																					6.1Law																											6.2Politics																											6.3Administrative divisions																											6.4Urban areas
"Midland Water Pollution Control Plant". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. September 25, 2013. Archived from the original on May 17, 2017. Retrieved May 9, 2016.
Mayda, Chris (2013). A Regional Geography of the United States and Canada: Toward a Sustainable Future. Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield. p. 109. ISBN 9780742556904. Archived from the original on August 17, 2021. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
Rubel, Franz (January 24, 2017). "WORLD MAPS OF KÖPPEN-GEIGER CLIMATE CLASSIFICATION". Vetmeduni Vienna. Archived from the original on December 10, 2021. Retrieved December 9, 2021.
^ "Gross domestic product, expenditure-based, by province and territory (2015)". Statistics Canada. November 9, 2016. Archived from the original on September 19, 2012. Retrieved January 26, 2017.
Common types of farms reported in the 2001 census include those for cattle, small grains and dairy. The fruit- and wine industry is primarily on the Niagara Peninsula, Prince Edward County, and along the northern shore of Lake Erie, where tobacco farms are also situated. Market vegetables grow in the rich soils of the Holland Marsh near Newmarket. The area near Windsor is also very fertile. The Heinz plant in Leamington was taken over in these autumn of 2013 by Warren Buffett and a Brazilian partner, following which it put 740 people out of work.[89] Government subsidies followed shortly; Premier Kathleen Wynne offered CAD$200,000 to cushion the blow, and promised that another processed-food operator would soon be found.[90] On December 10, 2013, Kellogg's announced layoffs for more than 509 workers at a cereal manufacture plant in London.[91]
^ a b "Land and freshwater area, by province and territory". Statistics Canada. February 1, 2005. Archived from the original on October 19, 2012. Retrieved August 5, 2012.
Franco-Ontarians are concentrated in the northeastern, eastern, and extreme southern parts of the province, where under the French Language Services Act,[66] provincial government services are required to be available in French if at least 10 per cent of a designated area's population report French as their native language or if an urban centre has at least 5,000 francophones.
^ "About Canada // Ontario". Study Canada. pp. Last Paragraph–second–last sentence. Archived from the original on July 6, 2011. Retrieved April 23, 2011. The name "Ontario" is generally thought to be derived from the Iroquois word Skanadario, meaning "beautiful water"
^ "Midland Water Pollution Control Plant". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. September 25, 2013. Archived from the original on May 17, 2017. Retrieved May 9, 2016.
"William Lyon Mackenzie". The Canadian Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on January 5, 2021. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
^ Joseph Brean (December 7, 2013). "The quantum computing revolution: BlackBerry billionaire Mike Lazaridis is betting on tech that hasn't been invented … yet". National Post. Archived from the original on December 15, 2013.
The 2018 provincial election resulted in a Progressive Conservative majority government under party leader Doug Ford, who was sworn in as Premier on June 29. Ontario NDP leader Andrea Horwath was sworn in as the leader of her Majesty's Loyal Opposition.
"Renewable energy facts". www.nrcan.gc.ca. Canada Natural Resources. October 6, 2017. Archived from the original on October 22, 2018. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
"Definition of Ontarian". Collins Online Dictionary. HarperCollins Publishers. Archived from the original on October 4, 2013. Retrieved October 3, 2013.
^ "Emo Radbourne". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on June 4, 2016. Retrieved May 9, 2016.
^ "Wynne offers $200K to help Leamington in wake of Heinz closure". Toronto. November 22, 2013. Archived from the original on November 25, 2013.
The nationalist movement in Quebec, particularly after the election of the Parti Québécois in 1976, contributed to driving many businesses and English-speaking people out of Quebec to Ontario, and as a result, Toronto surpassed Montreal as the largest city and economic centre of Canada.[54] Depressed economic conditions in the Maritime Provinces have also resulted in de-population of those provinces in the 20th century, with heavy migration into Ontario.[55][56]
The percentages given below add to more than 100 per cent because of dual responses (e.g., "French and Canadian" response generates an entry both in the category "French Canadian" and in the category "Canadian").
Branch, Legislative Services. "Consolidated federal laws of canada, Access to Information Act". Laws.justice.gc.ca. Archived from the original on May 27, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
"Le Pays-d'en-Haut (Canada)". Archived from the original on June 21, 2021. Retrieved July 16, 2022.
Ministry of Transportation (Ontario) (August 6, 2002). "Ontario government investing $401 million to upgrade Highway 401". Archived from the original on September 14, 2007. Retrieved December 20, 2006.
Hamilton is the largest steel manufacturing city in Canada followed closely by Sault Ste. Marie, and Sarnia is the centre for petrochemical production. Construction employed more than 6.5% of the province's work force in June 2011.[75] Ontario's steel industry was once centred in Hamilton. Hamilton harbour, which can be seen from the QEW Skyway bridge, is an industrial wasteland; U.S. Steel-owned Stelco announced in the autumn of 2013 that it would close in 2014, with the loss of 875 jobs. The move flummoxed a union representative, who seemed puzzled why a plant with capacity of 2 million tons per annum would be shut while Canada imported 8 million tons of steel the previous year.[76] Algoma Steel maintains a plant in Sault Ste Marie.
News Review Media E.D.D. (October 29, 2019). "Hurontario Light Rail Transit construction on track to begin next year". Peel Region Review. Archived from the original on September 24, 2020. Retrieved September 11, 2020.
"Accueil". Assembly of Catholic Bishops of Ontario (in French). Archived from the original on February 10, 2018. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
^ "Early Districts and Counties 1788–1899". Archives of Ontario. September 5, 2006. Archived from the original on January 30, 2010. Retrieved November 29, 2006.
There are several city rail-transit systems in the Province. The Toronto Transit Commission operates subways, as well as streetcars (being one of the busiest streetcar systems in North America). OC Transpo operates alight rail metro system in Ottawa.[126] In addition, Waterloo region operates a surface light rail system.[127] Plans to build a light rail line is also underway in the Regional Municipality of Peel.[128][129]
Trudel, Marcel (1963). Histoire de la Nouvelle-France : les vaines tentatives 1524–1603. Fides. p. 307.
"Ontario". Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. Archived from the original on October 24, 2006. Retrieved November 29, 2006.
"Feds, Ontario invest $142M in Oakville Ford plant". Torontosun.com. Archived from the original on July 13, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
^ "Niagara Falls NPCSH". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 12, 2014.
Ontario. Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary (11th ed.). New York: New YorkMerriam-Webster, Inc. 2003. ISBN 978-0-87779-809-5.
Finance, Government of Ontario, Ministry of. "Ontario Fact Sheet May 2016". Fin.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on June 13, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
^ "Canadian Federal and Provincial Fiscal Tables" (PDF). Economic Forecasts & Special Reports. Royal Bank of Canada. January 14, 2020. Archived (PDF) from the original on February 5, 2020. Retrieved January 18, 2020.
"Economic indicators, by province and territory (monthly and quarterly) (Ontario)"
Samuel de Champlain reached Lake Huron in 1615, and French missionaries, such as the Jésuites and Supliciens, began to establish posts along the Great Lakes. The French allied with most Indigenous groups of Ontario, all for the fur trade and for defence against Iroquois attacks (which would later be called the Iroquois Wars). The French would declare their Indigenous allies to be subjects of the King of France and would often act as mediators between different groups. The Iroquois later allied themselves with the British.[43]
"Moody's downgrades Ontario credit rating". April 26, 2012. Archived from the original on April 6, 2014.
The information technology sector is important, particularly in the Silicon Valley North section of Ottawa, home to Canada's largest technology park.[85] IT is also important in the Waterloo Region, where the headquarters of BlackBerry is located.[86]
^ "Kenora Airport". Canadian Climate Normal's 1981–2010. Environment Canada. 2011. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 9, 2014.
The Green Energy and Green Economy Act, 2009 (GEA), takes a two-pronged approach to commercializing renewable energy; first, it aims to bring more renewable energy sources to the province; and secondly, it aims to adopt more energy-efficiency measures to help conserve energy. The bill envisaged appointing a Renewable Energy Facilitator to provide "one-window" assistance and support to project developers to facilitate project approvals.[100]
Remote and isolated towns and settlements in the northern areas of the province rely partly or entirely on air service for travel, goods, and even ambulance services (MEDIVAC), since much of the far northern area of the province cannot be reached by road (or by year-round road) or rail.
^ "Sudbury A, Ontario". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 12, 2014.
"Private Universities". Tcu.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on July 3, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
^ "Toronto Pearson (Enplaned + Deplaned) Passengers" (PDF). GTAA. February 8, 2016. Archived from the original (PDF) on February 16, 2016. Retrieved March 5, 2016.
In 1973, the first slogan to appear on licence plates in Ontario was "Keep It Beautiful". This was replaced by "Yours to Discover" in 1982,[115] apparently inspired by a tourism slogan, "Discover Ontario", dating back to 1927.[116] Plates with the French equivalent, Tant à découvrir, were made available to the public beginning in May 2008.[117] (From 1988 to 1990,[118] "Ontario Incredible"[119] gave "Yours to Discover" a brief respite.)
^ a b "About Ontario; History; French and British Struggle for Domination". Government of Ontario. Archived from the original on September 5, 2007. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
"Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on January 19, 2022. Retrieved July 10, 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ "NHS Profile, Ontario, 2011". Archived from the original on July 3, 2013. Retrieved December 26, 2013.
"About Canada // Ontario". Study Canada. pp. Last Paragraph–second–last sentence. Archived from the original on July 6, 2011. Retrieved April 23, 2011. The name "Ontario" is generally thought to be derived from the Iroquois word Skanadario, meaning "beautiful water"
"View of Confederation's Casualties: The "Maritimer" as a Problem in 1960s Toronto | Acadiensis"
^ "Private Career Colleges (PCCs)". Tcu.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on June 16, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
The thinly populated Canadian Shield, which dominates the northwestern and central portions of the province, comprises over half the land area of Ontario. Although this area mostly does not support agriculture, it is rich in minerals, partly covered by the Central and Midwestern Canadian Shield forests, and studded with lakes and rivers. Northern Ontario is subdivided into two sub-regions: Northwestern Ontario and Northeastern Ontario.
The British North America Act 1867 section 69 stipulated "There shall be a Legislature for Ontario consisting of the Lieutenant Governor and of One House, styled the Legislative Assembly of Ontario." The assembly currently has 124 seats (increased from 107 as of the 42nd Ontario general election) representing ridings elected in a first-past-the-post system across the province.
"Population and dwelling counts, for Canada, provinces and territories, census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations, 2006 and 2001 censuses – 100% data"
^ Marquis, Greg (January 2010). "View of Confederation's Casualties: The "Maritimer" as a Problem in 1960s Toronto | Acadiensis". Acadiensis. Archived from the original on February 1, 2021. Retrieved January 28, 2021.
"S&P downgrades Ontario's credit outlook". Toronto Star. April 25, 2012. Archived from the original on October 10, 2017.
"Ontario Population Projections, 2018–2046". Government of Ontario Ministry of Finance. Archived from the original on March 28, 2020. Retrieved April 12, 2020.
^ "About Ontario". Ontario.ca. Queen's Printer for Ontario. March 7, 2019. Archived from the original on January 8, 2020. Retrieved January 8, 2020.
^ "Huronontario LRT: Expected Completion: fall 2024". metrolinx.com. Archived from the original on June 18, 2021. Retrieved June 21, 2021.
^ Butterfield, David W.; Deal, Kenneth R.; Kubursi, Atif A. (1998). "Measuring the Returns to Tourism Advertising". Journal of Travel Research. 37 (1): 12–20. doi:10.1177/004728759803700102. S2CID 154905439.
"The Constitutional Act of 1791". Archived from the original on August 29, 2007. Retrieved January 15, 2007.
*Parts of Quebec (including Gatineau) are included in the Ottawa CMA. The population of the Ottawa CMA, in both provinces, is shown.
"There's more to discover in Ontario". Ontariotravel.net. Archived from the original on June 10, 2008. Retrieved October 17, 2010.[better source needed]
^ "Labour force characteristics, unadjusted, by census metropolitan area (3 month moving average) – (Ottawa-Gatineau (Ont.-Que.), Ottawa (Ont.)-Gatineau (Que.), Ontario part, Ottawa (Ont.)-Gatineau (Que.), Quebec part)", 2010/2011 Archived November 7, 2011, at the Wayback Machine, Statistics Canada
^ "Accueil". Assembly of Catholic Bishops of Ontario (in French). Archived from the original on February 10, 2018. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
^ "| Library | University of Waterloo". Lib.uwaterloo.ca. Archived from the original on May 27, 2009. Retrieved May 6, 2009.
"Census Profile, 2016 Census – Ontario – Language Profile". statcan.gc.ca. Stat Canada. August 9, 2019. Archived from the original on May 22, 2020. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
"Étienne Brûlé". Britannica.com. Archived from the original on December 7, 2008. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
^ "Federal government employment, wages and salaries, by census metropolitan area – (Employment)", 2006–2010 Archived October 25, 2011, at the Wayback Machine, Statistics Canada
Ontario is home to Niagara Falls, which supplies a large amount of electricity to the province. The Bruce Nuclear Generating Station, the largest operational nuclear power plant in the world, is also in Ontario and uses 8 CANDU reactors to generate electricity for the province.
"Employment by major industry groups, seasonally adjusted, by province (monthly) – (Ontario)", June 2011, Statistics Canada
After the American War of Independence, the first reserves for First Nations were established. These are situated at Six Nations (1784), Tyendinaga (1793) and Akwesasne (1795). Six Nations and Tyendinaga were established by the British for those Indigenous groups who had fought on the side of the British, and were expelled from the new United States. Akwesasne was a pre-existing Mohawk community and its borders were formalized under the 1795 Jay Treaty.
"Lakes and Rivers". Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources. Archived from the original on March 23, 2014. Retrieved March 23, 2014.
^ "ECanada’s largest tech park, Kanata North, about to roar", Feb 2017 Archived May 17, 2019, at the Wayback Machine, The Wedge
"Labour force, employed and unemployed, numbers and rates, by province (Quebec, Ontario, Manitoba)". Statistics Canada. Archived from the original on July 6, 2011. Retrieved July 18, 2011.
Joseph Brean (December 7, 2013). "The quantum computing revolution: BlackBerry billionaire Mike Lazaridis is betting on tech that hasn't been invented … yet". National Post. Archived from the original on December 15, 2013.
"Ontario – Canada.ca". canada.ca. Government of Canada. August 15, 2017. Archived from the original on September 12, 2019. Retrieved November 22, 2021.
"About Ontario". Queen's Printer for Ontario. February 28, 2016. Archived from the original on March 5, 2016.
"Sudbury A, Ontario". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 12, 2014.
In the northeastern parts of Ontario, extending south as far as Kirkland Lake, the cold waters of Hudson Bay depress summer temperatures, making it cooler than other locations at similar latitudes. The same is true on the northern shore of Lake Superior, which cools hot, humid air from the south, leading to cooler summer temperatures.[21] Along the eastern shores of Lake Superior and Lake Huron winter temperatures are slightly moderated but come with frequent heavy lake-effect snow squalls that increase seasonal snowfall totals to upwards of 3 m (10 ft) in some places. These regions have higher annual precipitation, in some places over 100 cm (39 in).
^ "Total aircraft movements by class of operation – NAV CANADA towers". Statcan.gc.ca. Archived from the original on December 18, 2014. Retrieved February 24, 2015.
"'His legend lives on': Ontario to get poet laureate in memory of Gord Downie". CBC News. December 12, 2019. Archived from the original on December 12, 2019. Retrieved December 13, 2019.
^ "Lakes and Rivers". Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources. Archived from the original on March 23, 2014. Retrieved March 23, 2014.
"Federal government employment, wages and salaries, by census metropolitan area – (Employment)", 2006–2010 Archived October 25, 2011, at the Wayback Machine, Statistics Canada
In 1608, Samuel de Champlain established France's first colonial settlement in New France, the Habitation de Québec (now Quebec City), in the colony of Canada (now southern Quebec). Afterwards, French explorers continued to travel west, establishing new villages along the coasts of the Saint Lawrence River. French explorers, the first of which was Étienne Brûlé who explored the Georgian Bay area in 1610–1612,[41] mapped Southern Ontario and called the region the Pays d'en Haut ("Upper Country"), in reference to the region being upstream of the Saint Lawrence River. The colony of the Pays d'en Haut was formally established in 1610 as an administrative dependency of Canada, and was for defence and business rather than a settlement colony. The territory of the Pays-d'en-Haut was quite large and would today include the province of Ontario, as well as, in whole or in part, the American states of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York. Indigenous peoples were the vast majority of the Pays d'en Haut population.[42]
"Welcome to the Ecclesiastical Province of Ontario". province-ontario.anglican.ca. Archived from the original on July 16, 2022. Retrieved January 23, 2019.
"Cliffs' pullout forces Ontario action in Ring of Fire mining area"
An abundance of natural resources, excellent transportation links to the North American heartland and the inland Great Lakes making ocean access possible via container ships, have all contributed to making manufacturing the principal industry of the province, found mainly in the Golden Horseshoe region, which is the largest industrialized area in Canada, the southern end of the region being part of the North American Rust Belt. Important products include motor vehicles, iron, steel, food, electrical appliances, machinery, chemicals, and paper.
The principal language of Ontario is English, the province's de facto official language,[63] with approximately 97.2 per cent of Ontarians having proficiency in the language, although only 69.5 per cent of Ontarians reported English as their mother tongue in the 2016 Census.[64] English is one of two official languages of Canada, with the other being French. English and French are the official languages of the courts in Ontario. Approximately 4.6 per cent of the population identified as francophone,[65][note 1] and a total of 11.5 per cent of Ontarians reported having proficiency in French.[64] Approximately 11.2 per cent of Ontarians reported being bilingual in both English and French.[64] Approximately 2.5 per cent of Ontarians have no proficiency in either English or French.[64]
The virtually unpopulated Hudson Bay Lowlands in the extreme north and northeast are mainly swampy and sparsely forested.
Ontario had the most wind energy capacity of the country with 4,900 MW of power (41% of Canada's capacity).[101]
"'His legend lives on': Ontario to get poet laureate in memory of Gord Downie"
"Population and dwelling counts, for Canada, provinces and territories, census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations, 2006 and 2001 censuses – 100% data". Statistics Canada. November 5, 2008. Archived from the original on May 4, 2009. Retrieved April 1, 2009.
^ Keenan, Greg (October 29, 2013). "U.S. Steel ends an era in Hamilton". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on May 16, 2017.
Beginning with Macdonald's National Policy (1879) and the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway (1875–1885) through Northern Ontario and the Canadian Prairies to British Columbia, Ontario manufacturing and industry flourished. However, population increases slowed after a large recession hit the province in 1893, thus slowing growth drastically but for only a few years. Many newly arrived immigrants and others moved west along the railway to the Prairie Provinces and British Columbia, sparsely settling Northern Ontario.
The area defined as the Corn Belt covers much of the southwestern area of the province, extending as far north as close to Goderich, but corn and soy are grown throughout the southern portion of the province. Apple orchards are a common sight along the southern shore of Nottawasaga Bay (part of Georgian Bay) near Collingwood and along the northern shore of Lake Ontario near Cobourg. Tobacco production, centred in Norfolk County, has decreased, allowing an increase in alternative crops such as hazelnuts and ginseng. The Ontario origins of Massey Ferguson, once one of the largest farm-implement manufacturers in the world, indicate the importance agriculture once[citation needed] had to the Canadian economy.
^ "Ontario Power Generation: Power Generation". Opg.com. Archived from the original on February 26, 2011. Retrieved February 23, 2011.
Outdoor recreation is popular in Southern Ontario and the region is home to numerous cultural events and festivals. There is no single regional dish in Southern Ontario, but fish and wild game, such as walleye and moose, are popular. Poutine, a dish that originated in Quebec and is popular in Northern Ontario, can also be found in the region.
In 2021, 52.1% of the population was Christian, with the largest religious denominations being the Roman Catholic Church (with 26.0% of the population) and the United Church of Canada with (4.1%). Other religions included Islam (6.7%), Hinduism (4.1%). 31.6% of Ontarians had no religious affiliation.[59]
Mills, David (1877). Report on the Boundaries of the Province of Ontario. Toronto: Hunter, Rose & Co. p. 347. Archived from the original on November 7, 2011. Retrieved September 14, 2009.
"Profile table, Census Profile, 2021 Census of Population - British Columbia [Province];Ontario [Province];Alberta [Province];Yukon [Territory]". February 9, 2022.
"About Ontario". Ontario.ca. Queen's Printer for Ontario. March 7, 2019. Archived from the original on January 8, 2020. Retrieved January 8, 2020.
^ Canada/United States International Boundary Commission (2006). "St. Lawrence River and Great Lakes" (PDF). Presentation at 2006 IBRU Conference, p. 21. Durham University. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 2, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2014.
The Saint Lawrence Seaway, which extends across most of the southern portion of the province and connects to the Atlantic Ocean, is the primary water transportation route for cargo, particularly iron ore and grain. In the past, the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence River were also a major passenger transportation route, but over the past half century passenger travel has been reduced to ferry services and sightseeing cruises. Ontario's three largest ports are the Port of Hamilton, Port of Thunder Bay and the Port of Windsor. Ontario's only saltwater port is located in the town of Moosonee on James Bay.
"Moosonee UA". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 9, 2014.
8Culture											Toggle Culture subsection																					8.1Songs and slogans																											8.2Professional sports																											8.3Notable residents																											8.4Museums
^ Marianne Mithun (June 7, 2001). The Languages of Native North America. Cambridge University Press. p. 312. ISBN 978-0-521-29875-9. Archived from the original on January 22, 2021. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
From 1634 to 1640, the Huron were devastated by European infectious diseases, such as measles and smallpox, to which they had no immunity.[44] By 1700, the Iroquois had been driven out or left the area that would become Ontario and the Mississaugas of the Ojibwa had settled the north shore of Lake Ontario. The remaining Huron settled north of Quebec.
Brian Gray (April 10, 2004). "GTA Economy Dinged by Every Crash on the 401 – North America's Busiest Freeway". Toronto Sun, transcribed at Urban Planet. Archived from the original on December 27, 2009. Retrieved March 18, 2007. The 'phenomenal' number of vehicles on Hwy. 401 as it cuts through Toronto makes it the busiest freeway in the world...
The northernmost parts of Ontario – primarily north of 50°N – have a subarctic climate (Köppen Dfc) with long, severely cold winters and short, cool to warm summers with dramatic temperature changes possible in all seasons. With no major mountain ranges blocking sinking Arctic air masses, temperatures of −40 °C (−40 °F) are not uncommon; snow remains on the ground for sometimes over half the year. Snow accumulation can be high in some areas.[20] Precipitation is generally less than 70 cm (28 in) and peaks in the summer months in the form of rain or thunderstorms.[20]
"The Quebec Act of 1774". Solon.org. Archived from the original on February 7, 2007. Retrieved January 15, 2007.
^ Ontario, Government of. "Role of the Ministry". Tcu.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on June 18, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
Toronto, the capital of Ontario, is the centre of Canada's financial services and banking industry. Neighbouring cities are home to product distribution, IT centres, and manufacturing industries. Canada's Federal Government is the largest single employer in the National Capital Region, which centres on the border cities of Ontario's Ottawa and Quebec's Gatineau.[83][84]
"Economic indicators, by province and territory (monthly and quarterly) (Ontario)". Statistics Canada. Archived from the original on November 7, 2011. Retrieved July 18, 2011.
"Ontario's Greenbelt". Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing, Government of Ontario. August 27, 2019. Archived from the original on May 22, 2020. Retrieved September 14, 2019.
Ontario is a term thought to be derived from Indigenous origins, either Ontarí:io, a Huron (Wyandot) word meaning "great lake",[16] or possibly skanadario, which means "beautiful water" or "sparkling water" in the Iroquoian languages.[17] Ontario has about 250,000 freshwater lakes.[18] The first mention of the name Ontario was in 1641, when "Ontario" was used to describe the land on the north shore of the easternmost part of the Great Lakes.[19] It was adopted as the official name of the new province at Confederation in 1867.[19]
"Credit agency praises Ontario but holds back on rating boost"
^ "Snowstorm shuts down London, Ont". CBC News. December 8, 2010. Archived from the original on March 8, 2014.
Despite its diverse range of power options, problems related to increasing consumption, lack of energy efficiency and aging nuclear reactors, Ontario has been forced in recent years to purchase power from its neighbours Quebec and Michigan to supplement its power needs during peak consumption periods. Ontario's basic domestic rate in 2010 was 11.17 cents per kWh; by contrast. Quebec's was 6.81.[99] In December 2013, the government projected a 42 percent hike by 2018, and 68 percent by 2033.[98] Industrial rates are projected to rise by 33% by 2018, and 55% in 2033.[98]
^ Rubel, Franz (January 24, 2017). "WORLD MAPS OF KÖPPEN-GEIGER CLIMATE CLASSIFICATION". Vetmeduni Vienna. Archived from the original on December 10, 2021. Retrieved December 9, 2021.
"Total farm area, land tenure and land in crops, by province: Ontario". Census of Agriculture, 1986 to 2006. Statistics Canada. October 31, 2008. Retrieved July 30, 2011.
A Place to Stand, a Place to Grow is a song commissioned by the government of Ontario for its pavilion in Expo 67, and an unofficial anthem of the province.[120] As a part of the Canada 150 celebrations in 2017, the provincial government released an updated rendition.[120] In 2007, the provincial tourism agency commissioned a new song, "There's No Place Like This" is featured in television advertising, performed by Ontario artists including Molly Johnson, Brian Byrne, Keshia Chanté,[121] as well as Tomi Swick and Arkells.
"Laurentide Ice Sheet | ice sheet, North America | Britannica". www.britannica.com. Archived from the original on July 9, 2022. Retrieved July 9, 2022.
"Ontario". 15q.net. February 24, 2007. Archived from the original on April 22, 2009. Retrieved May 6, 2009.
Canada/United States International Boundary Commission (2006). "St. Lawrence River and Great Lakes" (PDF). Presentation at 2006 IBRU Conference, p. 21. Durham University. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 2, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2014.
In the 2021 census, Ontario had a population of 14,223,942 living in 5,491,201 of its 5,929,250 total dwellings, a 5.8 percent change from its 2016 population of 13,448,494. With a land area of 892,411.76 km2 (344,562.11 sq mi), it had a population density of 15.9/km2 (41.3/sq mi) in 2021.[2] The largest population centres in Ontario are Toronto, Ottawa, Hamilton, Kitchener, London and Oshawa, which all have more than 300,000 inhabitants.
As of the 2021 Canadian Census, the ten most spoken languages in the province included English (13,650,230 or 97.28%), French (1,550,545 or 11.05%), Mandarin (467,420 or 3.33%), Hindi (436,125 or 3.11%), Spanish (401,205 or 2.86%), Punjabi (397,865 or 2.84%), Cantonese (352,135 or 2.51%), Arabic (342,860 or 2.44%), Italian (312,800 or 2.23%), and Urdu (295,175 or 2.1%).[62] The question on knowledge of languages allows for multiple responses.
"ARCHIVED – People – Virtual Vault – Library and Archives Canada". Collectionscanada.ca. Archived from the original on March 21, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
Important airports in the province include Toronto Pearson International Airport, which is the busiest airport in Canada,[122] handling nearly 50 million passengers in 2018.[123] Ottawa Macdonald–Cartier International Airport is Ontario's second largest airport. Toronto/Pearson and Ottawa/Macdonald-Cartier form two of the three points in Canada's busiest set of air routes (the third point being Montréal–Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport). In addition to airports in Ottawa, and Toronto, the province also operates three other international airports, the John C. Munro Hamilton International Airport in Hamilton, the Thunder Bay International Airport in Thunder Bay and the London International Airport in London. John C. Munro Hamilton International Airport serves as cargo hub, reliever for Pearson, and sometimes a hub for discount airlines.
^ Mayda, Chris (2013). A Regional Geography of the United States and Canada: Toward a Sustainable Future. Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield. p. 109. ISBN 9780742556904. Archived from the original on August 17, 2021. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
^ Government of Ontario. "Ontario Facts: Overview". Archived from the original on January 29, 2007. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
^ Grant, William Lawson (1911). "Ontario" .In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 20 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp. 113–117: see pages 115 and 116. History. —...
"Canada West – historical region, Canada". Encyclopedia Britannica. Archived from the original on October 25, 2018. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on January 19, 2022. Retrieved July 10, 2022.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ "Profile of the Francophone population in Ontario – 2016". www.ontario.ca. Queen's Printer for Ontario. February 5, 2019. Archived from the original on May 22, 2020. Retrieved April 24, 2020.
Government of Canada, Statistics Canada (August 17, 2022). "Census Profile, 2021 Census of Population Profile table Ontario [Province]". www12.statcan.gc.ca. Retrieved August 17, 2022.
^ Brian Gray (April 10, 2004). "GTA Economy Dinged by Every Crash on the 401 – North America's Busiest Freeway". Toronto Sun, transcribed at Urban Planet. Archived from the original on December 27, 2009. Retrieved March 18, 2007. The 'phenomenal' number of vehicles on Hwy. 401 as it cuts through Toronto makes it the busiest freeway in the world...
Mathieu, Jacques (September 4, 2013). "Nouvelle-France". The Canadian Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on July 10, 2022. Retrieved July 10, 2022.
"| Library | University of Waterloo". Lib.uwaterloo.ca. Archived from the original on May 27, 2009. Retrieved May 6, 2009.
^ Trudel, Marcel (1963). Histoire de la Nouvelle-France : les vaines tentatives 1524–1603. Fides. p. 307.
An economic boom in the 1850s coincided with railway expansion across the province, further increasing the economic strength of Central Canada. With the repeal of the Corn Laws and a reciprocity agreement in place with the United States, various industries such as timber, mining, farming and alcohol distilling benefited tremendously.
Most Ontario cities have regional airports, many of which have scheduled commuter flights from Air Canada Jazz or smaller airlines and charter companies – flights from the mid-size cities such as Thunder Bay, Sault Ste. Marie, Sudbury, North Bay, Timmins, Windsor, London, and Kingston feed directly into larger airports in Toronto and Ottawa. Bearskin Airlines also runs flights along the northerly east–west route, connecting Ottawa, North Bay, Sudbury, Sault Ste. Marie, Kitchener and Thunder Bay directly.
Other languages spoken by residents include Arabic, Bengali, Cantonese, Dutch, German, Greek, Gujarati, Hindi, Hebrew, Italian, Korean, Malayalam, Mandarin, Marathi, Persian, Polish, Portuguese, Punjabi, Russian, Sinhalese, Somali, Spanish, Tagalog, Telugu, Tamil, Tibetan, Ukrainian, Urdu, and Vietnamese.[67]
^ a b "Ontario Unveils Green Energy and Green Economy Act, 2009". Renewableenergyworld.com. Archived from the original on November 13, 2013. Retrieved October 17, 2010.
"New bill could open Greenbelt to development, critics say". CityNews. Rogers Digital Media. December 7, 2018. Archived from the original on May 22, 2020. Retrieved September 14, 2019.
^ "Labour force, employed and unemployed, numbers and rates, by province (Quebec, Ontario, Manitoba)". Statistics Canada. Archived from the original on July 6, 2011. Retrieved July 18, 2011.
Unrest in the colony began to chafe against the aristocratic Family Compact who governed while benefiting economically from the region's resources, and who did not allow elected bodies power. This resentment spurred republican ideals and sowed the seeds for early Canadian nationalism. Accordingly, rebellion in favour of responsible government rose in both regions; Louis-Joseph Papineau led the Lower Canada Rebellion and William Lyon Mackenzie, first Toronto mayor,[49] led the Upper Canada Rebellion. In Upper Canada, the rebellion was quickly a failure. William Lyon Mackenzie escaped to the United States, where he declared the Republic of Canada on Navy Island on the Niagara River.[50]
Although the Legislative Assembly Act (R.S.O. 1990) refers to "members of the assembly", the legislators are now commonly called MPPs (Members of the Provincial Parliament) in English and députés de l'Assemblée législative in French, but they have also been called MLAs (Members of the Legislative Assembly); both are acceptable but the latter is uncommon. The title of Prime Minister of Ontario, correct in French (le Premier ministre), is permissible in English but now generally avoided in favour of the title "Premier" to avoid confusion with the Prime Minister of Canada.
Baldwin, David; Desloges, Joseph; Band, Lawrence. "Physical Geography of Ontario" (PDF). UBC Press. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 17, 2007. Retrieved March 25, 2013.
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
^ "Sub-national HDI – Subnational HDI – Global Data Lab". Archived from the original on September 25, 2021. Retrieved September 8, 2021.
^ "Total farm area, land tenure and land in crops, by province: Ontario". Census of Agriculture, 1986 to 2006. Statistics Canada. October 31, 2008. Retrieved July 30, 2011.
^ Frontline Forestry Research Applications – Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) On the Use of Herbicides in Canadian Forestry – Technical Note #112 (PDF). Natural Resources Canada – Canadian Forestry Service. 2011. Archived (PDF) from the original on January 21, 2021. Retrieved July 4, 2019.
"Snowstorm shuts down London, Ont". CBC News. December 8, 2010. Archived from the original on March 8, 2014.
^ Ministry of Transportation (Ontario) (August 6, 2002). "Ontario government investing $401 million to upgrade Highway 401". Archived from the original on September 14, 2007. Retrieved December 20, 2006.
^ "ARCHIVED – People – Virtual Vault – Library and Archives Canada". Collectionscanada.ca. Archived from the original on March 21, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
^ "The Constitutional Act of 1791". Archived from the original on August 29, 2007. Retrieved January 15, 2007.
During the French and Indian War, the North American theater of the Seven Years' War of 1754 to 1763, the British defeated the armies of New France and its Indigenous allies. In the Treaty of Paris 1763 France ceded most of its possessions in North America to Britain. Using the Quebec Act, Britain re-organised the territory into theProvince of Quebec.[45]
Ontario has grown, from its roots in Upper Canada, into a modern jurisdiction. The old titles of the chief law officers, the Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General, remain in use. They both are responsible to the Legislature. The Attorney-General drafts the laws and is responsible for criminal prosecutions and the administration of justice, while the Solicitor-General is responsible for law enforcement and the police services of the province.The Municipal Act, 2001 (Ontario)[102] is the main statute governing the creation, administration and government of municipalities in the Canadian province of Ontario, other than the City of Toronto. After being passed in 2001, it came into force on January 1, 2003, replacing the previous Municipal Act.[103] Effective January 1, 2007, the Municipal Act, 2001 (the Act) was significantly amended by the Municipal Statute Law Amendment Act, 2006 (Bill 130).[104][105]
Tourism Ontario Archived April 21, 2021, at the Wayback Machine
Once constituted as a province, Ontario proceeded to assert its economic and legislative power. In 1872, the lawyer Oliver Mowat became Premier of Ontario and remained as premier until 1896. He fought for provincial rights, weakening the power of the federal government in provincial matters, usually through well-argued appeals to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. His battles with the federal government greatly decentralized Canada, giving the provinces far more power than John A. Macdonald had intended. He consolidated and expanded Ontario's educational and provincial institutions, created districts in Northern Ontario, and fought to ensure that those parts of Northwestern Ontario not historically part of Upper Canada (the vast areas north and west of the Lake Superior-Hudson Bay watershed, known as the District of Keewatin) would become part of Ontario, a victory embodied in the Canada (Ontario Boundary) Act, 1889. He also presided over the emergence of the province into the economic powerhouse of Canada. Mowat was the creator of what is often called Empire Ontario.
^ "Municipal Act, 1990 R.S.O. 1990, c. M.45". July 24, 2014. Archived from the original on March 7, 2014. Retrieved April 23, 2019.
The next climatic region is Central and Eastern Ontario, which has a moderate humid continental climate (Köppen Dfb). This region has warm and sometimes hot summers with colder, longer winters, ample snowfall (even in regions not directly in the snowbelts) and annual precipitation similar to the rest of Southern Ontario.[21]
^ "Canada West – historical region, Canada". Encyclopedia Britannica. Archived from the original on October 25, 2018. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
"Labour force characteristics, unadjusted, by census metropolitan area (3 month moving average) – (Ottawa-Gatineau (Ont.-Que.), Ottawa (Ont.)-Gatineau (Que.), Ontario part, Ottawa (Ont.)-Gatineau (Que.), Quebec part)", 2010/2011 Archived November 7, 2011, at the Wayback Machine, Statistics Canada
^ "Ontario is the largest province in the country by population". Statistics Canada. Archived from the original on June 10, 2008. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
"Accueil – Consultations prébudgétaires 2016–2017" (PDF). Consultations prébudgétaires 2016–2017 – Ministère des Finances du Québec. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 29, 2011.
In Ontario, Catholics are represented by the Assembly of Catholic Bishops of Ontario[60] and the Anglican Protestants by the Ecclesiastical Province of Ontario.[61] The Ecclesiastical Province covers most of the geographical province of Ontario[61]
^ "Employment by major industry groups, seasonally adjusted, by province (monthly) – (Ontario)", June 2011, Statistics Canada
In July 1912, the Conservative government of James Whitney issued Regulation 17 which severely limited the availability of French-language schooling to the province's French-speaking minority. French Canadians reacted with outrage, journalist Henri Bourassa denouncing the "Prussians of Ontario". The regulation was eventually repealed in 1927.
"Total aircraft movements by class of operation – NAV CANADA towers"
Statistics Canada treats Norfolk County and Haldimand County as one single census division; the County of Brant and City of Brantford are also treated as one single census division. There would otherwise be 51 census divisions instead of the 49 official ones used by Statistics Canada.
"GTA Economy Dinged by Every Crash on the 401 – North America's Busiest Freeway"
^ a b c d e Baldwin, David; Desloges, Joseph; Band, Lawrence. "Physical Geography of Ontario" (PDF). UBC Press. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 17, 2007. Retrieved March 25, 2013.
^ "Fergus plant closing shows Ontario's decline". Toronto Star. November 24, 2013. Archived from the original on October 10, 2017.
"Land and freshwater area, by province and territory". Statistics Canada. February 1, 2005. Archived from the original on October 19, 2012. Retrieved August 5, 2012.
^ "Ontario". Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. Archived from the original on October 24, 2006. Retrieved November 29, 2006.
The smallest climatic region is located at the most northeastern part of the Niagara Peninsula, which has a temperate humid climate (Köppen Cfa), due to moderating effects by Lake Ontario, the Niagara River and battling air masses from the Gulf of Mexico during the winter months.[24] It is one of the most temperate regions in the entire province.
Virtual Vault Archived October 1, 2007, at the Wayback Machine, an online exhibition of Canadian historical art at Library and Archives Canada.
Wanek-Libman, Mischa (September 16, 2020). "Ottawa shows it's ready for rail with Confederation Line opening". Mass Transit. Archived from the original on April 11, 2021. Retrieved September 11, 2020.
The great majority of Ontario's population and arable land is in Southern Ontario, and while agriculture remains a significant industry, the region's economy depends highly on manufacturing. In contrast, Northern Ontario is sparsely populated with cold winters and heavy forestation,[15] with mining and forestry making up the region's major industries.
Despite the absence of any mountainous terrain in the province, there are large areas of uplands, particularly within the Canadian Shield which traverses the province from northwest to southeast and also above the Niagara Escarpment which crosses the south. The highest point is Ishpatina Ridge at 693 metres (2,274 ft) above sea level in Temagami, Northeastern Ontario. In the south, elevations of over 500 m (1,640 ft) are surpassed near Collingwood, above the Blue Mountains in the Dundalk Highlands and in hilltops near the Madawaska River in Renfrew County.
^ "Le Pays-d'en-Haut (Canada)". Archived from the original on June 21, 2021. Retrieved July 16, 2022.
Frontline Forestry Research Applications – Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) On the Use of Herbicides in Canadian Forestry – Technical Note #112
Ontario surpassed Michigan in car production, assembling more than 2,696,000 vehicles in 2004. Ontario has Chrysler plants in Windsor and Bramalea, two GM plants in Oshawa and one in Ingersoll, a Honda assembly plant in Alliston, Ford plants in Oakville and St. Thomas and Toyota assembly plants in Cambridge and Woodstock. However, as a result of steeply declining sales, in 2005, General Motors announced massive layoffs at production facilities across North America, including two large GM plants in Oshawa and a drive train facility in St. Catharines, that resulted in 8,000 job losses in Ontario alone. In 2006, Ford Motor Company announced between 25,000 and 30,000 layoffs phased until 2012; Ontario was spared the worst, but job losses were announced for the St Thomas facility and the Windsor Casting plant. However, these losses will be offset by Ford's recent announcement of a hybrid vehicle facility slated to begin production in 2007 at its Oakville plant and GM's re-introduction of the Camaro which will be produced in Oshawa. On December 4, 2008, Toyota announced the grand opening of the RAV4 plant in Woodstock,[77] and Honda also plans to add an engine plant at its facility in Alliston. Despite these new plants coming online, Ontario has not yet fully recovered following massive layoffs caused by the global recession; its unemployment rate was 7.3% in May 2013,[78] compared to 8.7 percent in January 2010[79] and approximately 6% in 2007. In September 2013, the Ontario government committed CAD$70.9 million to the Ford plant in Oakville, while the federal government committed CAD$71.1mn, to secure 2,800 jobs.[80] The province has lost 300,000 manufacturing jobs in the decade from 2003, and the Bank of Canada noted that "while the energy and mining industries have benefitted from these movements, the pressure on the manufacturing sector has intensified, since many firms in this sector were already dealing with growing competition from low-cost economies such as China."[81][82]
^ "S&P downgrades Ontario's credit outlook". Toronto Star. April 25, 2012. Archived from the original on October 10, 2017.
^ "Union Station: History, Facts, & Map". GO Transit. Archived from the original on September 20, 2020. Retrieved September 11, 2020.
The population of Canada west of the St. Lawrence-Ottawa River confluence substantially increased during this period, a fact recognized by the Constitutional Act of 1791, which split Quebec into the Canadas: Upper Canada southwest of the St. Lawrence-Ottawa River confluence, and Lower Canada east of it.
Hong, Jackie (September 16, 2016). "Ontario's catchy 'A place to stand' theme grows up". The Toronto Star. Torstar Corporation. Archived from the original on October 11, 2020. Retrieved September 29, 2020.
Regional commuter rail is limited to the provincially owned GO Transit, and serves a train-bus network spanning the Golden Horseshoe region, with Union Station in Toronto serving as the transport hub.[124][125]
The Carolinian forest zone covers most of the southwestern region of the province. The temperate and fertile Great Lakes-Saint Lawrence Valley in the south is part of the Eastern Great Lakes lowland forests ecoregion where the forest has now been largely replaced by agriculture, industrial and urban development. A well-known geographic feature is Niagara Falls, part of the Niagara Escarpment. The Saint Lawrence Seaway allows navigation to and from the Atlantic Ocean as far inland as Thunder Bay in Northwestern Ontario. Northern Ontario covers approximately 87% of the province's surface area; conversely Southern Ontario contains 94% of the population.
"Windsor A, Ontario". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 12, 2014.
"Ottawa shows it's ready for rail with Confederation Line opening"
The legislative buildings at Queen's Park are the seat of government. Following the Westminster system, the leader of the party holding the most seats in the assembly is known as the "Premier and President of the Council" (Executive Council Act R.S.O. 1990). The Premier chooses the cabinet or Executive Council whose members are deemed ministers of the Crown.
"AMO – How Municipal Government Works". www.amo.on.ca. Archived from the original on April 23, 2019. Retrieved May 14, 2019.
Winfield, Mark S. Blue-Green Province: The Environment and the Political Economy of Ontario (University of British Columbia Press; 2012) 296 pages; environmental policies since 1945.
^ "Population and dwelling counts, for Canada, provinces and territories, census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations, 2006 and 2001 censuses – 100% data". Statistics Canada. November 5, 2008. Archived from the original on May 4, 2009. Retrieved April 1, 2009.
^ "Toyota's opening a new chapter in Woodstock's industrial history". Woodstocksentinelreview.com. Archived from the original on June 11, 2012. Retrieved October 17, 2010.
"Total farm area, land tenure and land in crops, by province: Ontario"
The approvals process for transmission projects would also be streamlined and (for the first time in Ontario) the bill would enact standards for renewable energy projects. Homeowners would have access to incentives to develop small-scale renewables such as low- or no-interest loans to finance the capital cost of renewable energy generating facilities like solar panels.[100]
^ "Ontario". 15q.net. February 24, 2007. Archived from the original on April 22, 2009. Retrieved May 6, 2009.
Ontario has numerous political parties which run for election. The four main parties are the centre-right Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario, the social democratic Ontario New Democratic Party (NDP), the centre to centre-left Ontario Liberal Party, and Green Party of Ontario. The Progressive Conservatives, Liberals and New Democrats have each governed the province, while the Greens elected their first member to the Legislative Assembly in 2018.
^ Charpentier et al. 1985, p. 50. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCharpentierDurocherLavilleLinteau1985 (help)
"Census Profile, 2021 Census of Population Profile table Ontario [Province]"
"Labour force, employed and unemployed, numbers and rates, by province (Quebec, Ontario, Manitoba)"
^ "Ottawa's Greenbelt Master Plan" (PDF). Faculty of Environmental Design The University of Calgary. September 15, 2019. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 23, 2020. Retrieved September 15, 2019.
^ a b c d "Census Profile, 2016 Census – Ontario – Language Profile". statcan.gc.ca. Stat Canada. August 9, 2019. Archived from the original on May 22, 2020. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
"Toyota's opening a new chapter in Woodstock's industrial history". Woodstocksentinelreview.com. Archived from the original on June 11, 2012. Retrieved October 17, 2010.
"Early Districts and Counties 1788–1899". Archives of Ontario. September 5, 2006. Archived from the original on January 30, 2010. Retrieved November 29, 2006.
"Union Station: History, Facts, & Map". GO Transit. Archived from the original on September 20, 2020. Retrieved September 11, 2020.
"The Canada Country Study: Climate Impacts and Adaptation: Ontario Region Executive Summary"
In 1849, the districts of southern Ontario were abolished by the Province of Canada, and county governments took over certain municipal responsibilities. The Province of Canada also began creating districts in sparsely populated Northern Ontario with the establishment of Algoma District and Nipissing District in 1858.
^ a b "Natural Processes in the Great Lakes". US Environmental Protection Agency. Archived from the original on February 2, 2013. Retrieved March 25, 2013.
Point Pelee is a peninsula of Lake Erie in southwestern Ontario (near Windsor and Detroit, Michigan) that is the southernmost extent of Canada's mainland. Pelee Island and Middle Island in Lake Erie extend slightly farther. All are south of 42°N – slightly farther south than the northern border of California.
^ "About Ontario". Queen's Printer for Ontario. February 28, 2016. Archived from the original on March 5, 2016.
"Fergus plant closing shows Ontario's decline". Toronto Star. November 24, 2013. Archived from the original on October 10, 2017.
^ "Private Universities". Tcu.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on July 3, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
Butterfield, David W.; Deal, Kenneth R.; Kubursi, Atif A. (1998). "Measuring the Returns to Tourism Advertising". Journal of Travel Research. 37 (1): 12–20. doi:10.1177/004728759803700102. S2CID 154905439.
Although both rebellions were put down in short order, the British government sent Lord Durham to investigate the causes. He recommended self-government be granted and Lower and Upper Canada be re-joined in an attempt to assimilate the French Canadians. Accordingly, the two colonies were merged into the Province of Canada by the Act of Union 1840, with the capital at Kingston, and Upper Canada becoming known as Canada West.[51] Parliamentary self-government was granted in 1848. There were heavy waves of immigration in the 1840s, and the population of Canada West more than doubled by 1851 over the previous decade. As a result, for the first time, the English-speaking population of Canada West surpassed the French-speaking population of Canada East, tilting the representative balance of power.
^ a b Hong, Jackie (September 16, 2016). "Ontario's catchy 'A place to stand' theme grows up". The Toronto Star. Torstar Corporation. Archived from the original on October 11, 2020. Retrieved September 29, 2020.
^ "Laurentide Ice Sheet | ice sheet, North America | Britannica". www.britannica.com. Archived from the original on July 9, 2022. Retrieved July 9, 2022.
^ "There's more to discover in Ontario". Ontariotravel.net. Archived from the original on June 10, 2008. Retrieved October 17, 2010.[better source needed]
^ "More than 1 million boardings on ION trains since launch: Report". CBC News. October 18, 2019. Archived from the original on September 29, 2020. Retrieved September 11, 2020.
^ Government of Canada, Statistics Canada (August 17, 2022). "Census Profile, 2021 Census of Population Profile table Ontario [Province]". www12.statcan.gc.ca. Retrieved August 17, 2022.
The borders of Ontario, its new name in 1867, were provisionally expanded north and west. When the Province of Canada was formed, its borders were not entirely clear, and Ontario claimed eventually to reach all the way to the Rocky Mountains and Arctic Ocean. With Canada's acquisition of Rupert's Land, Ontario was interested in clearly defining its borders, especially since some of the new areas in which it was interested were rapidly growing. After the federal government asked Ontario to pay for construction in the new disputed area, the province asked for an elaboration on its limits, and its boundary was moved north to the 51st parallel north.[52]
"Ottawa Macdonald Cartier Int'l A, Ontario". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on May 9, 2014. Retrieved May 8, 2014.
^ Wanek-Libman, Mischa (September 16, 2020). "Ottawa shows it's ready for rail with Confederation Line opening". Mass Transit. Archived from the original on April 11, 2021. Retrieved September 11, 2020.
^ "Economic indicators, by province and territory (monthly and quarterly) (Ontario)". Statistics Canada. Archived from the original on November 7, 2011. Retrieved July 18, 2011.
^ "Municipal Act, 2001, S.O. 2001, c. 25". Archived from the original on March 30, 2015. Retrieved April 23, 2019.
^ "Feds, Ontario invest $142M in Oakville Ford plant". Torontosun.com. Archived from the original on July 13, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
^ Atkins, Eric; Grant, Tavia (December 10, 2013). "Kellogg's Ontario plant closing a casualty of changing tastes". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on February 20, 2017.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Ontario". Geographical Names Data Base. Natural Resources Canada.
In 1782–1784, 5,000 United Empire Loyalists entered what is now Ontario following the American Revolution.[46] The Kingdom of Great Britain granted them 200 acres (81 ha) land and other items with which to rebuild their lives.[43] The British also set up reserves in Ontario for the Mohawks who had fought for the British and had lost their land in New York state. Other Iroquois, also displaced from New York were resettled in 1784 at the Six Nations reserve at the west end of Lake Ontario. The Mississaugas, displaced by European settlements, would later move to Six Nations also.
^ The following figure is taken from the province's "Inclusive Definition of Francophones," (IDF) which includes those whose mother tongue is French, and those whose mother tongue is not French, but have proficiency in the language, and use French as the primary language at home.
Grant, William Lawson (1911). "Ontario" .In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 20 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp. 113–117: see pages 115 and 116. History. —...
A Regional Geography of the United States and Canada: Toward a Sustainable Future
"Find a School". Tcu.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on June 18, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
"More than 1 million boardings on ION trains since launch: Report"
Influenced by events in the United States, the government of William Hearst introduced prohibition of alcoholic drinks in 1916 with the passing of the Ontario Temperance Act. However, residents could distil and retain their own personal supply, and liquor producers could continue distillation and export for sale, allowing this already sizeable industry to strengthen further. Ontario became a hotbed for the illegal smuggling of liquor and the biggest supplier into the United States, which was under complete prohibition. Prohibition in Ontario came to an end in 1927 with the establishment of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario under the government of Howard Ferguson. The sale and consumption of liquor, wine, and beer are still controlled by some of the most extreme laws in North America to ensure strict community standards and revenue generation from the alcohol retail monopoly are upheld.
Statistics Canada's measure of a "metro area", the Census Metropolitan Area (CMA), roughly bundles together population figures from the core municipality with those from "commuter" municipalities.[106]
Ontario's official language is English, although there exists a number of French-speaking communities across Ontario.[57] French-language services are made available for communities with a sizeable French-speaking population; a service that is ensured under the French Language Services Act of 1989.
Meanwhile, Ontario's numerous waterways aided travel and transportation into the interior and supplied water power for development. As the population increased, so did the industries and transportation networks, which in turn led to further development. By the end of the century, Ontario vied with Quebec as the nation's leader in terms of growth in population, industry, arts and communications.[48]
"Kenora Airport". Canadian Climate Normal's 1981–2010. Environment Canada. 2011. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 9, 2014.
A political stalemate between the French- and English-speaking legislators, as well as fear of aggression from the United States during and immediately after the American Civil War, led the political elite to hold a series of conferences in the 1860s to effect a broader federal union of all British North American colonies. The British North America Act took effect on July 1, 1867, establishing the Dominion of Canada, initially with four provinces: Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Quebec and Ontario. The Province of Canada was divided into Ontario and Quebec so that each linguistic group would have its own province. Both Quebec and Ontario were required by section 93 of the British North America Act to safeguard existing educational rights and privileges of the Protestant and Catholic minorities. Thus, separate Catholic schools and school boards were permitted in Ontario. However, neither province had a constitutional requirement to protect its French- or English-speaking minority. Toronto was formally established as Ontario's provincial capital.
"Niagara Falls NPCSH". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 12, 2014.
"Municipal Act, 1990 R.S.O. 1990, c. M.45". July 24, 2014. Archived from the original on March 7, 2014. Retrieved April 23, 2019.
^ "The Quebec Act of 1774". Solon.org. Archived from the original on February 7, 2007. Retrieved January 15, 2007.
Frontline Forestry Research Applications – Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) On the Use of Herbicides in Canadian Forestry – Technical Note #112 (PDF). Natural Resources Canada – Canadian Forestry Service. 2011. Archived (PDF) from the original on January 21, 2021. Retrieved July 4, 2019.
"1981 to 2010 Canadian Climate Normals". Environment Canada. February 13, 2014. Climate ID: 6158350. Archived from the original on April 3, 2016. Retrieved February 24, 2014.
Vanderveen, Cale (April 2, 2015). "Metrolinx Preparing For Massive GO Transit Service Expansion". Urban Toronto. Archived from the original on February 27, 2021. Retrieved September 11, 2020.
"Ontario is the largest province in the country by population"
"Laurentide Ice Sheet | ice sheet, North America | Britannica"
Government of Ontario. "Ontario Facts: Overview". Archived from the original on January 29, 2007. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
^ David Crane (February 20, 2012). "Ontario has to learn to live with high dollar". thestar.com. Archived from the original on October 10, 2017.
^ "Ontario's Greenbelt". Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing, Government of Ontario. August 27, 2019. Archived from the original on May 22, 2020. Retrieved September 14, 2019.
Morrow, Adrian; McCarthy, Shawn (December 2, 2013). "Ontario projects steady rise in electricity costs for next 20 years". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on May 4, 2017.
"Municipal Act, 2001, S.O. 2001, c. 25". Archived from the original on March 30, 2015. Retrieved April 23, 2019.
^ "Universities". Tcu.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on June 2, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
Ontario is bordered by the province of Manitoba to the west, Hudson Bay and James Bay to the north, and Quebec to the east and northeast, and to the south by the U.S. states of (from west to east) Minnesota, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York. Almost all of Ontario's 2,700 km (1,678 mi) border with the United States follows inland waterways: from the westerly Lake of the Woods, eastward along the major rivers and lakes of the Great Lakes/Saint Lawrence River drainage system. There is only about 1 km (0.6 mi) of actual land border, made up of portages including Height of Land Portage on the Minnesota border.[14]
"ECanada’s largest tech park, Kanata North, about to roar", Feb 2017 Archived May 17, 2019, at the Wayback Machine, The Wedge
Atkins, Eric; Grant, Tavia (December 10, 2013). "Kellogg's Ontario plant closing a casualty of changing tastes". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on February 20, 2017.
Higher education in Ontario includes post-secondary education and skills training regulated by the Ministry of Training, Colleges, and Universities and provided by universities, colleges of applied arts and technology, and private career colleges.[108] The minister is Merrilee Fullerton. The ministry administers laws covering 22 public universities,[109] 24 public colleges (21 Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology (CAATs) and three Institutes of Technology and Advanced Learning (ITALs)),[110] 17 privately funded religious universities,[111] and over 500 private career colleges.[112] The Canadian constitution provides each province with the responsibility for higher education and there is no corresponding national federal ministry of higher education.[113] Within Canadian federalism the division of responsibilities and taxing powers between the Ontario and Canadian governments creates the need for co-operation to fund and deliver higher education to students. Each higher education system aims to improve participation, access, and mobility for students. There are two central organizations that assist with the process of applying to Ontario universities and colleges: the Ontario Universities' Application Centre and Ontario College Application Service. While application services are centralized, admission and selection processes vary and are the purview of each institution. Admission to many Ontario postsecondary institutions can be highly competitive. Upon admission, students may get involved with regional student representation with the Canadian Federation of Students, the Canadian Alliance of Student Associations, the Ontario Undergraduate Student Alliance, or through the College Student Alliance in Ontario.
"Labour force characteristics, unadjusted, by census metropolitan area (3 month moving average) – (Ottawa-Gatineau (Ont.-Que.), Ottawa (Ont.)-Gatineau (Que.), Ontario part, Ottawa (Ont.)-Gatineau (Que.), Quebec part)", 2010/2011
"Office of the French Language Services Commissioner of Ontario – Law". csfontario.ca. Archived from the original on October 26, 2018. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
In Canada, education falls under provincial jurisdiction. Publicly funded elementary and secondary schools are administered by the Ontario Ministry of Education, while colleges and universities are administered by the Ontario Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities. The Minister of Education is Stephen Lecce, the Minister of Colleges and Universities is Ross Romano, and the Minister of Labour, Training and Skills Development Monte McNaughton.
^ News Review Media E.D.D. (October 29, 2019). "Hurontario Light Rail Transit construction on track to begin next year". Peel Region Review. Archived from the original on September 24, 2020. Retrieved September 11, 2020.
^ "William Lyon Mackenzie". The Canadian Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on January 5, 2021. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
Ontario, Government of. "Role of the Ministry". Tcu.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on June 18, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
"Law Document English View". Ontario.ca. July 24, 2014. Archived from the original on November 14, 2021. Retrieved May 14, 2019.
Via Rail operates the inter-regional passenger train service on the Quebec City–Windsor Corridor, along with The Canadian, a transcontinental rail service from Southern Ontario to Vancouver, and the Sudbury–White River train. Additionally, Amtrak rail connects Ontario with key New York cities including Buffalo, Albany, and New York City. Ontario Northland provides rail service to destinations as far north as Moosonee near James Bay, connecting them with the south.
^ "Accueil – Consultations prébudgétaires 2016–2017" (PDF). Consultations prébudgétaires 2016–2017 – Ministère des Finances du Québec. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 29, 2011.
"Gross domestic product, expenditure-based, by province and territory (2015)". Statistics Canada. November 9, 2016. Archived from the original on September 19, 2012. Retrieved January 26, 2017.
Marianne Mithun (June 7, 2001). The Languages of Native North America. Cambridge University Press. p. 312. ISBN 978-0-521-29875-9. Archived from the original on January 22, 2021. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
"Heinz closes Leamington plant, 740 people out of work". cbc.ca. November 15, 2013. Archived from the original on November 24, 2013.
After the War of 1812, relative stability allowed for increasing numbers of immigrants to arrive from Europe rather than from the United States. As was the case in the previous decades, this immigration shift was encouraged by the colonial leaders. Despite affordable and often free land, many arriving newcomers, mostly from Britain and Ireland, found frontier life with the harsh climate difficult, and some of those with the means eventually returned home or went south. However, population growth far exceeded emigration in the following decades. It was a mostly agrarian-based society, but canal projects and a new network of plank roads spurred greater trade within the colony and with the United States, thereby improving previously damaged relations over time.
^ "New bill could open Greenbelt to development, critics say". CityNews. Rogers Digital Media. December 7, 2018. Archived from the original on May 22, 2020. Retrieved September 14, 2019.
"Wynne offers $200K to help Leamington in wake of Heinz closure". Toronto. November 22, 2013. Archived from the original on November 25, 2013.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Ontario". Geographical Names Data Base. Natural Resources Canada.
^ "Étienne Brûlé". Britannica.com. Archived from the original on December 7, 2008. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
^ "Population estimates, quarterly". Statistics Canada. June 14, 2018. Archived from the original on June 19, 2016. Retrieved April 12, 2020.
"The Contact Period". ontarioarchaeology.com. Archived from the original on October 3, 2009. Retrieved September 26, 2009.
^ "Profile table, Census Profile, 2021 Census of Population - British Columbia [Province];Ontario [Province];Alberta [Province];Yukon [Territory]". February 9, 2022.
Once the dominant industry, agriculture now uses a small percentage of the workforce. However, much of the land in southern Ontario is given over to agriculture. As the following table shows, while the number of individual farms has steadily decreased and their overall size has shrunk at a lower rate, greater mechanization has supported increased supply to satisfy the ever-increasing demands of a growing population base; this has also meant a gradual increase in the total amount of land used for growing crops.
^ "Renewable energy facts". www.nrcan.gc.ca. Canada Natural Resources. October 6, 2017. Archived from the original on October 22, 2018. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
Charpentier et al. 1985, p. 50. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCharpentierDurocherLavilleLinteau1985 (help)
The majority of Ontarians are of English or other European descent including large Scottish, Irish and Italian communities. Slightly less than 5 per cent of the population of Ontario is Franco-Ontarian, that is those whose native tongue is French, although those with French ancestry account for 11 per cent of the population. Compared to natural increase or interprovincial migration, immigration is a huge population growth force in Ontario, as it has been over the last two centuries. More recent sources of immigrants with large or growing communities in Ontario include East Asians, South Asians, Caribbeans, Latin Americans, Europeans, and Africans. Most populations have settled in the larger urban centres.
^ "Credit agency praises Ontario but holds back on rating boost". metronews.ca. January 14, 2013. Archived from the original on December 3, 2013. Retrieved November 25, 2013.
By 1798, there were eight districts: Eastern, Home, Johnstown, London, Midland, Newcastle, Niagara, and Western. By 1826, there were eleven districts: Bathurst, Eastern, Gore, Home, Johnstown, London, Midland, Newcastle, Niagara, Ottawa, and Western. By 1838, there were twenty districts: Bathurst, Brock, Colbourne, Dalhousie, Eastern, Gore, Home, Huron, Johnstown, London, Midland, Newcastle, Niagara, Ottawa, Prince Edward, Simcoe, Talbot, Victoria, Wellington, and Western.
^ "Find a School". Tcu.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on June 18, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
^ "Office of the French Language Services Commissioner of Ontario – Law". csfontario.ca. Archived from the original on October 26, 2018. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
Administrative divisions differ primarily in the services that they provide to their residents, with the differing structures of these administrative regions resulting in disparities among Ontario's different regions. The administrative regions of Ontario are roughly coterminous with the census divisions used by Statistics Canada, although some exceptions do exist.[note 2]
^ Ontario is located in the geographic eastern half of Canada, but it has historically and politically been considered to be part of Central Canada.
"Ottawa's Greenbelt Master Plan" (PDF). Faculty of Environmental Design The University of Calgary. September 15, 2019. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 23, 2020. Retrieved September 15, 2019.
The province has professional sports teams in baseball, basketball, Canadian football, ice hockey, lacrosse, rugby league, rugby union and soccer.
"Thunder Bay A" (CSV). Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. Retrieved September 29, 2013.
Ontario is located in the geographic eastern half of Canada, but it has historically and politically been considered to be part of Central Canada.
400-series highways make up the primary vehicular network in the south of province, and they connect at a number of points to border crossings to the United States, and Quebec, the busiest being the Detroit–Windsor Tunnel and Ambassador Bridge and the Blue Water Bridge (via Highway 402). Some of the primary highways along the southern route are Highway 401, Highway 417, and Highway 400,[130][131] Highway 401 being the busiest highway in North America. Other provincial highways and regional roads inter-connect the remainder of the province.
"Employment by major industry groups, seasonally adjusted, by province (monthly) – (Ontario)", June 2011
^ a b "Population and dwelling counts: Canada, provinces and territories". Statistics Canada. February 9, 2022. Archived from the original on February 9, 2022. Retrieved February 9, 2022.
Southern Ontario, which is further sub-divided into four sub-regions: Central Ontario (although not actually the province's geographic centre), Eastern Ontario, Golden Horseshoe and Southwestern Ontario (parts of which were formerly referred to as Western Ontario).
"Natural Processes in the Great Lakes". US Environmental Protection Agency. Archived from the original on February 2, 2013. Retrieved March 25, 2013.
Severe thunderstorms peak in summer. Windsor, in Southern (Southwestern) Ontario, has the most lightning strikes per year in Canada, averaging 33 days of thunderstorm activity per year.[25] In a typical year, Ontario averages 11 confirmed tornado touchdowns. However, over the last 4 years,[when?] it has had upwards of 20 tornado touchdowns per year, with the highest frequency in the Windsor-Essex – Chatham Kent area, though few are very destructive (the majority between F0 to F2 on the Fujita scale). Ontario had a record 29 tornadoes in both 2006 and 2009. Tropical depression remnants occasionally bring heavy rains and winds in the south, but are rarely deadly. A notable exception was Hurricane Hazel which struck Southern Ontario centred on Toronto, in October 1954.
"Wynne offers $200K to help Leamington in wake of Heinz closure"
Ontario's climate varies by season and location.[20] Three air sources affect it: cold, dry, arctic air from the north (dominant factor during the winter months, and for a longer part of the year in far northern Ontario); Pacific polar air crossing in from the western Canadian Prairies/US Northern Plains; and warm, moist air from the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean.[21] The effects of these major air masses on temperature and precipitation depend mainly on latitude, proximity to major bodies of water and to a small extent, terrain relief.[21] In general, most of Ontario's climate is classified as humid continental.[21]
^ Ontario. Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary (11th ed.). New York: New YorkMerriam-Webster, Inc. 2003. ISBN 978-0-87779-809-5.
Neill, R. (2005). Atlantica: partial recovery and partial decline: the context of Maritime emigration, 1870–1970. in Atlantic Canada Economics Association Conference 2005 Working Papers Series (Vol. 2005). Retrieved from http://economics.acadiau.ca/id-2005.html Archived October 19, 2021, at the Wayback Machine
"The quantum computing revolution: BlackBerry billionaire Mike Lazaridis is betting on tech that hasn't been invented … yet"
"Population and dwelling counts, for Canada, provinces and territories, and census subdivisions (municipalities), 2006 and 2001 censuses – 100% data"
Beckett, Harry (2001). Ontario. Weigl Educational Publishers Limited. ISBN 978-1-894705-04-2. Archived from the original on June 13, 2021. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
"Toronto Pearson (Enplaned + Deplaned) Passengers" (PDF). GTAA. February 8, 2016. Archived from the original (PDF) on February 16, 2016. Retrieved March 5, 2016.
"More than 1 million boardings on ION trains since launch: Report". CBC News. October 18, 2019. Archived from the original on September 29, 2020. Retrieved September 11, 2020.
"Population and dwelling counts: Canada, provinces and territories". Statistics Canada. February 9, 2022. Archived from the original on February 9, 2022. Retrieved February 9, 2022.
^ "Ontario Population Projections, 2018–2046". Government of Ontario Ministry of Finance. Archived from the original on March 28, 2020. Retrieved April 12, 2020.
"Ontario is rich in hydroelectricity, especially areas near the Niagara River". Ontario Facts. Archived from the original on February 18, 2007. Retrieved February 2, 2007.
Freight rail is dominated by the founding cross-country Canadian National Railway and CP Rail companies, which during the 1990s sold many short rail lines from their vast network to private companies operating mostly in the south.
^ Canada, Government of Canada, Statistics (October 24, 2012). "2011 Census of Canada: Topic-based tabulations". 12.ststcan.gc.ca. Archived from the original on July 4, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
^ "Official Ontario Road Maps Produced 1971–2006". Ontarioroadmaps.ca. Archived from the original on August 8, 2007. Retrieved October 17, 2010.
Ontario's rivers make it rich in hydroelectric energy.[96] In 2009, Ontario Power Generation generated 70 percent of the province's electricity, of which 51 percent is nuclear, 39% is hydroelectric and 10% is fossil-fuel derived.[97] By 2025, nuclear power is projected to supply 42%, while fossil-fuel-derived generation is projected to decrease slightly over the next 20 years.[98] Much of the newer power generation coming online in the last few years is natural gas or combined-cycle natural gas plants. OPG is not, however, responsible for the transmission of power, which is under the control of Hydro One.
Paleo-Indians were the first people to settle on the lands of Ontario, arriving there after the Laurentide Ice Sheet melted roughly 11,000 years ago.[36] From them, many ethnocultural groups emerged and came to exist on the lands of Ontario: the Algonquins, Mississaugas, Ojibway, Cree, Odawa, Pottowatomi, and Iroquois.[37]
White, Randall (1985). Ontario, 1610–1985 : a political and economic history. Dundurn Press. ISBN 978-0-919670-98-3. Ontario.
Ontario is Canada's leading manufacturing province, accounting for 52% of the total national manufacturing shipments in 2004.[68] Ontario's largest trading partner is the American state of Michigan. As of April 2012[update], Moody's bond-rating agency rated Ontario debt at AA2/stable,[69] while S&P rated it AA-.[70] Dominion Bond Rating Service rated it AA(low) in January 2013.[71] Long known as a bastion of Canadian manufacturing and financial solvency, Ontario's public debt-to-GDP ratio is projected to be 38.4% in fiscal year 2023–2024.[72]
Mineral exploitation accelerated in the late 19th century, leading to the rise of important mining centres in the northeast, such as Sudbury, Cobalt and Timmins. The province harnessed its water power to generate hydro-electric power and created the state-controlled Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario, later Ontario Hydro. The availability of cheap electric power further facilitated the development of industry. The Ford Motor Company of Canada was established in 1904 and the McLaughlin Motor Car Company (later General Motors Canada) was founded in 1907. The motor vehicle industry became the most lucrative industry for the Ontario economy during the 20th century.
^ "Thunder Bay A" (CSV). Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. Retrieved September 29, 2013.
^ Morrow, Adrian; Atkins, Eric (November 21, 2013). "Cliffs' pullout forces Ontario action in Ring of Fire mining area". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on July 1, 2016.
"Universities". Tcu.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on June 2, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
"Ontario Power Generation: Power Generation". Opg.com. Archived from the original on February 26, 2011. Retrieved February 23, 2011.
Transportation routes in Ontario evolved from early waterway travel and First Nations paths followed by European explorers. Ontario has two major east–west routes, both starting from Montreal in the neighbouring province of Quebec. The northerly route, which was a major fur trade route, travels west from Montreal along the Ottawa River, then continues northwestward towards Manitoba. Major cities on or near the route include Ottawa, North Bay, Sudbury, Sault Ste. Marie, and Thunder Bay. The southerly route, which was driven by growth in settlements originated by the United Empire Loyalists and later other European immigrants, travels southwest from Montreal along the St. Lawrence River, Lake Ontario, and Lake Erie before entering the United States in Michigan. Major cities on or near the route include Kingston, Belleville, Peterborough, Oshawa, Toronto, Mississauga, Kitchener-Waterloo, Hamilton, London, Sarnia, and Windsor. This route was also heavily used by immigrants to the Midwestern US particularly in the late 19th century.
"WeatherStats: Weather Winners". Amateur Weather Statistics for Ottawa (Kanata – Orléans), Ontario. Archived from the original on June 30, 2020. Retrieved June 29, 2020.
^ a b c Morrow, Adrian; McCarthy, Shawn (December 2, 2013). "Ontario projects steady rise in electricity costs for next 20 years". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on May 4, 2017.
Michael Sletcher, "Ottawa", in James Ciment, ed., Colonial America: An Encyclopedia of Social, Political, Cultural, and Economic History, (5 vols., M. E. Sharpe, New York, 2006).
^ "Population of census metropolitan areas (2001 Census boundaries)". Statistics Canada. Archived from the original on July 24, 2005. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
American troops in the War of 1812 invaded Upper Canada across the Niagara River and the Detroit River, but were defeated and pushed back by the British, Canadian fencibles and militias, and First Nations warriors. However, the Americans eventually gained control of Lake Erie and Lake Ontario. The 1813 Battle of York saw American troops defeat the garrison at the Upper Canada capital of York. The Americans looted the town and burned the Upper Canada Parliament Buildings during their brief occupation. The British would burn the American capital of Washington, D.C. in 1814.
^ "Population and dwelling counts, for Canada, provinces and territories, and census subdivisions (municipalities), 2006 and 2001 censuses – 100% data". Statistics Canada, 2006 Census of Population. March 13, 2007. Archived from the original on September 12, 2007. Retrieved March 13, 2007.
^ "WeatherStats: Weather Winners". Amateur Weather Statistics for Ottawa (Kanata – Orléans), Ontario. Archived from the original on June 30, 2020. Retrieved June 29, 2020.
^ Mills, David (1877). Report on the Boundaries of the Province of Ontario. Toronto: Hunter, Rose & Co. p. 347. Archived from the original on November 7, 2011. Retrieved September 14, 2009.
3History											Toggle History subsection																					3.1Indigenous habitation (pre-1610)																											3.2Pays d'en Haut (1610–1763)																											3.3Province of Quebec (1763–1791)																											3.4Upper Canada (1791–1841)																											3.5Canada West (1841–1867)																											3.6Canadian province (1867–present)
Marquis, Greg (January 2010). "View of Confederation's Casualties: The "Maritimer" as a Problem in 1960s Toronto | Acadiensis". Acadiensis. Archived from the original on February 1, 2021. Retrieved January 28, 2021.
In 1788, while part of the Province of Quebec, southern Ontario was divided into four districts: Hesse, Lunenburg, Mecklenburg, and Nassau. In 1792, the four districts were renamed: Hesse became the Western District, Lunenburg became the Eastern District, Mecklenburg became the Midland District, and Nassau became the Home District. Counties were created within the districts.
"ARCHIVED – People – Virtual Vault – Library and Archives Canada"
Chambers, Lori, and Edgar-Andre Montigny, eds. Ontario Since Confederation: A Reader (2000), articles by scholars.
^ "1981 to 2010 Canadian Climate Normals". Environment Canada. February 13, 2014. Climate ID: 6158350. Archived from the original on April 3, 2016. Retrieved February 24, 2014.
The surrounding Great Lakes greatly influence the climatic region of southern Ontario.[20] During the fall and winter, the release of heat stored by the lakes moderates the climate near the shores.[22] This gives parts of southern Ontario milder winters than mid-continental areas at lower latitudes.[22] Parts of Southwestern Ontario (generally south of a line from Sarnia–Toronto) have a moderate humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification Dfa), similar to the inland Mid-Atlantic states and the Great Lakes portion of the Midwestern United States. The region has warm to hot, humid summers and cold winters. Annual precipitation ranges from 750–1,000 mm (30–39 in) and is well distributed throughout the year. Most of this region lies in the lee of the Great Lakes, making for abundant snow in some areas. In December 2010, the snowbelt set a new record when it was hit by more than a metre of snow within 48 hours.[23]
^ Neill, R. (2005). Atlantica: partial recovery and partial decline: the context of Maritime emigration, 1870–1970. in Atlantic Canada Economics Association Conference 2005 Working Papers Series (Vol. 2005). Retrieved from http://economics.acadiau.ca/id-2005.html Archived October 19, 2021, at the Wayback Machine
^ "120 years of Capital building". National Capital Commission. 2019. Archived from the original on July 16, 2022. Retrieved September 14, 2019.
^ "Ottawa Macdonald Cartier Int'l A, Ontario". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on May 9, 2014. Retrieved May 8, 2014.
^ Statistics Canada treats Norfolk County and Haldimand County as one single census division; the County of Brant and City of Brantford are also treated as one single census division. There would otherwise be 51 census divisions instead of the 49 official ones used by Statistics Canada.
"Credit agency praises Ontario but holds back on rating boost". metronews.ca. January 14, 2013. Archived from the original on December 3, 2013. Retrieved November 25, 2013.
The post-World War II period was one of exceptional prosperity and growth. Ontario has been the recipients of most immigration to Canada, largely immigrants from war-torn Europe in the 1950s and 1960s and following changes in federal immigration law, a massive influx of non-Europeans since the 1970s. From a largely ethnically British province, Ontario has rapidly become culturally very diverse.
^ "The Contact Period". ontarioarchaeology.com. Archived from the original on October 3, 2009. Retrieved September 26, 2009.
^ "Moosonee UA". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 9, 2014.
"Profile of the Francophone population in Ontario – 2016". www.ontario.ca. Queen's Printer for Ontario. February 5, 2019. Archived from the original on May 22, 2020. Retrieved April 24, 2020.
"Sub-national HDI – Subnational HDI – Global Data Lab". Archived from the original on September 25, 2021. Retrieved September 8, 2021.
"About Ontario; History; French and British Struggle for Domination". Government of Ontario. Archived from the original on September 5, 2007. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
Canada, Government of Canada, Statistics (October 24, 2012). "2011 Census of Canada: Topic-based tabulations". 12.ststcan.gc.ca. Archived from the original on July 4, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
"Canadian Federal and Provincial Fiscal Tables" (PDF). Economic Forecasts & Special Reports. Royal Bank of Canada. January 14, 2020. Archived (PDF) from the original on February 5, 2020. Retrieved January 18, 2020.
^ "Ontario is rich in hydroelectricity, especially areas near the Niagara River". Ontario Facts. Archived from the original on February 18, 2007. Retrieved February 2, 2007.
^ "'His legend lives on': Ontario to get poet laureate in memory of Gord Downie". CBC News. December 12, 2019. Archived from the original on December 12, 2019. Retrieved December 13, 2019.
In 2019, the government of Ontario passed legislation that established the Poet Laureate of Ontario.[114]
^ "Biography – MACKENZIE, WILLIAM LYON – Volume IX (1861–1870)". Dictionary of Canadian Biography. Archived from the original on January 5, 2021. Retrieved October 25, 2018.
Pages using infobox settlement with image map1 but not image map
^ Finance, Government of Ontario, Ministry of. "Ontario Fact Sheet May 2016". Fin.gov.on.ca. Archived from the original on June 13, 2016. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
"Population of census metropolitan areas (2001 Census boundaries)". Statistics Canada. Archived from the original on July 24, 2005. Retrieved January 5, 2007.
^ "AMO – How Municipal Government Works". www.amo.on.ca. Archived from the original on April 23, 2019. Retrieved May 14, 2019.
"Population and dwelling counts, for Canada, provinces and territories, and census subdivisions (municipalities), 2006 and 2001 censuses – 100% data". Statistics Canada, 2006 Census of Population. March 13, 2007. Archived from the original on September 12, 2007. Retrieved March 13, 2007.
Montigny, Edgar-André; Chambers, Anne Lorene (2000). Ontario since Confederation : a reader. University of Toronto Press. ISBN 978-0-8020-4444-0. Archived from the original on June 13, 2021. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
^ "Moody's downgrades Ontario credit rating". April 26, 2012. Archived from the original on April 6, 2014.
Ontario (/ɒnˈtɛərioʊ/ (listen) on-TAIR-ee-oh; French: [ɔ̃taʁjo]) is one of the thirteen provinces and territories of Canada.[9][10] Located in Central Canada, it is Canada's most populous province, with 38.3 percent of the country's population, and is the second-largest province by total area (after Quebec).[11][12] Ontario is Canada's fourth-largest jurisdiction in total area when the territories of the Northwest Territories and Nunavut are included.[3] It is home to the nation's capital city, Ottawa, and the nation's most populous city, Toronto,[13] which is Ontario's provincial capital.
"New French Slogan Licence Plate for Passenger Vehicles". Government of Ontario. June 10, 2010. Archived from the original on July 28, 2010. Retrieved July 29, 2010.
"Ontario is rich in hydroelectricity, especially areas near the Niagara River"
"Emo Radbourne". Canadian Climate Normals 1981–2010. Environment Canada. October 31, 2011. Archived from the original on June 4, 2016. Retrieved May 9, 2016.
Keenan, Greg (October 29, 2013). "U.S. Steel ends an era in Hamilton". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on May 16, 2017.
Drunk driving (blood alcohol content of 0.2 per mille or above)
Stopping (stopopdracht), i.e. stop behind a vehicle and drive away
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Driver's licence B (in Dutch)". Archived from the original on 2015-07-16. Retrieved 2015-07-16.
Exceeding the speed limit by at least 30 km/h (19 mph)
When the learner has passed their theory exam, they can request a TTT (TussenTijdse Toets). This is an intermediate exam in which the learner needs to do two special manoeuvres. If they complete these successfully, they are exempted from those manoeuvres in the final practical test. The manoeuvres include:
A learner who has passed the theory exam can take the practical exam, provided the CBR has decided that the learner is eligible. One has to fill out an EV (Eigen Verklaring): a list of eleven questions about one's general health (e.g. "have you ever been treated for a mental illness or do you have diabetes?")[4]The practical exam covers everything that should have been learned: looking in the inside mirror, then the wing mirror and then over one's shoulder at every turn (twice per turn), driving onto and on the motorway, knowing what is under the bonnet, what all the lights on the dashboard mean, etc.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Driver's licence B (in Dutch)". Archived from the original on 2015-07-16. Retrieved 2015-07-16.
"Nieuwe regels voor het rijbewijs AM" (PDF). Rijksoverheid.nl. Ministerie van Infrastructuur en Milieu. Retrieved 19 May 2015.[permanent dead link]
"Over 2toDrive - 2toDrive". Archived from the original on 2015-10-12. Retrieved 2015-10-29.
This page was last edited on 17 December 2022, at 05:46 (UTC).
After passing the exam, one has to go to the town/city hall with an approved passport photograph;[5] a few days later, the licence can be collected. When the practical exam is completed by a 17-year-old, they also need a pass[clarification needed] to get their licence. The pass includes the name of the driver and the name(s) of the supervisors: only the supervisors named on the pass can supervise.[6]
Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information.
From 1 July 2015, a driving licence is required for a tractor designated with T. This licence can be obtained from 16 years of age.[3] People with a driver's licence for cars (B) obtained on or before July 1, 2015 can drive a tractor without additional exams.
In the Netherlands, a licence to drive a car (licence B) can be obtained from the age of 17. However, the drivers must be supervised by an adult, who's at least 27 years old, until reaching the age of 18.[1] If two serious offenses are committed within five years of a licence being issued to a new driver, the holder will have their licence revoked and must pass the test again to get their licence back.
^ "Over 2toDrive - 2toDrive". Archived from the original on 2015-10-12. Retrieved 2015-10-29.
^ "Nieuwe regels voor het rijbewijs AM" (PDF). Rijksoverheid.nl. Ministerie van Infrastructuur en Milieu. Retrieved 19 May 2015.[permanent dead link]
There are a few steps one needs to follow to obtain a licence.One has to go to a driving school (rijschool) and start to learn how to drive. There is also a compulsory theory exam at the CBR (Centraal Bureau Rijvaardigheidsbewijzen). In the Netherlands, bicycles are a very important part of the test. Cyclists are everywhere and cars need to yield to them quite frequently. Not yielding to a cyclist during your exam means you have failed automatically. One can also take the test in an automatic vehicle, which means one is only allowed to drive an automatic vehicle (code 78).There is no legal minimum number of lessons to be taken.
A moped can be driven by persons aged 16 or over who are in possession of a moped licence (category AM). Since March 1, 2010 every driver is required to pass a practical exam in addition to a theory exam. Holders of category A or B licences are allowed to drive a moped without any additional documents or testing.[2]
^ "University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences". Health & Hospitals. U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
Bourne, Hampton (September–October 2022). "Calling Accents". Ducks Unlimited. Memphis, Tennessee: 76. ISSN 0012-6950. OCLC 1774718. Retrieved September 12, 2022.
^ "Physical exercise (most recent) by state". Health Statistics. Archived from the original on May 13, 2013. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
"Estimates of Population Change for Metropolitan Statistical Areas and Rankings"
"Arkansas State Rail Plan" (PDF). Arkansas State Highway and Transportation Department. 2002. p. 3. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 17, 2013. Retrieved August 25, 2012.
By 1900 the Democratic Party expanded use of the white primary in county and state elections, further denying blacks a part in the political process. Only in the primary was there any competition among candidates, as Democrats held all the power. The state was a Democratic one-party state for decades, until after passage of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Voting Rights Act of 1965 to enforce constitutional rights.[37]
"Quality Counts 2009—State Report Cards—Education Week". edweek.org. January 8, 2009.
Arkansas is home to many areas protected by the National Park System. These include:[179]
^ "Religion in America: U.S. Religious Data, Demographics and Statistics". Pew Research Center's Religion & Public Life Project. Retrieved June 4, 2021.
^ a b c d e The region was organized as the Territory of Arkansaw on July 4, 1819, but the territory was admitted to the United States as the state of Arkansas on June 15, 1836. The name was historically pronounced /ˈɑːrkənsɔː/, /ɑːrˈkænzəs/, and several other variants. The residents of Arkansas have called themselves either "Arkansans" or "Arkansawyers". In 1881, the Arkansas General Assembly passed the following concurrent resolution, now Arkansas Code 1 April 105:[14].mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}Whereas, confusion of practice has arisen in the pronunciation of the name of our state and it is deemed important that the true pronunciation should be determined for use in oral official proceedings.And, whereas, the matter has been thoroughly investigated by the State Historical Society and the Eclectic Society of Little Rock, which have agreed upon the correct pronunciation as derived from history, and the early usage of the American immigrants.Be it therefore resolved by both houses of the General Assembly, that the only true pronunciation of the name of the state, in the opinion of this body, is that received by the French from the native Indians and committed to writing in the French word representing the sound. It should be pronounced in three (3) syllables, with the final "s" silent, the "a" in each syllable with the Italian sound, and the accent on the first and last syllables. The pronunciation with the accent on the second syllable with the sound of "a" in "man" and the sounding of the terminal "s" is discouraged by Arkansans. Despite this, the state's name is still frequently mispronounced, especially by non-Americans; in fact, it is spelled in Cyrillic with the ar-KAN-zəs pronunciation.Citizens of the state of Kansas often pronounce the Arkansas River as /ɑːrˈkænzəs/, in a manner similar to the common pronunciation of the name of their state.
^ Cash, Marie (December 1943). "Arkansas Achieves Statehood". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 2 (4): 292–308. doi:10.2307/40018776. JSTOR 40018776.
Wilson, William Oscar (August 30, 1918). History of Public School Education in Arkansas; 1900–1918. University of Chicago, Department of Education. p. 4.
Historical Population Change Data (1910–2020) Archived April 29, 2021, at the Wayback Machine
Arkansas has many rivers, lakes, and reservoirs within or along its borders. Major tributaries to the Mississippi River include the Arkansas River, the White River, and the St. Francis River.[52] The Arkansas is fed by the Mulberry and Fourche LaFave Rivers in the Arkansas River Valley, which is also home to Lake Dardanelle. The Buffalo, Little Red, Black and Cache Rivers are all tributaries to the White River, which also empties into the Mississippi. Bayou Bartholomew and the Saline, Little Missouri, and Caddo Rivers are all tributaries to the Ouachita River in south Arkansas, which empties into the Mississippi in Louisiana. The Red River briefly forms the state's boundary with Texas.[53] Arkansas has few natural lakes and many reservoirs,[quantify] such as Bull Shoals Lake, Lake Ouachita, Greers Ferry Lake, Millwood Lake, Beaver Lake, Norfork Lake, DeGray Lake, and Lake Conway.[54]
According to the 2006–2008 American Community Survey, 93.8% of Arkansas's population (over the age of five) spoke only English at home. About 4.5% of the state's population spoke Spanish at home. About 0.7% of the state's population spoke another Indo-European language. About 0.8% of the state's population spoke an Asian language, and 0.2% spoke other languages.[clarification needed dubious]
The Geographic Names Index System (GNIS) of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) indicates that the official name of this feature is Magazine Mountain, not "Mount Magazine". Although not a hard and fast rule, generally "Mount X" is used for a peak and "X Mountain" is more frequently used for ridges, which better describes this feature. Magazine Mountain appears in the GNIS as a ridge,[3] with Signal Hill identified as its summit.[4] "Mount Magazine" is the name used by the Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism, which follows what the locals have used since the area was first settled.
Arkansas has 1,064 state-funded kindergartens, elementary, junior and senior high schools.[143]
3Geography											Toggle Geography subsection																					3.1Boundaries																											3.2Terrain																											3.3Hydrology																											3.4Flora and fauna																											3.5Climate																											3.6Cities and towns
Wilson, William Oscar (August 30, 1918). History of Public School Education in Arkansas; 1900–1918. University of Chicago, Department of Education. p. 8.
^ Guldin, James M.; Technical Compiler (May 30–31, 1997). "Proceedings of the Symposium on Arkansas Forests: A Conference on the Results of the Recent Forest Survey of Arkansas". Gen. Tech. Rep. SRS-41. Asheville, Nc: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Southern Research Station. 125 P. United States Forest Service. 041: 74. doi:10.2737/SRS-GTR-41.
^ "Population of Arkansas—Census 2010 and 2000 Interactive Map, Demographics, Statistics, Quick Facts—CensusViewer". Censusviewer.com. Archived from the original on January 27, 2014. Retrieved January 6, 2014.
Today only about three percent of the population are employed in the agricultural sector,[111] it remains a major part of the state's economy, ranking 13th in the nation in the value of products sold.[112] Arkansas is the nation's largest producer of rice, broilers, and turkeys,[113] and ranks in the top three for cotton, pullets, and aquaculture (catfish).[112] Forestry remains strong in the Arkansas Timberlands, and the state ranks fourth nationally and first in the South in softwood lumber production.[114] Automobile parts manufacturers have opened factories in eastern Arkansas to support auto plants in other states. Bauxite was formerly a large part of the state's economy, mined mostly around Saline County.[115]
"An Economic Assessment of Arkansas's Forest Industries: Challenges and Opportunities for the 21st Century"
This page was last edited on 17 March 2023, at 02:32 (UTC).
"Brooks-Baxter War—Encyclopedia of Arkansas". Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved August 24, 2007.
Blair, Diane D. & Jay Barth Arkansas Politics & Government: Do the People Rule? (2005)
"Arkansas High Schools". U.S. News & World Report. 2012. Archived from the original on August 30, 2012. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
^ Sauter, Michael; Weigley, Samuel (January 30, 2013). "The states with the best and worst schools". Yahoo. Archived from the original on February 2, 2013. Retrieved February 1, 2013.
1925 University of Central Arkansas established (as Arkansas State Normal School)
"Estimates of Population Change for Metropolitan Statistical Areas and Rankings". United States Census Bureau. July 1, 2010 – July 1, 2011. Archived from the original (XLS) on July 7, 2012. Retrieved July 8, 2012.
After the Supreme Court ruled segregation in public schools unconstitutional in Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas (1954), some students worked to integrate schools in the state. The Little Rock Nine brought Arkansas to national attention in 1957 when the federal government had to intervene to protect African-American students trying to integrate a high school in the capital. Governor Orval Faubus had ordered the Arkansas National Guard to help segregationists prevent nine African-American students from enrolling at Little Rock's Central High School. After attempting three times to contact Faubus, President Dwight D. Eisenhower sent 1,000 troops from the active-duty 101st Airborne Division to escort and protect the African-American students as they entered school on September 25, 1957. In defiance of federal court orders to integrate, the governor and city of Little Rock decided to close the high schools for the remainder of the school year. By the fall of 1959, the Little Rock high schools were completely integrated.[40]
"The 2022 Annual Homelessness Assessment Report (AHAR) to Congress" (PDF).
Reynolds, Chris (October 14, 2012). "Crystal Bridges art museum is reshaping Wal-Mart's hometown". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved November 18, 2012.
Thompson, Brock. The Un-Natural State: Arkansas and the Queer South (2010)
In 1874, the Brooks-Baxter War, a political struggle between factions of the Republican Party shook Little Rock and the state governorship. It was settled only when President Ulysses S. Grant ordered Joseph Brooks to disperse his militant supporters.[35]
^ "Office of Lieutenant Governor". Encyclopedia of Arkansas. The Pryor Center. February 28, 2011. Retrieved January 6, 2013.
The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 flooded the areas along the Ouachita Rivers along with many other rivers.
"I-540 becomes Interstate 49". KHBS. April 22, 2014. Retrieved November 10, 2019.
"Physical exercise (most recent) by state". Health Statistics. Archived from the original on May 13, 2013. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
"Elevations and Distances in the United States". United States Geological Survey. 2001. Archived from the original on October 15, 2011. Retrieved October 21, 2011.
As of 2010 many Arkansas local newspapers are owned by WEHCO Media, Alabama-based Lancaster Management, Kentucky-based Paxton Media Group, Missouri-based Rust Communications, Nevada-based Stephens Media, and New York-based GateHouse Media.[166]
The state has eight cities with populations above 50,000 (based on 2010 census). In descending order of size, they are Little Rock, Fort Smith, Fayetteville, Springdale, Jonesboro, North Little Rock, Conway, and Rogers. Of these, only Fort Smith and Jonesboro are outside the two largest metropolitan areas. Other cities in Arkansas include Pine Bluff, Crossett, Bryant, Lake Village, Hot Springs, Bentonville, Texarkana, Sherwood, Jacksonville, Russellville, Bella Vista, West Memphis, Paragould, Cabot, Searcy, Van Buren, El Dorado, Blytheville, Harrison, Dumas, Rison, Warren, and Mountain Home.[citation needed]
"VR Statistics Report for June 2021" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022. Retrieved June 9, 2021.
The Arkansas Clean Indoor Air Act, a statewide smoking ban excluding bars and some restaurants, went into effect in 2006.[139]
Persons of Hispanic or Latino origin are not distinguished between total and partial ancestry.
^ Kornacki, Steve (July 30, 2012). "When Bill Clinton died onstage". Salon. Retrieved November 10, 2016.
^ Parker, Suzy (September 25, 2011). "Arkansas's hillbilly image persists into 21st century". Reuters. Little Rock, AR.
Arkansas is served by 2,750 miles (4,430 km) of railroad track divided among twenty-six railroad companies including three Class I railroads.[119] Freight railroads are concentrated in southeast Arkansas to serve the industries in the region. The Texas Eagle, an Amtrak passenger train, serves five stations in the state Walnut Ridge, Little Rock, Malvern, Arkadelphia, and Texarkana.
^ American FactFinder, United States Census Bureau (2010). "Arkansas—Selected Social Characteristics in the United States". American Community Survey. Archived from the original on February 12, 2020. Retrieved July 4, 2012.
^ Stanley Lieberson and Lawrence Santi, 'The Use of Nativity Data to Estimate Ethnic Characteristics and Patterns', Social Science Research, Vol. 14, No. 1 (1985), pp. 44–6.
Non-Hispanic White.mw-parser-output .legend{page-break-inside:avoid;break-inside:avoid-column}.mw-parser-output .legend-color{display:inline-block;min-width:1.25em;height:1.25em;line-height:1.25;margin:1px 0;text-align:center;border:1px solid black;background-color:transparent;color:black}.mw-parser-output .legend-text{}  40–50%  50–60%  60–70%  70–80%  80–90%  90%+Black or African American  40–50%  50–60%  60–70%
^ "Quick Facts, Income and Poverty". United States Census Bureau. 2015. Retrieved February 19, 2017.
^ Wilson, William Oscar (August 30, 1918). History of Public School Education in Arkansas; 1900–1918. University of Chicago, Department of Education. p. Page.
"2019 Census Data for Races and Ethnicities". data.census.gov. Retrieved June 3, 2021.
Scroggs, Jack B (Autumn 1961). "Arkansas Statehood: A Study in State and National Political Schism". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 20 (3): 227–244. doi:10.2307/40038048. JSTOR 40038048.
^ "Religion in America: U.S. Religious Data, Demographics and Statistics". Pewforum.org. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
1909 Arkansas Tech University, Southern Arkansas University, University of Arkansas at Monticello and Arkansas State University established as schools offering high school diplomas and vocational training
^ U.S. Department of Agriculture, National Agricultural Statistics Service, Poultry—Production and Value, 2010 Summary, data indicates Arkansas led the nation in 2008, 2009, and 2010, in both broilers and turkeys.
1890 Henderson State University established (as a private school, becoming Henderson State Teachers College in 1929)
Before European settlement of North America, Arkansas, was inhabited by indigenous peoples for thousands of years. The Caddo, Osage, and Quapaw peoples encountered European explorers. The first of these Europeans was Spanish explorer Hernando de Soto in 1541, who crossed the Mississippi and marched across central Arkansas and the Ozark Mountains. After finding nothing he considered of value and encountering native resistance the entire way, he and his men returned to the Mississippi River where de Soto fell ill. From his deathbed he ordered his men to massacre all the men of the nearby village of Anilco, who he feared had been plotting with a powerful polity down the Mississippi River, Quigualtam. His men obeyed and did not stop with the men, but were said to have massacred women and children as well. He died the following day in what is believed to be the vicinity of modern-day McArthur, Arkansas, in May 1542. His body was weighted down with sand and he was consigned to a watery grave in the Mississippi River under cover of darkness by his men. De Soto had attempted to deceive the native population into thinking he was an immortal deity, sun of the sun, in order to forestall attack by outraged Native Americans on his by then weakened and bedraggled army. In order to keep the ruse up, his men informed the locals that de Soto had ascended into the sky. His will at the time of his death listed "four Indian slaves, three horses and 700 hogs" which were auctioned off. The starving men, who had been living off maize stolen from natives, immediately started butchering the hogs and later, commanded by former aide-de-camp Moscoso, attempted an overland return to Mexico. They made it as far as Texas before running into territory too dry for maize farming and too thinly populated to sustain themselves by stealing food from the locals. The expedition promptly backtracked to Arkansas. After building a small fleet of boats they then headed down the Mississippi River and eventually on to Mexico by water.[16][17]
"National Liberal Arts College Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. 2012. Archived from the original on August 21, 2016. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
Times, The New York (May 24, 2022). "Tracking the States Where Abortion Is Now Banned". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved August 15, 2022.
^ "Educational Attainment, American Community Survey 1-Year Estimates". 2010 United States Census. United States Census Bureau. 2010. Archived from the original on February 12, 2020. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
"Selected Economic Characteristics 2006–2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates". United States Census Bureau. 2011. Archived from the original on February 12, 2020. Retrieved October 4, 2012.
In 1881, the Arkansas state legislature enacted a bill that adopted an official pronunciation of the state's name, to combat a controversy then simmering. (See Law and Government below.)
In northeast Arkansas, I-55 travels north from Memphis to Missouri, with a new spur to Jonesboro (I-555). Northwest Arkansas is served by the segment of I-49 from Fort Smith to the beginning of the Bella Vista Bypass. This segment of I-49 currently follows mostly the same route as the former section of I-540 that extended north of I-40.[117] The state also has the 13th largest state highway system in the nation.[118]
"Census Regions and Divisions of the United States" (PDF). Geography Division, United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 20, 2013. Retrieved June 23, 2012.
Whayne, Jeannie M. Arkansas Biography: A Collection of Notable Lives (2000)
"New Arkansas Rep. Cotton Draws Spotlight; 113th Congress Sworn In"
^ Din, Gilbert C. (Spring 1981). "Arkansas Post in the American Revolution". The Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 40 (1): 17–28. doi:10.2307/40023280. JSTOR 40023280.
Additional Native American removals began in earnest during the territorial period, with final Quapaw removal complete by 1833 as they were pushed into Indian Territory.[28] The capital was relocated from Arkansas Post to Little Rock in 1821, during the territorial period.[29]
William D. Baker, Minority Settlement in the Mississippi River Counties of the Arkansas Delta, 1870–1930 Archived May 27, 2008, at the Wayback Machine, Arkansas Preservation Commission. Retrieved May 14, 2008
"Biggest US Cities By Population—Arkansas—2017 Populations". United States Census Bureau. Retrieved March 2, 2019.
^ "Arkansas's Highpoint Information" (PDF). Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 6, 2013. Retrieved January 2, 2013.
^ a b "Elevations and Distances in the United States". United States Geological Survey. 2001. Archived from the original on October 15, 2011. Retrieved October 21, 2011.
Urban, Peter (January 4, 2013). "New Arkansas Rep. Cotton Draws Spotlight; 113th Congress Sworn In". The Times-Record. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013. Retrieved January 6, 2013.
^ "Selected Economic Characteristics 2006–2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates". United States Census Bureau. 2011. Archived from the original on February 12, 2020. Retrieved October 4, 2012.
^ "Best High Schools in Arkansas". U.S. News & World Report. 2012. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
^ "PRRI – American Values Atlas". ava.prri.org. Retrieved September 17, 2022.
"Annual Estimates of the Resident Population for the United States, Regions, States, and Puerto Rico: April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2019". 2010-2019 Population Estimates. United States Census Bureau, Population Division. December 30, 2019. Retrieved January 27, 2020.
35°N 92°W﻿ / ﻿35°N 92°W﻿ / 35; -92﻿ (State of Arkansas)
^ Mukhopadhyay, PhD, Sutapa. "Memphis: The Number One City of Chemical Related Incidents in Tennessee" (PDF). Tennessee Department of Health. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 17, 2013. Retrieved August 25, 2012.
Arkansas (/ˈɑːrkənsɔː/ (listen) AR-kən-saw[c]) is a landlocked state in the South Central United States.[8][9] It is bordered by Missouri to the north, Tennessee and Mississippi to the east, Louisiana to the south, and Texas and Oklahoma to the west. Its name is from the Osage language, a Dhegiha Siouan language, and referred to their relatives, the Quapaw people.[10] The state's diverse geography ranges from the mountainous regions of the Ozark and Ouachita Mountains, which make up the U.S. Interior Highlands, to the densely forested land in the south known as the Arkansas Timberlands, to the eastern lowlands along the Mississippi River and the Arkansas Delta.
^ Please note this figure refers to only the number of students paddled, regardless of whether a student was spanked multiple times in a year, and does not refer to the number of instances of corporal punishment, which would be substantially higher.
^ a b Wilson, William Oscar (August 30, 1918). History of Public School Education in Arkansas; 1900–1918. University of Chicago, Department of Education. p. 3.
Griffee, Carol. "Odyssey of Survival, A History of the Arkansas Conservation Sales Tax" (PDF). p. 10. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 17, 2013. Retrieved September 16, 2012.
Hartgen, David T.; Karanam, M. Gregory; Fields; Kerscher, Travis A. (September 2010). "19th Annual Report on the Performance of State Highway Systems (1984–2008)" (PDF) (PDF). Reason Foundation. p. 46. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022.
A 2010 survey of the principal ancestries of Arkansas's residents revealed the following:[94] 15.5% African American, 12.3% Irish, 11.5% German, 11.0% American, 10.1% English, 4.7% Mexican, 2.1% French, 1.7% Scottish, 1.7% Dutch, 1.6% Italian, and 1.4% Scots-Irish.
^ "Brooks-Baxter War—Encyclopedia of Arkansas". Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved August 24, 2007.
Bolton, S. Charles (Spring 1999). "Slavery and the Defining of Arkansas". The Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 58 (1): 1–23. doi:10.2307/40026271. JSTOR 40026271.
The name has been pronounced and spelled in a variety of ways.[c] In 1881, the state legislature defined the official pronunciation of Arkansas as having the final "s" be silent (as it would be in French). A dispute had arisen between the state's two senators over the pronunciation issue. One favored /ˈɑːrkənsɔː/ (AR-kən-saw), the other /ɑːrˈkænzəs/ (ar-KAN-zəs).[c]
"The Mineral Industry of Arkansas" (PDF). 2008 Minerals Yearbook. United States Geological Survey. August 2011. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022. Retrieved September 11, 2012.
Baseball runs deep in Arkansas and was popular before the state hosted Major League Baseball (MLB) spring training in Hot Springs from 1886 to the 1920s. Two minor league teams are based in the state. The Arkansas Travelers play at Dickey–Stephens Park in North Little Rock, and the Northwest Arkansas Naturals play in Arvest Ballpark in Springdale. Both teams compete in Double-A Central.
^ Holley, Donald (Autumn 2005). "Leaving the Land of Opportunity: Arkansas and the Great Migration". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 64 (3): 247–248. doi:10.2307/40028047. JSTOR 40028047.
"Arkansas #20". America's Best States for Business 2012. CNBC. 2013. Retrieved May 26, 2013.
Based on the order of President Franklin D. Roosevelt given shortly after Imperial Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor, nearly 16,000 Japanese Americans were forcibly removed from the West Coast of the United States and incarcerated in two internment camps in the Arkansas Delta.[39] The Rohwer Camp in Desha County operated from September 1942 to November 1945 and at its peak interned 8,475 prisoners.[39] The Jerome War Relocation Center in Drew County operated from October 1942 to June 1944 and held about 8,000.[39]
Arkansas generally has a humid subtropical climate. While not bordering the Gulf of Mexico, Arkansas, is still close enough to the warm, large body of water for it to influence the weather in the state. Generally, Arkansas, has hot, humid summers and slightly drier, mild to cool winters. In Little Rock, the daily high temperatures average around 93 °F (34 °C) with lows around 73 °F (23 °C) in July. In January highs average around 51 °F (11 °C) and lows around 32 °F (0 °C). In Siloam Springs in the northwest part of the state, the average high and low temperatures in July are 89 and 67 °F (32 and 19 °C) and in January the average high and low are 44 and 23 °F (7 and −5 °C). Annual precipitation throughout the state averages between about 40 and 60 inches (1,000 and 1,500 mm); it is somewhat wetter in the south and drier in the northern part of the state.[65] Snowfall is infrequent but most common in the northern half of the state.[52] The half of the state south of Little Rock is apter to see ice storms. Arkansas's record high is 120 °F (49 °C) at Ozark on August 10, 1936; the record low is −29 °F (−34 °C) at Gravette, on February 13, 1905.[66]
In 2007, the state legislature passed a non-binding resolution declaring that the possessive form of the state's name is Arkansas's, which the state government has increasingly followed.[15]
^ Arkansas Atlas and Gazetteer. Yarmouth, Maine: DeLorme. 2004. p. 12.
Bright, William (2007). Native American Placenames of the United States. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press. p. 47. ISBN 978-0-806135984.
Healthcare in Arkansas is provided by a network of hospitals as members of the Arkansas Hospital Association. Major institutions with multiple branches include Baptist Health, Community Health Systems, and HealthSouth. The University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS) in Little Rock operates the UAMS Medical Center, a teaching hospital ranked as high performing nationally in cancer and nephrology.[140] The pediatric division of UAMS Medical Center is known as Arkansas Children's Hospital, nationally ranked in pediatric cardiology and heart surgery.[141] Together, these two institutions are the state's only Level I trauma centers.[142]
"Arkansas matchup is not likely soon". Sun Herald. July 20, 2003. p. 9B.
^ Wilson, Reid. "Arkansas is the Best State in America". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 9, 2014.
Intercolonial WarsKing William's WarQueen Anne's WarKing George's WarSeven Years' War
^ Flagel, Thomas R. (September 1, 2010). The History Buff's Guide to the Civil War: The best, the worst, the largest, and the most lethal top ten rankings of the Civil War. Sourcebooks, Inc. ISBN 978-1-4022-5487-1.
^ "Arkansas QuickFacts". United States Census Bureau. June 7, 2012. Archived from the original on January 4, 2011. Retrieved July 4, 2012.
Holley, Marc J. "Encyclopedia of Arkansas". Education Reform. University of Arkansas. Retrieved August 27, 2017.
Arkansas is the 29th largest by area and the 34th most populous state, with a population of just over 3 million at the 2020 census.[5] The capital and most populous city is Little Rock, in the central part of the state, a hub for transportation, business, culture, and government. The northwestern corner of the state, including the Fayetteville–Springdale–Rogers Metropolitan Area and Fort Smith metropolitan area, is a population, education, and economic center. The largest city in the state's eastern part is Jonesboro. The largest city in the state's southeastern part is Pine Bluff.
Northwest Arkansas is part of the Ozark Plateau including the Ozark Mountains, to the south are the Ouachita Mountains, and these regions are divided by the Arkansas River; the southern and eastern parts of Arkansas are called the Lowlands.[45] These mountain ranges are part of the U.S. Interior Highlands region, the only major mountainous region between the Rocky Mountains and the Appalachian Mountains.[46] The state's highest point is Mount Magazine in the Ouachita Mountains,[47] which is 2,753 feet (839 m) above sea level.[4]
^ a b Bright, William (2007). Native American Placenames of the United States. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press. p. 47. ISBN 978-0-806135984.
Arkansas's culture is observable in museums, theaters, novels, television shows, restaurants, and athletic venues across the state. Notable people from the state include politician and educational advocate William Fulbright; former president Bill Clinton, who also served as the 40th and 42nd governor of Arkansas; general Wesley Clark, former NATO Supreme Allied Commander; Walmart founder and magnate Sam Walton;[12] singer-songwriters Johnny Cash, Charlie Rich, Jimmy Driftwood, and Glen Campbell; actor-filmmaker Billy Bob Thornton; poet C. D. Wright; physicist William L. McMillan, a pioneer in superconductor research; poet laureate Maya Angelou; Douglas MacArthur; musician Al Green; actor Alan Ladd; basketball player Scottie Pippen; singer Ne-Yo; Chelsea Clinton; actress Sheryl Underwood; and author John Grisham.
"Annual Estimates of the Population of Metropolitan and Micropolitan Statistical Areas"
^ "Arkansas State Rail Plan" (PDF). Arkansas State Highway and Transportation Department. 2002. p. 3. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 17, 2013. Retrieved August 25, 2012.
Hunting continues in the state. The state created the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission in 1915 to regulate hunting.[176] Today a significant portion of Arkansas's population participates in hunting duck in the Mississippi flyway and deer across the state.[177] Ducks Unlimited has called Stuttgart, Arkansas, "the epicenter of the duck universe".[178] Millions of acres of public land are available for both bow and modern gun hunters.[177]
^ Sharing the Dream: White Males in a Multicultural America By Dominic J. Pulera.
^ David Hackett Fischer, Albion's Seed: Four British Folkways in America, New York: Oxford University Press, 1989, pp.633–639
^ "Graph: Total Gross Domestic Product by State for Arkansas". Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 2015. Retrieved February 19, 2017.
^ Exner, Rich (June 3, 2012). "Americans under age 1 now mostly minorities, but not in Ohio: Statistical Snapshot". The Plain Dealer.
"Crater of Diamonds: History of diamonds, diamond mining in Arkansas". Craterofdiamondsstatepark.com. Archived from the original on August 21, 2010. Retrieved July 30, 2010.
"Arkansas QuickFacts". U.S. Census Bureau. Archived from the original on January 4, 2011. Retrieved December 13, 2004.
"Arkansas 2000 Census Population Center". NOAA. Retrieved July 4, 2012.
"Quality counts" (PDF). edweek.org. 2012. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022.
1957 Governor Orval Faubus uses National Guard troops to oppose racial integration of Little Rock Central High School
Donovan, Timothy P. and Willard B. Gatewood Jr., eds. The Governors of Arkansas (1981)
^ Reynolds, Chris (October 14, 2012). "Crystal Bridges art museum is reshaping Wal-Mart's hometown". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved November 18, 2012.
Arkansas held a very important position for the Rebels, maintaining control of the Mississippi River and surrounding Southern states. The bloody Battle of Wilson's Creek just across the border in Missouri shocked many Arkansans who thought the war would be a quick and decisive Southern victory. Battles early in the war took place in northwest Arkansas, including the Battle of Cane Hill, Battle of Pea Ridge, and Battle of Prairie Grove. Union general Samuel Curtis swept across the state to Helena in the Delta in 1862. Little Rock was captured the following year. The government shifted the state Confederate capital to Hot Springs, and then again to Washington from 1863 to 1865, for the remainder of the war. Throughout the state, guerrilla warfare ravaged the countryside and destroyed cities.[34] Passion for the Confederate cause waned after implementation of programs such as the draft, high taxes, and martial law.
^ Wilson, William Oscar (August 30, 1918). History of Public School Education in Arkansas; 1900–1918. University of Chicago, Department of Education. p. 7.
^ C. Dennis Schick, "Mass Media", Encyclopedia of Arkansas, Central Arkansas Library System, retrieved March 24, 2017
"Race and Ethnicity in the United States: 2010 Census and 2020 Census"
"Arkansas State Profile" (PDF). Census of Agriculture. United States Department of Agriculture. 2007. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022. Retrieved October 4, 2012.
^ "Arkansas Children's Hospital". Health & Hospitals. U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
The Republican Party majority status in the Arkansas State House of Representatives after the 2012 elections, is the party's first since 1874. Arkansas was the last state of the old Confederacy to not have Republican control of either chamber of its house since the American Civil War.[127]
^ "Top Public Schools". College Ranking Lists. U.S. News & World Report. 2014. Retrieved January 26, 2014.
^ "I-540 becomes Interstate 49". KHBS. April 22, 2014. Retrieved November 10, 2019.
The Arkansas Supreme Court is the court of last resort in the state, composed of seven justices elected to eight-year terms. Established by the Arkansas Constitution in 1836, the court's decisions can be appealed to only the Supreme Court of the United States.
^ "Department of Finance and Administration". Dfa.arkansas.gov. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
Hightower, Amy M. "States Show Spotty Progress on Education Gauges". Education Week. Vol. 32, no. 16. pp. 42, 44. Retrieved June 23, 2015.
^ "Arkansas QuickFacts". U.S. Census Bureau. Archived from the original on January 4, 2011. Retrieved December 13, 2004.
^ "2006–2007 Smartest State Award". Morgan Quitno Press. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
Cooke, Mallory (November 14, 2012). "Republicans Take Control of Arkansas House, Senate". KFSM-TV. Retrieved January 8, 2013.
"US Diamond Mines—Diamond Mining in the United States". Geology.com. Archived from the original on July 24, 2010. Retrieved July 30, 2010.
In the late 1880s, the worsening agricultural depression catalyzed Populist and third party movements, leading to interracial coalitions. Struggling to stay in power, in the 1890s the Democrats in Arkansas followed other Southern states in passing legislation and constitutional amendments that disfranchised blacks and poor whites. In 1891 state legislators passed a requirement for a literacy test, knowing it would exclude many blacks and whites. At the time, more than 25% of the population could neither read nor write. In 1892, they amended the state constitution to require a poll tax and more complex residency requirements, both of which adversely affected poor people and sharecroppers, forcing most blacks and many poor whites from voter rolls.
Din, Gilbert C. (Spring 1981). "Arkansas Post in the American Revolution". The Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 40 (1): 17–28. doi:10.2307/40023280. JSTOR 40023280.
Sauter, Michael; Weigley, Samuel (January 30, 2013). "The states with the best and worst schools". Yahoo. Archived from the original on February 2, 2013. Retrieved February 1, 2013.
^ "Arkansas Economy at a Glance". www.bls.gov. Retrieved October 31, 2021.
Wilson, William Oscar (August 30, 1918). History of Public School Education in Arkansas; 1900–1918. University of Chicago, Department of Education. p. Page.
Arkansas features a variety of native music across the state, ranging from the blues heritage of West Memphis, Pine Bluff, Helena–West Helena to rockabilly, bluegrass, and folk music from the Ozarks. Festivals such as the King Biscuit Blues Festival and Bikes, Blues, and BBQ pay homage to the history of blues in the state. The Ozark Folk Festival in Mountain View is a celebration of Ozark culture and often features folk and bluegrass musicians. Literature set in Arkansas such as I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings by Maya Angelou and A Painted House by John Grisham describe the culture at various time periods.
"Quick Facts, Income and Poverty". United States Census Bureau. 2015. Retrieved February 19, 2017.
"Arkansas Children's Hospital". Health & Hospitals. U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
^ Reynolds Farley, 'The New Census Question about Ancestry: What Did It Tell Us?', Demography, Vol. 28, No. 3 (August 1991), pp. 414, 421.
Elaine Massacre, Arkansas Encyclopedia of History and Culture; accessed April 3, 2008.
^ Schlosser, Eric (2013). Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the Damascus Accident, and the Illusion of Safety. Penguin Press. pp. Title. ISBN 978-1594202278.
Sports have become an integral part of the culture of Arkansas, and her residents enjoy participating in and spectating various events throughout the year.
"PRRI – American Values Atlas". ava.prri.org. Retrieved September 17, 2022.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Mag". NGS Data Sheet. National Geodetic Survey, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, United States Department of Commerce. Retrieved October 20, 2011.
Minority Settlement in the Mississippi River Counties of the Arkansas Delta, 1870–1930
"First Encounters, Hernando de Soto in the Mississippi Valley, 1541–42"
Fletcher, John Gould (1989).Carpenter, Lucas (ed.). Arkansas. Vol. 2. Fayetteville, AR: University of Arkansas Press. ISBN 978-1-55728-040-4. OCLC 555740849.
Tourism is also very important to the Arkansas economy; the official state nickname "The Natural State" was created for state tourism advertising in the 1970s, and is still used to this day. The state maintains 52 state parks and the National Park Service maintains seven properties in Arkansas. The completion of the William Jefferson Clinton Presidential Library in Little Rock has drawn many visitors to the city and revitalized the nearby River Market District. Many cities also hold festivals, which draw tourists to Arkansas culture, such as The Bradley County Pink Tomato Festival in Warren, King Biscuit Blues Festival, Ozark Folk Festival, Toad Suck Daze, and Tontitown Grape Festival.[citation needed]
^ "Education Spending Per Student by State". Governing. February 9, 2012. Retrieved August 27, 2017.
Schlosser, Eric (2013). Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the Damascus Accident, and the Illusion of Safety. Penguin Press. pp. Title. ISBN 978-1594202278.
^ "State Climate Records". State Climate Extremes Committee. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Climatic Data Center. July 23, 2012. Retrieved January 4, 2013.
"Arkansas's Highpoint Information" (PDF). Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 6, 2013. Retrieved January 2, 2013.
^ "Race and Ethnicity in the United States: 2010 Census and 2020 Census". census.gov. United States Census Bureau. August 12, 2021. Retrieved September 26, 2021.
^ "Climate—Fort Smith—Arkansas". U.S. Climate Data. Retrieved May 29, 2013.
Arkansas Atlas and Gazetteer. Yarmouth, Maine: DeLorme. 2004. p. 12.
^ Pelkki, Matthew H. "An Economic Assessment of Arkansas's Forest Industries: Challenges and Opportunities for the 21st Century" (PDF). University of Arkansas-Monticello School of Forest Resources, Arkansas Forest Resources Center, University of Arkansas Division of Agriculture. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 28, 2012. Retrieved October 4, 2012.
^ "VR Statistics Report for June 2021" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022. Retrieved June 9, 2021.
"White Primary" System Bars Blacks from Politics—1900, The Arkansas News, Old State House, Spring 1987, p.3. Retrieved March 22, 2008.
^ "US Diamond Mines—Diamond Mining in the United States". Geology.com. Archived from the original on July 24, 2010. Retrieved July 30, 2010.
European Americans have a strong presence in the northwestern Ozarks and the central part of the state. African Americans live mainly in the southern and eastern parts of the state. Arkansans of Irish, English and German ancestry are mostly found in the far northwestern Ozarks near the Missouri border. Ancestors of the Irish in the Ozarks were chiefly Scots-Irish, Protestants from Northern Ireland, the Scottish lowlands and northern England part of the largest group of immigrants from Great Britain and Ireland before the American Revolution. English and Scots-Irish immigrants settled throughout the back country of the South and in the more mountainous areas. Americans of English stock are found throughout the state.[93]
The History Buff's Guide to the Civil War: The best, the worst, the largest, and the most lethal top ten rankings of the Civil War
White interests dominated Arkansas's politics, with disfranchisement of African Americans and refusal to reapportion the legislature. Only after the civil rights movement and federal legislation passed were more African Americans able to vote. The Supreme Court overturned rural domination in the South and other states that had refused to reapportion their state legislatures or retained rules based on geographic districts. In a series of cases in the 1960s during the height of related civil rights activities, the Warren Court invoked a one person, one vote principle, applying the Equal Protection Clause of the constitution and holding that states had to organize their legislatures by districts that held approximately equal populations, and that these had to be redefined as necessary after each decade's census.
"Magazine Mountain". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey. Retrieved January 2, 2013.
2History											Toggle History subsection																					2.1Early history																											2.2Purchase and statehood																											2.3Civil War and reconstruction																											2.4End of Reconstruction and late 19th century																											2.5Rise of the Jim Crow laws and early 20th century																											2.6Fall of segregation
Under the Military Reconstruction Act, Congress declared Arkansas restored to the Union in June 1868, after the Legislature accepted the 14th Amendment. The Republican-controlled reconstruction legislature established universal male suffrage (though temporarily disfranchising former Confederate Army officers, who were all Democrats), a public education system for blacks and whites, and passed general issues to improve the state and help more of the population. The State soon came under control of the Radical Republicans and Unionists, and led by Governor Powell Clayton, they presided over a time of great upheaval as Confederate sympathizers and the Ku Klux Klan fought the new developments, particularly voting rights for African Americans.
Williams, C. Fred. ed. A Documentary History Of Arkansas (2005)
"Population of Arkansas—Census 2010 and 2000 Interactive Map, Demographics, Statistics, Quick Facts—CensusViewer". Censusviewer.com. Archived from the original on January 27, 2014. Retrieved January 6, 2014.
"State Climate Records". State Climate Extremes Committee. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Climatic Data Center. July 23, 2012. Retrieved January 4, 2013.
Guldin, James M.; Technical Compiler (May 30–31, 1997). "Proceedings of the Symposium on Arkansas Forests: A Conference on the Results of the Recent Forest Survey of Arkansas". Gen. Tech. Rep. SRS-41. Asheville, Nc: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Southern Research Station. 125 P. United States Forest Service. 041: 74. doi:10.2737/SRS-GTR-41.
U.S. Department of Agriculture, National Agricultural Statistics Service, Poultry—Production and Value, 2010 Summary, data indicates Arkansas led the nation in 2008, 2009, and 2010, in both broilers and turkeys.
1885 Arkansas School for the Deaf and Arkansas School for the Blind established
^ "Language Log: Arkansas apostrophism". Itre.cis.upenn.edu. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
The state supports a network of public universities and colleges, including two major university systems: Arkansas State University System and University of Arkansas System. The University of Arkansas, flagship campus of the University of Arkansas System in Fayetteville was ranked #63 among public schools in the nation by U.S. News & World Report.[144] Other public institutions include University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff, Arkansas Tech University, Henderson State University, Southern Arkansas University, and University of Central Arkansas across the state. It is also home to 11 private colleges and universities including Hendrix College, one of the nation's top 100 liberal arts colleges, according to U.S. News & World Report.[145]
^ Blagg, Brenda (April 12, 2007). "Lawsuit may go way of Lake View district". DeWitt, Arkansas: Dewitt Era-Enterprise. p. 4A.
Flagel, Thomas R. (September 1, 2010). The History Buff's Guide to the Civil War: The best, the worst, the largest, and the most lethal top ten rankings of the Civil War. Sourcebooks, Inc. ISBN 978-1-4022-5487-1.
After Reconstruction, the state began to receive more immigrants and migrants. Chinese, Italian, and Syrian men were recruited for farm labor in the developing Delta region. None of these nationalities stayed long at farm labor; the Chinese especially, as they quickly became small merchants in towns around the Delta. Many Chinese became such successful merchants in small towns that they were able to educate their children at college.[36]
The Fayetteville–Springdale–Rogers Metropolitan Area is the second-largest metropolitan area in Arkansas, growing at the fastest rate due to the influx of businesses and the growth of the University of Arkansas and Walmart.[75]
It recorded population losses in the 1950 and 1960 censuses. This outmigration was a result of multiple factors, including farm mechanization, decreasing labor demand, and young educated people leaving the state due to a lack of non-farming industry in the state.[79] Arkansas again began to grow, recording positive growth rates ever since and exceeding two million by the 1980 census.[80] Arkansas's rate of change, age distributions, and gender distributions mirror national averages. Minority group data also approximates national averages. There are fewer people in Arkansas of Hispanic or Latino origin than the national average.[81] The center of population of Arkansas for 2000 was located in Perry County, near Nogal.[82]
^ Historical Census Browser, 1860 US Census, University of Virginia Archived August 23, 2007, at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved March 21, 2008.
"CNN.com Election 2004 - Ballot Measures". Cnn.com. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
"Arkansas.gov Administration page for Governor". Dwe.arkansas.gov. March 16, 2007. Archived from the original on June 14, 2006. Retrieved July 30, 2010.
List of U.S. states by date of admission to the Union
"List Wilderness Areas in Arkansas". University of Montana College of Forestry and Conservation Wilderness Institute, Arthur Carhart National Wilderness Training Center, Aldo Leopold Wilderness Research Institute. Retrieved January 2, 2013.
^ a b Farrell, Colin (February 2016). "Corporal punishment in US schools". World Corporal Punishment Research. Retrieved April 4, 2016.
Arkansas has elected only three Republicans to the U.S. Senate since Reconstruction: Tim Hutchinson, who was defeated after one term by Mark Pryor; John Boozman, who defeated incumbent Blanche Lincoln; and Tom Cotton, who defeated Pryor in 2014. Before 2013, the General Assembly had not been controlled by the Republican Party since Reconstruction, with the GOP holding a 51-seat majority in the state House and a 21-seat (of 35) in the state Senate following victories in 2012. Arkansas was one of just three states among the states of the former Confederacy that sent two Democrats to the U.S. Senate (the others being Florida and Virginia) for any period during the first decade of the 21st century.
"Best High Schools in Arkansas". U.S. News & World Report. 2012. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
^ Stanley Lieberson and Mary C. Waters, 'Ethnic Groups in Flux: The Changing Ethnic Responses of American Whites', Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 487, No. 79 (September 1986), pp. 82–86.
Dale, Edward E. Jr.; Ware, Stewart (April–June 2004). "Distribution of Wetland Tree Species in Relation to a Flooding Gradient and Backwater versus Streamside Location in Arkansas, U.S.A". Journal of the Torrey Botanical Society. 131 (2): 177–186. doi:10.2307/4126919. JSTOR 4126919.
"Historical Census Statistics on Population Totals By Race, 1790 to 1990, and By Hispanic Origin, 1970 to 1990, For The United States, Regions, Divisions, and States". Archived from the original on July 25, 2008. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
^ Wilson, William Oscar (August 30, 1918). History of Public School Education in Arkansas; 1900–1918. University of Chicago, Department of Education. p. 4.
^ Eno, Clara B. (Winter 1945). "Territorial Governors of Arkansas". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 4 (4): 278. doi:10.2307/40018362. JSTOR 40018362.
"Annual Estimates of the Resident Population for the United States, Regions, States, and Puerto Rico: April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2019"
Rise of the Jim Crow laws and early 20th century
The WPA Guide to 1930s Arkansas. Federal Writers' Project (1st paperback ed.). Lawrence, KS: University Press of Kansas. 1987 [1941]. ISBN 978-0700603411. LCCN 87-81307.
Cash, Marie (December 1943). "Arkansas Achieves Statehood". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 2 (4): 292–308. doi:10.2307/40018776. JSTOR 40018776.
"The Association of Religion Data Archives | State membership Report". Thearda.com. Archived from the original on December 2, 2013. Retrieved November 7, 2013.
Sharing the Dream: White Males in a Multicultural America By Dominic J. Pulera.
Sutherlin, Diann (1996). The Arkansas Handbook (2nd ed.). Little Rock, Arkansas: Fly By Night Press. ISBN 978-0-932531-03-2. LCCN 95-90761.
Arnold, Morris S.; DeBlack, Thomas A; Sabo III, George; Whayne, Jeannie M (2002). Arkansas: A narrative history (1st ed.). Fayetteville, AR: The University of Arkansas Press. ISBN 978-1-55728-724-3. OCLC 49029558.
Be it therefore resolved by both houses of the General Assembly, that the only true pronunciation of the name of the state, in the opinion of this body, is that received by the French from the native Indians and committed to writing in the French word representing the sound. It should be pronounced in three (3) syllables, with the final "s" silent, the "a" in each syllable with the Italian sound, and the accent on the first and last syllables. The pronunciation with the accent on the second syllable with the sound of "a" in "man" and the sounding of the terminal "s" is an innovation to be discouraged.
Arkansas is known for extreme weather and frequent storms. A typical year brings thunderstorms, tornadoes, hail, snow and ice storms. Between both the Great Plains and the Gulf States, Arkansas, receives around 60 days of thunderstorms. Arkansas is located in Tornado Alley, and as a result, a few of the most destructive tornadoes in U.S. history have struck the state. While sufficiently far from the coast to avoid a direct hit from a hurricane, Arkansas can often get the remnants of a tropical system, which dumps tremendous amounts of rain in a short time and often spawns smaller tornadoes.[citation needed]
^ a b Elevation adjusted to North American Vertical Datum of 1988.
"Arkansas QuickFacts". United States Census Bureau. June 7, 2012. Archived from the original on January 4, 2011. Retrieved July 4, 2012.
"Animals of Arkansas". animalsaroundtheglobe.com. May 2, 2022. Archived from the original on July 1, 2022. Retrieved July 29, 2022.
"Graph: Total Gross Domestic Product by State for Arkansas". Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 2015. Retrieved February 19, 2017.
"Qua;ity counts" (PDF). Education Week. 2013. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022.
Arkansas also benefits from the use of its rivers for commerce. The Mississippi River and Arkansas River are both major rivers. The United States Army Corps of Engineers maintains the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River Navigation System, allowing barge traffic up the Arkansas River to the Port of Catoosa in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Following the term limits changes, studies have shown that lobbyists have become less influential in state politics. Legislative staff, not subject to term limits, have acquired additional power and influence due to the high rate of elected official turnover.[128]
David Hackett Fischer, Albion's Seed: Four British Folkways in America, New York: Oxford University Press, 1989, pp.633–639
Bureau, US Census (April 26, 2021). "2020 Census Apportionment Results". The United States Census Bureau. Retrieved April 27, 2021.
^ Persons of Hispanic or Latino origin are not distinguished between total and partial ancestry.
^ "Arkansas 2000 Census Population Center". NOAA. Retrieved July 4, 2012.
^ "2019 Census Data for Races and Ethnicities". data.census.gov. Retrieved June 3, 2021.
Arnold, Morris S (Spring 1992). "The Significance of the Arkansas Colonial Experience". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 51 (1): 69–82. doi:10.2307/40038202. JSTOR 40038202.
Kornacki, Steve (July 30, 2012). "When Bill Clinton died onstage". Salon. Retrieved November 10, 2016.
In Arkansas, the lieutenant governor is elected separately from the governor and thus can be from a different political party.[124]
^ "Arkansas High Schools". U.S. News & World Report. 2012. Archived from the original on August 30, 2012. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
"Historical Census Statistics on Population Totals By Race, 1790 to 1990, and By Hispanic Origin, 1970 to 1990, For The United States, Regions, Divisions, and States"
"Education Spending Per Student by State". Governing. February 9, 2012. Retrieved August 27, 2017.
Arkansas State University became the second NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) (then known as Division I-A) team in the state in 1992 after playing in lower divisions for nearly two decades. The two schools have never played each other, due to the University of Arkansas's policy of not playing intrastate games.[175] Two other campuses of the University of Arkansas System are Division I members. The University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff is a member of the Southwestern Athletic Conference, a league whose members all play football in the second-level Football Championship Subdivision (FCS). The University of Arkansas at Little Rock, known for sports purposes as Little Rock, joined the Ohio Valley Conference in 2022 after playing in the Sun Belt Conference; unlike many other OVC members, it does not field a football program. The state's other Division I member is the University of Central Arkansas (UCA), which joined the ASUN Conference in 2021 after leaving the FCS Southland Conference. Because the ASUN does not plan to start FCS football competition until at least 2022, UCA football is competing in the Western Athletic Conference as part of a formal football partnership between the two leagues. Seven of Arkansas's smaller colleges play in NCAA Division II, with six in the Great American Conference and one in the Lone Star Conference. Two other small Arkansas colleges compete in NCAA Division III, in which athletic scholarships are prohibited. High school football also began to grow in Arkansas in the early 20th century.
Arkansas State Databases—Annotated list of searchable databases produced by Arkansas state agencies and compiled by the Government Documents Roundtable of the American Library Association.
^ a b Bureau, US Census (April 26, 2021). "2020 Census Apportionment Results". The United States Census Bureau. Retrieved April 27, 2021.
American FactFinder, United States Census Bureau (2010). "Arkansas—Selected Social Characteristics in the United States". American Community Survey. Archived from the original on February 12, 2020. Retrieved July 4, 2012.
"Religion in America: U.S. Religious Data, Demographics and Statistics". Pewforum.org. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
^ "National Liberal Arts College Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. 2012. Archived from the original on August 21, 2016. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
^ "Quality counts" (PDF). edweek.org. 2012. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022.
Please note this figure refers to only the number of students paddled, regardless of whether a student was spanked multiple times in a year, and does not refer to the number of instances of corporal punishment, which would be substantially higher.
^ Bolton, S. Charles (Spring 1999). "Slavery and the Defining of Arkansas". The Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 58 (1): 9. doi:10.2307/40026271. JSTOR 40026271.
^ Sabo III, George (December 12, 2008). "First Encounters, Hernando de Soto in the Mississippi Valley, 1541–42". Retrieved May 3, 2012.
"Odyssey of Survival, A History of the Arkansas Conservation Sales Tax"
Holley, Donald (Autumn 2005). "Leaving the Land of Opportunity: Arkansas and the Great Migration". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 64 (3): 247–248. doi:10.2307/40028047. JSTOR 40028047.
Be it therefore resolved by both houses of the General Assembly, that the only true pronunciation of the name of the state, in the opinion of this body, is that received by the French from the native Indians and committed to writing in the French word representing the sound. It should be pronounced in three (3) syllables, with the final "s" silent, the "a" in each syllable with the Italian sound, and the accent on the first and last syllables. The pronunciation with the accent on the second syllable with the sound of "a" in "man" and the sounding of the terminal "s" is discouraged by Arkansans.
^ "Magazine Mountain". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey. Retrieved January 2, 2013.
^ Jones, Daniel (1997) English Pronouncing Dictionary, 15th ed. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-45272-4.
In 1867, the state legislature was still controlled by ex-Confederates. It passed a Common Schools Law that allowed public funded but limited schools to white children.
^ "Annual Estimates of the Population of Metropolitan and Micropolitan Statistical Areas". United States Census Bureau. April 1, 2010 – July 1, 2011. Archived from the original (XLS) on July 7, 2012. Retrieved July 8, 2012.
^ "Little Rock Nine—Encyclopedia of Arkansas". Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved August 24, 2007.
^ Cooke, Mallory (November 14, 2012). "Republicans Take Control of Arkansas House, Senate". KFSM-TV. Retrieved January 8, 2013.
Blevins, Brooks (2009). Arkansas/Arkansaw, How Bear Hunters, Hillbillies & Good Ol' Boys Defined a State. Fayetteville, AR: University of Arkansas Press. ISBN 978-1-55728-952-0.
The United States Census Bureau estimated that the population of Arkansas was 3,017,804 on July 1, 2019, a 3.49% increase since the 2010 United States census.[77] At the 2020 U.S. census, Arkansas had a resident population of 3,011,524.
Mukhopadhyay, PhD, Sutapa. "Memphis: The Number One City of Chemical Related Incidents in Tennessee" (PDF). Tennessee Department of Health. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 17, 2013. Retrieved August 25, 2012.
^ a b "Census Regions and Divisions of the United States" (PDF). Geography Division, United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 20, 2013. Retrieved June 23, 2012.
^ Times, The New York (May 24, 2022). "Tracking the States Where Abortion Is Now Banned". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved August 15, 2022.
^ Lyon, Owen (Autumn 1950). "The Trail of the Quapaw". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 9 (3): 206–7. doi:10.2307/40017228. JSTOR 40017228.
Little Rock has been Arkansas's capital city since 1821 when it replaced Arkansas Post as the capital of the Territory of Arkansas.[73] The state capitol was moved to Hot Springs and later Washington during the American Civil War when the Union armies threatened the city in 1862, and state government did not return to Little Rock until after the war ended. Today, the Little Rock–North Little Rock–Conway metropolitan area is the largest in the state, with a population of 724,385 in 2013.[74]
Arkansas is one of the least educated U.S. states. It ranks near the bottom in terms of percentage of the population with a high school or college degree. The state's educational system has a history of underfunding, low teachers' salaries and political meddling in the curriculum.[149]
Greenberg, Dan. "The Dangers of Diluting Term Limits". Arkansas Policy Center. Retrieved February 3, 2012.
"Office of Lieutenant Governor". Encyclopedia of Arkansas. The Pryor Center. February 28, 2011. Retrieved January 6, 2013.
From fewer than 15,000 in 1820, Arkansas's population grew to 52,240 during a special census in 1835, far exceeding the 40,000 required to apply for statehood.[78] Following statehood in 1836, the population doubled each decade until the 1870 census conducted following the American Civil War. The state recorded growth in each successive decade, although it gradually slowed in the 20th century.
^ "Qua;ity counts" (PDF). Education Week. 2013. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022.
^ "Forest Inventory and Analysis". United States Forest Service, Southern Research Station. 2010. Archived from the original (XLS) on December 1, 2012. Retrieved July 5, 2012.
The name Arkansas initially applied to the Arkansas River. It derives from a French term, Arcansas, their plural term for their transliteration of akansa, an Algonquian term for the Quapaw people.[13] These were a Dhegiha Siouan-speaking people who settled in Arkansas around the 13th century. Akansa is likely also the root term for Kansas, which was named after the related Kaw people.[13]
Moore, Waddy W. ed., Arkansas in the Gilded Age, 1874–1900 (1976).
White, Lonnie J. Politics on the Southwestern Frontier: Arkansas Territory, 1819–1836 (1964)
"Code" (1‐4‐105). AR, US: Assembly. Archived from the original (official text) on September 24, 2011. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Davidson, James West. After the Fact: The Art of Historical Detection Volume 1. Mc Graw Hill, New York 2010, Chapter 1, p. 2,3
Brummett, John (January 13, 2008). "Retirement of an Arkansas Newsmaker". Pine Bluff Commercial. Pine Bluff, Arkansas: Arkansas News Bureau. Retrieved January 16, 2021 – via Newsbank.
"Designated Trauma Centers". Arkansas Department of Health. December 17, 2012. Archived from the original on February 11, 2012. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
Arkansas's judicial branch has five court systems: Arkansas Supreme Court, Arkansas Court of Appeals, Circuit Courts, District Courts and City Courts.
"Signal Hill". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey. Retrieved January 2, 2013.
2.5Rise of the Jim Crow laws and early 20th century
^ a b "Arkansas". America's Health Rankings. United Health Foundation. 2012. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
Parker, Suzy (September 25, 2011). "Arkansas's hillbilly image persists into 21st century". Reuters. Little Rock, AR.
As with the federal government of the United States, political power in Arkansas is divided into three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial. Each officer's term is four years long. Office holders are term-limited to two full terms plus any partial terms before the first full term.[120]
^ "Crater of Diamonds: History of diamonds, diamond mining in Arkansas". Craterofdiamondsstatepark.com. Archived from the original on August 21, 2010. Retrieved July 30, 2010.
^ Bartels, Chuck (November 12, 2012). "600K visitors later, Crystal Bridges turns 1". News Ok. Retrieved June 18, 2017.
Stanley Lieberson and Mary C. Waters, 'Ethnic Groups in Flux: The Changing Ethnic Responses of American Whites', Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 487, No. 79 (September 1986), pp. 82–86.
"University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences". Health & Hospitals. U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
Wilson, Reid. "Arkansas is the Best State in America". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 9, 2014.
"Monthly Averages for Little Rock, AR". The Weather Channel. Retrieved June 28, 2012.
^ "Resident Population Data". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on December 20, 2012. Retrieved July 4, 2012.
Reflecting the state's large evangelical population, Arkansas has a strong social conservative bent. In the aftermath of the landmark Supreme Court decision Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, Arkansas became one of nine states where abortion is banned.[132] Under the Arkansas Constitution, Arkansas is a right to work state. Its voters passed a ban on same-sex marriage in 2004, with 75% voting yes,[133] although that ban has been inactive since the Supreme Court protected same-sex marriage in Obergefell v. Hodges.
"Population of Arkansas—Census 2010 and 2000 Interactive Map, Demographics, Statistics, Quick Facts—CensusViewer"
Napoleon Bonaparte sold French Louisiana to the United States in 1803, including all of Arkansas, in a transaction known today as the Louisiana Purchase. French soldiers remained as a garrison at Arkansas Post. Following the purchase, the balanced give-and-take relationship between settlers and Native Americans began to change all along the frontier, including in Arkansas.[24] Following a controversy over allowing slavery in the territory, the Territory of Arkansas was organized on July 4, 1819.[c] Gradual emancipation in Arkansas was struck down by one vote, the Speaker of the House Henry Clay, allowing Arkansas to organize as a slave territory.[25]
According to HUD's 2022 Annual Homeless Assessment Report, there were an estimated 2,459 homeless people in Arkansas.[83] [84]
Arkansas ranks as the 32nd smartest state on the Morgan Quitno Smartest State Award, 44th in percentage of residents with at least a high school diploma, and 48th in percentage of bachelor's degree attainment.[154][155] Arkansas has been making strides in education reform. Education Week has praised the state, ranking Arkansas in the top 10 of their Quality Counts Education Rankings every year since 2009 while scoring it in the top 5 during 2012 and 2013.[156][157][158] Arkansas specifically received an A in Transition and Policy Making for progress in this area consisting of early-childhood education, college readiness, and career readiness.[159] Governor Mike Beebe has made improving education a major issue through his attempts to spend more on education.[160] Through reforms, the state is a leader in requiring curricula designed to prepare students for postsecondary education, rewarding teachers for student achievement, and providing incentives for principals who work in lower-tier schools.[161]
Arkansas governor Bill Clinton brought national attention to the state with a long speech at the 1988 Democratic National Convention endorsing Michael Dukakis. Some journalists suggested the speech was a threat to his ambitions; Clinton defined it "a comedy of error, just one of those fluky things".[131] He won the Democratic nomination for president in 1992. Presenting himself as a "New Democrat" and using incumbent George H. W. Bush's broken promise against him, Clinton won the 1992 presidential election with 43.0% of the vote to Bush's 37.5% and independent billionaire Ross Perot's 18.9%.
^ Historical Population Change Data (1910–2020) Archived April 29, 2021, at the Wayback Machine
^ "CNN.com Election 2004 - Ballot Measures". Cnn.com. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
^ Elaine Massacre, Arkansas Encyclopedia of History and Culture; accessed April 3, 2008.
Historical Census Browser, 1860 US Census, University of Virginia Archived August 23, 2007, at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved March 21, 2008.
^ Hightower, Amy M. "States Show Spotty Progress on Education Gauges". Education Week. Vol. 32, no. 16. pp. 42, 44. Retrieved June 23, 2015.
1873 University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff established as a school to train black teachers
Sabo III, George (December 12, 2008). "First Encounters, Hernando de Soto in the Mississippi Valley, 1541–42". Retrieved May 3, 2012.
^ Bourne, Hampton (September–October 2022). "Calling Accents". Ducks Unlimited. Memphis, Tennessee: 76. ISSN 0012-6950. OCLC 1774718. Retrieved September 12, 2022.
^ "List Wilderness Areas in Arkansas". University of Montana College of Forestry and Conservation Wilderness Institute, Arthur Carhart National Wilderness Training Center, Aldo Leopold Wilderness Research Institute. Retrieved January 2, 2013.
Both Arkansas's U.S. senators, John Boozman and Tom Cotton, are Republicans. The state has four seats in U.S. House of Representatives. All four seats are held by Republicans: Rick Crawford (1st district), French Hill (2nd district), Steve Womack (3rd district), and Bruce Westerman (4th district).[129]
"Educational Attainment, American Community Survey 1-Year Estimates". 2010 United States Census. United States Census Bureau. 2010. Archived from the original on February 12, 2020. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
^ Dale, Edward E. Jr.; Ware, Stewart (April–June 2004). "Distribution of Wetland Tree Species in Relation to a Flooding Gradient and Backwater versus Streamside Location in Arkansas, U.S.A". Journal of the Torrey Botanical Society. 131 (2): 177–186. doi:10.2307/4126919. JSTOR 4126919.
^ "Winners in '06 Governors races" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on July 28, 2011. Retrieved July 30, 2010.
^ "Graph: Per Capita Personal Income in Arkansas". Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 2015. Retrieved February 19, 2017.
"Arkansas Senate flips; first time since Reconstruction". The Courier. November 7, 2012. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013. Retrieved January 8, 2013.
^ "Arkansas matchup is not likely soon". Sun Herald. July 20, 2003. p. 9B.
Previously part of French Louisiana and the Louisiana Purchase, the Territory of Arkansas was admitted to the Union as the 25th state on June 15, 1836.[11] Much of the Delta had been developed for cotton plantations, and landowners there largely depended on enslaved African Americans' labor. In 1861, Arkansas seceded from the United States and joined the Confederate States of America during the American Civil War. On returning to the Union in 1868, Arkansas continued to suffer economically, due to its overreliance on the large-scale plantation economy. Cotton remained the leading commodity crop, and the cotton market declined. Because farmers and businessmen did not diversify and there was little industrial investment, the state fell behind in economic opportunity. In the late 19th century, the state instituted various Jim Crow laws to disenfranchise and segregate the African-American population. During the civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s, Arkansas and particularly Little Rock were major battlegrounds for efforts to integrate schools.
^ "Arkansas Smoking Ban". KLRT-TV. July 22, 2006. Archived from the original on May 17, 2013. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
Black sharecroppers began to try to organize a farmers' union after World War I. They were seeking better conditions of payment and accounting from white landowners of the area cotton plantations. Whites resisted any change and often tried to break up their meetings. On September 30, 1919, two white men, including a local deputy, tried to break up a meeting of black sharecroppers who were trying to organize a farmers' union. After a white deputy was killed in a confrontation with guards at the meeting, word spread to town and around the area.[citation needed] Hundreds of whites from Phillips and neighboring areas rushed to suppress the blacks, and started attacking blacks at large. Governor Charles Hillman Brough requested federal troops to stop what was called the Elaine massacre. White mobs spread throughout the county, killing an estimated 237 blacks before most of the violence was suppressed after October 1.[38] Five whites also died in the incident. The governor accompanied the troops to the scene; President Woodrow Wilson had approved their use.
The governor of Arkansas is Sarah Huckabee Sanders, a Republican, who was inaugurated on January 10, 2023.[121][122] The six other elected executive positions in Arkansas are lieutenant governor, secretary of state, attorney general, treasurer, auditor, and land commissioner.[123] The governor also appoints the leaders of various state boards, committees, and departments. Arkansas governors served two-year terms until a referendum lengthened the term to four years, effective with the 1986 election. Individuals elected to these offices are limited to a lifetime total of two four-year terms per office.
As an organized territory, and later in the early days of statehood, education was funded by the sales of federally controlled public lands. This system was inadequate and prone to local graft. In an 1854 message to the legislature, Governor Elias N. Conway said, "We have a common-school law intended as a system to establish common schools in all part of the state; but for the want of adequate means there are very few in operation under this law." At the time, only about a quarter of children were enrolled in school.[162] By the beginning of the American Civil War, the state had only twenty-five publicly funded common schools.[163]
^ "Historical Census Statistics on Population Totals By Race, 1790 to 1990, and By Hispanic Origin, 1970 to 1990, For The United States, Regions, Divisions, and States". Archived from the original on July 25, 2008. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
^ Bush, William V. "History of Bauxite in Arkansas" (PDF). Arkansas Geological Survey. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 17, 2013. Retrieved October 4, 2012.
Taxes are collected by the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration.[135]
Stanley Lieberson and Lawrence Santi, 'The Use of Nativity Data to Estimate Ethnic Characteristics and Patterns', Social Science Research, Vol. 14, No. 1 (1985), pp. 44–6.
Generally prohibited in the West at large, school corporal punishment is not unusual in Arkansas, with 20,083 public school students[e] paddled at least one time, according to government data for the 2011–12 school year.[148] The rate of corporal punishment in public schools is higher only in Mississippi.[148]
^ "Arkansas.gov Administration page for Governor". Dwe.arkansas.gov. March 16, 2007. Archived from the original on June 14, 2006. Retrieved July 30, 2010.
In early antebellum Arkansas, the southeast Arkansas slave-based economy developed rapidly. On the eve of the American Civil War in 1860, enslaved African Americans numbered 111,115 people, just over 25% of the state's population.[31] A plantation system based largely on cotton agriculture developed that, after the war, kept the state and region behind the nation for decades.[32] The wealth developed among planters of southeast Arkansas caused a political rift between the northwest and southeast.[33]
Hanson, Gerald T. and Carl H. Moneyhon. Historical Atlas of Arkansas (1992)
Johnson, William R. (Spring 1965). "Prelude to the Missouri Compromise: A New York Congressman's Effort to Exclude Slavery from Arkansas Territory". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 24 (1): 47–66. doi:10.2307/40023964. JSTOR 40023964.
Bureau, US Census. "Decennial Census by Decades". The United States Census Bureau. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
^ "Arkansas Regions". Discover Arkansas History. The Department of Arkansas Heritage. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved June 28, 2012.
Bartels, Chuck (November 12, 2012). "600K visitors later, Crystal Bridges turns 1". News Ok. Retrieved June 18, 2017.
Reynolds Farley, 'The New Census Question about Ancestry: What Did It Tell Us?', Demography, Vol. 28, No. 3 (August 1991), pp. 414, 421.
"Memphis: The Number One City of Chemical Related Incidents in Tennessee"
The southeastern part of Arkansas along the Mississippi Alluvial Plain is sometimes called the Arkansas Delta. This region is a flat landscape of rich alluvial soils formed by repeated flooding of the adjacent Mississippi. Farther from the river, in the southeastern part of the state, the Grand Prairie has a more undulating landscape. Both are fertile agricultural areas. The Delta region is bisected by a geological formation known as Crowley's Ridge. A narrow band of rolling hills, Crowley's Ridge rises 250 to 500 feet (76 to 152 m) above the surrounding alluvial plain and underlies many of eastern Arkansas's major towns.[44]
^ "Arkansas Senate flips; first time since Reconstruction". The Courier. November 7, 2012. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013. Retrieved January 8, 2013.
Arkansas's plant life varies with its climate and elevation. The pine belt stretching from the Arkansas delta to Texas consists of dense oak-hickory-pine growth. Lumbering and paper milling activity is active throughout the region.[60] In eastern Arkansas, one can find Taxodium(cypress), Quercus nigra (water oaks), and hickories with their roots submerged in the Mississippi Valley bayous indicative of the deep south.[61] Nearby Crowley's Ridge is the only home of the tulip tree in the state, and generally hosts more northeastern plant life such as the beech tree.[62] The northwestern highlands are covered in an oak-hickory mixture, with Ozark white cedars, cornus (dogwoods), and Cercis canadensis (redbuds) also present. The higher peaks in the Arkansas River Valley play host to scores of ferns, including the Woodsia scopulina and Adiantum (maidenhair fern) on Mount Magazine.[63] Arkansas wildlife is famous for the white-tailed deer, elk, and bald eagle. The white-tailed deer is the official state mammal.[64]
Most Republican strength traditionally lay mainly in the northwestern part of the state, particularly Fort Smith and Bentonville, as well as North Central Arkansas around the Mountain Home area. In the latter area, Republicans have been known to get 90% or more of the vote, while the rest of the state was more Democratic. After 2010, Republican strength expanded further to the Northeast and Southwest and into the Little Rock suburbs. The Democrats are mostly concentrated to central Little Rock, the Mississippi Delta, the Pine Bluff area, and the areas around the southern border with Louisiana.
Citizens of the state of Kansas often pronounce the Arkansas River as /ɑːrˈkænzəs/, in a manner similar to the common pronunciation of the name of their state.
The culture of Arkansas includes distinct cuisine, dialect, and traditional festivals. Sports are also very important to the culture, including football, baseball, basketball, hunting, and fishing. Perhaps the best-known aspect of Arkansas's culture is the stereotype that its citizens are shiftless hillbillies.[167] The reputation began when early explorers characterized the state as a savage wilderness full of outlaws and thieves.[168] The most enduring icon of Arkansas's hillbilly reputation is The Arkansas Traveller, a painted depiction of a folk tale from the 1840s.[169] Though intended to represent the divide between rich southeastern plantation Arkansas planters and the poor northwestern hill country, the meaning was twisted to represent a Northerner lost in the Ozarks on a white horse asking a backwoods Arkansan for directions.[170] The state also suffers from the racial stigma common to former Confederate states, with historical events such as the Little Rock Nine adding to Arkansas's enduring image.[171]
^ "Code" (1‐4‐105). AR, US: Assembly. Archived from the original (official text) on September 24, 2011. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
2000 Census of Population and Housing for Arkansas, U.S. Census Bureau
In 2010, Republicans captured three of the state's four seats in the U.S. House of Representatives. In 2012, they won election to all four House seats. Arkansas held the distinction of having a U.S. House delegation composed entirely of military veterans (Rick Crawford, Army; Tim Griffin, Army Reserve; Steve Womack, Army National Guard; Tom Cotton, Army). When Pryor was defeated in 2014, the entire congressional delegation was in GOP hands for the first time since Reconstruction.
^ a b "Arkansas State Profile" (PDF). Census of Agriculture. United States Department of Agriculture. 2007. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022. Retrieved October 4, 2012.
"Resident Population Data". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on December 20, 2012. Retrieved July 4, 2012.
Settlers, such as fur trappers, moved to Arkansas in the early 18th century. These people used Arkansas Post as a home base and entrepôt.[20] During the colonial period, Arkansas changed hands between France and Spain following the Seven Years' War, although neither showed interest in the remote settlement of Arkansas Post.[22] In April 1783, Arkansas saw its only battle of the American Revolutionary War, a brief siege of the post by British Captain James Colbert with the assistance of the Choctaw and Chickasaw.[23]
^ Brummett, John (January 13, 2008). "Retirement of an Arkansas Newsmaker". Pine Bluff Commercial. Pine Bluff, Arkansas: Arkansas News Bureau. Retrieved January 16, 2021 – via Newsbank.
^ Smith, Darlene (Spring 1954). "Arkansas Post". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 13 (1): 120. doi:10.2307/40037965. JSTOR 40037965.
Coordinates: .mw-parser-output .geo-default,.mw-parser-output .geo-dms,.mw-parser-output .geo-dec{display:inline}.mw-parser-output .geo-nondefault,.mw-parser-output .geo-multi-punct{display:none}.mw-parser-output .longitude,.mw-parser-output .latitude{white-space:nowrap}35°N 92°W﻿ / ﻿35°N 92°W﻿ / 35; -92﻿ (State of Arkansas)
Ecological Regions of North America (PDF) (PDF). 1:10000000. United States Environmental Protection Agency. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 25, 2017. Retrieved July 5, 2012.
Hamilton, Peter Joseph. The Reconstruction Period (1906), full length history of era; Dunning School approach; 570 pp; ch 13 on Arkansas
^ "Monthly Averages for Little Rock, AR". The Weather Channel. Retrieved June 28, 2012.
The Arkansas General Assembly is the state's bicameral bodies of legislators, composed of the Senate and House of Representatives. The Senate contains 35 members from districts of approximately equal population. These districts are redrawn decennially with each US census, and in election years ending in "2", the entire body is put up for reelection. Following the election, half of the seats are designated as two-year seats and are up for reelection again in two years, these "half-terms" do not count against a legislator's term limits. The remaining half serve a full four-year term. This staggers elections such that half the body is up for reelection every two years and allows for complete body turnover following redistricting.[125] Arkansas voters elected a 21–14 Republican majority in the Senate in 2012. Arkansas House members can serve a maximum of three two-year terms. House districts are redistricted by the Arkansas Board of Apportionment. In the 2012 elections, Republicans gained a 51–49 majority in the House of Representatives.[126]
^ Urban, Peter (January 4, 2013). "New Arkansas Rep. Cotton Draws Spotlight; 113th Congress Sworn In". The Times-Record. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013. Retrieved January 6, 2013.
"Department of Finance and Administration". Dfa.arkansas.gov. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
Construction of railroads enabled more farmers to get their products to market. It also brought new development into different parts of the state, including the Ozarks, where some areas were developed as resorts. In a few years at the end of the 19th century, for instance, Eureka Springs in Carroll County grew to 10,000 people, rapidly becoming a tourist destination and the fourth-largest city of the state. It featured newly constructed, elegant resort hotels and spas planned around its natural springs, considered to have healthful properties. The town's attractions included horse racing and other entertainment. It appealed to a wide variety of classes, becoming almost as popular as Hot Springs.
Most people identifying as "American" are of English descent and/or Scots-Irish descent. Their families have been in the state so long, in many cases since before statehood, that they choose to identify simply as having American ancestry or do not in fact know their ancestry. Their ancestry primarily goes back to the original 13 colonies and for this reason many of them today simply claim American ancestry. Many people who identify as of Irish descent are in fact of Scots-Irish descent.[95][96][97][98]
As of June 2021, the state's unemployment rate was 4.4%; the preliminary rate for November 2021 is 3.4%.[109]
^ a b c "Japanese American Relocation Camps—Encyclopedia of Arkansas". encyclopediaofarkansas.net.
^ Hudson, Charles M. (1997). Knights of Spain, Warriors of the Sun. University of Georgia Press. pp. 341–351. ISBN 9780820318882.
1877 Philander Smith College established as a school for black students
Kirk, John A., Redefining the Color Line: Black Activism in Little Rock, Arkansas, 1940–1970 (2002).
"Winners in '06 Governors races" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on July 28, 2011. Retrieved July 30, 2010.
^ "Linguist list 14.4". Listserv.linguistlist.org. February 11, 2003. Archived from the original on December 8, 2008. Retrieved July 30, 2010.
^ The Geographic Names Index System (GNIS) of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) indicates that the official name of this feature is Magazine Mountain, not "Mount Magazine". Although not a hard and fast rule, generally "Mount X" is used for a peak and "X Mountain" is more frequently used for ridges, which better describes this feature. Magazine Mountain appears in the GNIS as a ridge,[3] with Signal Hill identified as its summit.[4] "Mount Magazine" is the name used by the Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism, which follows what the locals have used since the area was first settled.
^ "Arkansas's ACT score slips in 2010". Arkansas Public School Resource Center. August 18, 2010. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
"Arkansas Regions". Discover Arkansas History. The Department of Arkansas Heritage. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved June 28, 2012.
^ English, Art; Weberg, Brian (2005). "Term Limits in the Arkansas General Assembly: A Citizen Legislature Responds" (PDF). Joint Project on Term Limits. National Conference of State Legislatures. p. 1. Retrieved February 3, 2013.
In 2014, the Pew Research Center determined that 79% of the population was Christian, dominated by evangelicals in the Southern Baptist and independent Baptist churches. In contrast with many other states, the Catholic Church as of 2014 was not the largest Christian denomination in Arkansas. Of the unaffiliated population, 2% were atheist in 2014.[101] By 2020, the Public Religion Research Institute determined 71% of the population was Christian.[102] Arkansas continued to be dominated by evangelicals, followed by mainline Protestants and historically black or African American churches.
^ Davidson, James West. After the Fact: The Art of Historical Detection Volume 1. Mc Graw Hill, New York 2010, Chapter 1, p. 2,3
Smith, Darlene (Spring 1954). "Arkansas Post". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 13 (1): 120. doi:10.2307/40037965. JSTOR 40037965.
"Forest Inventory and Analysis". United States Forest Service, Southern Research Station. 2010. Archived from the original (XLS) on December 1, 2012. Retrieved July 5, 2012.
Ecoregions of Arkansas (PDF) (PDF). United States Environmental Protection Agency. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 25, 2017. Retrieved July 5, 2012.
^ Ecological Regions of North America (PDF) (PDF). 1:10000000. United States Environmental Protection Agency. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 25, 2017. Retrieved July 5, 2012.
"Race and Ethnicity in the United States: 2010 Census and 2020 Census". census.gov. United States Census Bureau. August 12, 2021. Retrieved September 26, 2021.
Arkansas's temperate deciduous forest is divided into three broad ecoregions: the Ozark, Ouachita-Appalachian Forests, the Mississippi Alluvial and Southeast USA Coastal Plains, and the Southeastern USA Plains.[55] The state is further divided into seven subregions: the Arkansas Valley, Boston Mountains, Mississippi Alluvial Plain, Mississippi Valley Loess Plain, Ozark Highlands, Ouachita Mountains, and the South Central Plains.[56] A 2010 United States Forest Service survey determined 18,720,000 acres (7,580,000 ha) of Arkansas's land is forestland, or 56% of the state's total area.[57] Dominant species in Arkansas's forests include Quercus (oak), Carya (hickory), Pinus echinata (shortleaf pine) and Pinus taeda (loblolly pine).[58][59]
Pelkki, Matthew H. "An Economic Assessment of Arkansas's Forest Industries: Challenges and Opportunities for the 21st Century" (PDF). University of Arkansas-Monticello School of Forest Resources, Arkansas Forest Resources Center, University of Arkansas Division of Agriculture. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 28, 2012. Retrieved October 4, 2012.
White, Lonnie J. (Autumn 1962). "Arkansas Territorial Indian Affairs". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 21 (3): 193–212. doi:10.2307/40018929. JSTOR 40018929.
As of 2012, Arkansas, as with many Southern states, has a high incidence of premature death, infant mortality, cardiovascular deaths, and occupational fatalities compared to the rest of the United States.[136] The state is tied for 43rd with New York in percentage of adults who regularly exercise.[137] Arkansas is usually ranked as one of the least healthy states due to high obesity, smoking, and sedentary lifestyle rates,[136] but according to a Gallup poll, Arkansas made the most immediate progress in reducing its number of uninsured residents after the Affordable Care Act passed. The percentage of uninsured in Arkansas dropped from 22.5 in 2013 to 12.4 in August 2014.[138]
The 1868 legislature banned former Confederates and passed a more wide-ranging law detailing funding and administrative issues and allowing black children to attend school. In furtherance of this, the postwar 1868 state constitution was the first to permit a personal-property tax to fund the lands and buildings for public schools. With the 1868 elections, the first county school commissioners took office.[164]
Team sports and especially collegiate football are important to Arkansans. College football in Arkansas began from humble beginnings, when the University of Arkansas first fielded a team in 1894. Over the years, many Arkansans have looked to Arkansas Razorbacks football as the public image of the state.[174] Although the University of Arkansas is based in Fayetteville, the Razorbacks have always played at least one game per season at War Memorial Stadium in Little Rock in an effort to keep fan support in central and south Arkansas.
Once a state with a cashless society in the uplands and plantation agriculture in the lowlands, Arkansas's economy has evolved and diversified. The state's gross domestic product (GDP) was $119 billion in 2015.[103] Six Fortune 500 companies are based in Arkansas, including the world's #1 retailer, Walmart; Tyson Foods, J.B. Hunt, Dillard's, Murphy USA, and Windstream are also headquartered in the state.[104] The per capita personal income in 2015 was $39,107, ranking 45th in the nation.[105] The median household income from 2011 to 2015 was $41,371, ranking 49th in the nation.[106] The state's agriculture outputs are poultry and eggs, soybeans, sorghum, cattle, cotton, rice, hogs, and milk. Its industrial outputs are food processing, electric equipment, fabricated metal products, machinery, and paper products. Arkansas's mines produce natural gas, oil, crushed stone, bromine, and vanadium.[107] According to CNBC, Arkansas is the 20th-best state for business, with the 2nd-lowest cost of doing business, 5th-lowest cost of living, 11th-best workforce, 20th-best economic climate, 28th-best-educated workforce, 31st-best infrastructure and the 32nd-friendliest regulatory environment.[citation needed] Arkansas gained 12 spots in the best state for business rankings since 2011.[108] As of 2014, it was the most affordable state to live in.[citation needed]
"2006–2007 Smartest State Award". Morgan Quitno Press. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
Per the 2019 census estimates, Arkansas was 72.0% non-Hispanic white, 15.4% Black or African American, 0.5% American Indian and Alaska Native, 1.5% Asian, 0.4% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, 0.1% some other race, 2.4% two or more races, and 7.7% Hispanic or Latin American of any race.[86] In 2011, the state was 80.1% white (74.2% non-Hispanic white), 15.6% Black or African American, 0.9% American Indian and Alaska Native, 1.3% Asian, and 1.8% from two or more races. Hispanics or Latinos of any race made up 6.6% of the population.[87] As of 2011, 39.0% of Arkansas's population younger than age 1 were minorities.[88]
^ "Arkansas #20". America's Best States for Business 2012. CNBC. 2013. Retrieved May 26, 2013.
"Arkansas". America's Health Rankings. United Health Foundation. 2012. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
^ "Designated Trauma Centers". Arkansas Department of Health. December 17, 2012. Archived from the original on February 11, 2012. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
Transportation in Arkansas is overseen by the Arkansas Department of Transportation (ArDOT), headquartered in Little Rock. Several main corridors pass through Little Rock, including Interstate 30 (I-30) and I-40 (the nation's 3rd-busiest trucking corridor).[116] Arkansas first designated a state highway system in 1924, and first numbered its roads in 1926. Arkansas had one of the first paved roads, the Dollarway Road, and one of the first members of the Interstate Highway System. The state maintains a large system of state highways today, in addition to eight Interstates and 20 U.S. Routes.
^ "Annual Estimates of the Resident Population for the United States, Regions, States, and Puerto Rico: April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2019". 2010-2019 Population Estimates. United States Census Bureau, Population Division. December 30, 2019. Retrieved January 27, 2020.
English, Art; Weberg, Brian (2005). "Term Limits in the Arkansas General Assembly: A Citizen Legislature Responds" (PDF). Joint Project on Term Limits. National Conference of State Legislatures. p. 1. Retrieved February 3, 2013.
As European Americans settled throughout the East Coast and into the Midwest, in the 1830s the United States government forced the removal of many Native American tribes to Arkansas and Indian Territory west of the Mississippi River.
^ "Estimates of Population Change for Metropolitan Statistical Areas and Rankings". United States Census Bureau. July 1, 2010 – July 1, 2011. Archived from the original (XLS) on July 7, 2012. Retrieved July 8, 2012.
In 2010 Arkansas students earned an average score of 20.3 on the ACT exam, just below the national average of 21. These results were expected due to the large increase in the number of students taking the exam since the establishment of the Academic Challenge Scholarship.[151] Top high schools receiving recognition from the U.S. News & World Report are spread across the state, including Haas Hall Academy in Fayetteville, KIPP Delta Collegiate in Helena-West Helena, Bentonville, Rogers, Rogers Heritage, Valley Springs, Searcy, and McCrory.[152] A total of 81 Arkansas high schools were ranked by the U.S. News & World Report in 2012.[153]
^ Bureau, US Census. "Decennial Census by Decades". The United States Census Bureau. Retrieved April 17, 2021.
Smith, Richard M. (1989). The Atlas of Arkansas. The University of Arkansas Press. ISBN 978-1557280473.
Citizens of the state of Kansas often pronounce the Arkansas River as /ɑːrˈkænzəs ˈrɪvər/, in a manner similar to the common pronunciation of the name of their state.
"Graph: Per Capita Personal Income in Arkansas". Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 2015. Retrieved February 19, 2017.
^ "The 2022 Annual Homelessness Assessment Report (AHAR) to Congress" (PDF).
Bolton, S. Charles (Spring 1999). "Slavery and the Defining of Arkansas". The Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 58 (1): 9. doi:10.2307/40026271. JSTOR 40026271.
Eno, Clara B. (Winter 1945). "Territorial Governors of Arkansas". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 4 (4): 278. doi:10.2307/40018362. JSTOR 40018362.
^ Hartgen, David T.; Karanam, M. Gregory; Fields; Kerscher, Travis A. (September 2010). "19th Annual Report on the Performance of State Highway Systems (1984–2008)" (PDF) (PDF). Reason Foundation. p. 46. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022.
Exner, Rich (June 3, 2012). "Americans under age 1 now mostly minorities, but not in Ohio: Statistical Snapshot". The Plain Dealer.
^ "Arkansas K-12 Profile: 2016–2017". Arkansas State Board of Education. Archived from the original on January 21, 2017. Retrieved August 27, 2017.
Arkansas can generally be split into two halves, the highlands in the northwest and the lowlands of the southeast.[41] The highlands are part of the Southern Interior Highlands, including The Ozarks and the Ouachita Mountains. The southern lowlands include the Gulf Coastal Plain and the Arkansas Delta.[42] This split can yield to a regional division into northwest, southwest, northeast, southeast, and central Arkansas. These regions are broad and not defined along county lines. Arkansas has seven distinct natural regions: the Ozark Mountains, Ouachita Mountains, Arkansas River Valley, Gulf Coastal Plain, Crowley's Ridge, and the Arkansas Delta, with Central Arkansas sometimes included as a blend of multiple regions.[43]
When Arkansas applied for statehood, the slavery issue was again raised in Washington, D.C. Congress eventually approved the Arkansas Constitution after a 25-hour session, admitting Arkansas on June 15, 1836, as the 25th state and the 13th slave state, having a population of about 60,000.[30] Arkansas struggled with taxation to support its new state government, a problem made worse by a state banking scandal and worse yet by the Panic of 1837.
"Americans under age 1 now mostly minorities, but not in Ohio: Statistical Snapshot"
Jones, Daniel (1997) English Pronouncing Dictionary, 15th ed. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-45272-4.
"Linguist list 14.4". Listserv.linguistlist.org. February 11, 2003. Archived from the original on December 8, 2008. Retrieved July 30, 2010.
Farrell, Colin (February 2016). "Corporal punishment in US schools". World Corporal Punishment Research. Retrieved April 4, 2016.
"Arkansas's ACT score slips in 2010". Arkansas Public School Resource Center. August 18, 2010. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013. Retrieved September 3, 2012.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
"Religion in America: U.S. Religious Data, Demographics and Statistics". Pew Research Center's Religion & Public Life Project. Retrieved June 4, 2021.
1948 University of Arkansas School of Law admits a black student
^ "The Mineral Industry of Arkansas" (PDF). 2008 Minerals Yearbook. United States Geological Survey. August 2011. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 9, 2022. Retrieved September 11, 2012.
^ "Quality Counts 2009—State Report Cards—Education Week". edweek.org. January 8, 2009.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Mag". NGS Data Sheet. National Geodetic Survey, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, United States Department of Commerce. Retrieved October 20, 2011.
^ William D. Baker, Minority Settlement in the Mississippi River Counties of the Arkansas Delta, 1870–1930 Archived May 27, 2008, at the Wayback Machine, Arkansas Preservation Commission. Retrieved May 14, 2008
Lyon, Owen (Autumn 1950). "The Trail of the Quapaw". Arkansas Historical Quarterly. 9 (3): 206–7. doi:10.2307/40017228. JSTOR 40017228.
"Annual Estimates of the Population of Metropolitan and Micropolitan Statistical Areas". United States Census Bureau. April 1, 2010 – July 1, 2011. Archived from the original (XLS) on July 7, 2012. Retrieved July 8, 2012.
Educational statistics during the early days are fragmentary and unreliable. Many counties did not submit full reports to the secretary of state, who did double duty as commissioner of common schools. But the percentage of whites over 20 years old who were illiterate was given as:
"Proceedings of the Symposium on Arkansas Forests: A Conference on the Results of the Recent Forest Survey of Arkansas"
"Little Rock Nine—Encyclopedia of Arkansas". Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved August 24, 2007.
^ "The Association of Religion Data Archives | State membership Report". Thearda.com. Archived from the original on December 2, 2013. Retrieved November 7, 2013.
Bush, William V. "History of Bauxite in Arkansas" (PDF). Arkansas Geological Survey. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 17, 2013. Retrieved October 4, 2012.
Following the Brooks-Baxter War, a new state constitution was ratified, re-enfranchising former Confederates and effectively bringing an end to Reconstruction.
Whereas, confusion of practice has arisen in the pronunciation of the name of our state and it is deemed important that the true pronunciation should be determined for use in oral official proceedings.
^ a b "Signal Hill". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey. Retrieved January 2, 2013.
Arkansas's earliest industries were fur trading and agriculture, with development of cotton plantations in the areas near the Mississippi River. They were dependent on slave labor through the American Civil War.[110]
^ "Animals of Arkansas". animalsaroundtheglobe.com. May 2, 2022. Archived from the original on July 1, 2022. Retrieved July 29, 2022.
"Crater of Diamonds: History of diamonds, diamond mining in Arkansas"
"Top Public Schools". College Ranking Lists. U.S. News & World Report. 2014. Retrieved January 26, 2014.
Blagg, Brenda (April 12, 2007). "Lawsuit may go way of Lake View district". DeWitt, Arkansas: Dewitt Era-Enterprise. p. 4A.
^ a b c Holley, Marc J. "Encyclopedia of Arkansas". Education Reform. University of Arkansas. Retrieved August 27, 2017.
Most cases begin in district court, which is subdivided into state district court and local district court. State district courts exercise district-wide jurisdiction over the districts created by the General Assembly, and local district courts are presided over by part-time judges who may privately practice law. 25 state district court judges preside over 15 districts, with more districts created in 2013 and 2017. There are 28 judicial circuits of Circuit Court, with each contains five subdivisions: criminal, civil, probate, domestic relations, and juvenile court. The jurisdiction of the Arkansas Court of Appeals is determined by the Arkansas Supreme Court, and there is no right of appeal from the Court of Appeals to the high court. The Arkansas Supreme Court can review Court of Appeals cases upon application by either a party to the litigation, upon request by the Court of Appeals, or if the Arkansas Supreme Court feels the case should have been initially assigned to it. The twelve judges of the Arkansas Court of Appeals are elected from judicial districts to renewable six-year terms.
^ "White Primary" System Bars Blacks from Politics—1900, The Arkansas News, Old State House, Spring 1987, p.3. Retrieved March 22, 2008. Archived January 15, 2009, at the Wayback Machine
There are four airports with commercial service: Clinton National Airport (formerly Little Rock National Airport or Adams Field), Northwest Arkansas Regional Airport, Fort Smith Regional Airport, and Texarkana Regional Airport, with dozens of smaller airports in the state.
Wilson, William Oscar (August 30, 1918). History of Public School Education in Arkansas; 1900–1918. University of Chicago, Department of Education. p. 7.
^ Ecoregions of Arkansas (PDF) (PDF). United States Environmental Protection Agency. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 25, 2017. Retrieved July 5, 2012.
Fishing has always been popular in Arkansas,[citation needed] and the sport and the state have benefited from the creation of reservoirs across the state. Following the completion of Norfork Dam, the Norfork Tailwater and the White River have become a destination for trout fishers. Several smaller retirement communities such as Bull Shoals, Hot Springs Village, and Fairfield Bay have flourished due to their position on a fishing lake. The National Park Service has preserved the Buffalo National River in its natural state and fly fishers visit it annually.
"White Primary" System Bars Blacks from Politics—1900, The Arkansas News, Old State House, Spring 1987, p.3. Retrieved March 22, 2008. Archived January 15, 2009, at the Wayback Machine
Many politicians were elected to office from the Family, the Southern rights political force in antebellum Arkansas. Residents generally wanted to avoid a civil war. When the Gulf states seceded in early 1861, delegates to a convention called to determine whether Arkansas should secede referred the question back to the voters for a referendum to be held in August.[33] Arkansas did not secede until Abraham Lincoln demanded Arkansas troops be sent to Fort Sumter to quell the rebellion there. On May 6, the members of the state convention, having been recalled by the convention president, voted to terminate Arkansas's membership in the Union and join the Confederate States of America.[33]
In the 1920s the state required all children to attend public schools. The school year was set at 131 days, although some areas were unable to meet that requirement.[146][147]
The region was organized as the Territory of Arkansaw on July 4, 1819, but the territory was admitted to the United States as the state of Arkansas on June 15, 1836. The name was historically pronounced /ˈɑːrkənsɔː/, /ɑːrˈkænzəs/, and several other variants. The residents of Arkansas have called themselves either "Arkansans" or "Arkansawyers". In 1881, the Arkansas General Assembly passed the following concurrent resolution, now Arkansas Code 1 April 105:[14].mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}Whereas, confusion of practice has arisen in the pronunciation of the name of our state and it is deemed important that the true pronunciation should be determined for use in oral official proceedings.And, whereas, the matter has been thoroughly investigated by the State Historical Society and the Eclectic Society of Little Rock, which have agreed upon the correct pronunciation as derived from history, and the early usage of the American immigrants.Be it therefore resolved by both houses of the General Assembly, that the only true pronunciation of the name of the state, in the opinion of this body, is that received by the French from the native Indians and committed to writing in the French word representing the sound. It should be pronounced in three (3) syllables, with the final "s" silent, the "a" in each syllable with the Italian sound, and the accent on the first and last syllables. The pronunciation with the accent on the second syllable with the sound of "a" in "man" and the sounding of the terminal "s" is discouraged by Arkansans. Despite this, the state's name is still frequently mispronounced, especially by non-Americans; in fact, it is spelled in Cyrillic with the ar-KAN-zəs pronunciation.Citizens of the state of Kansas often pronounce the Arkansas River as /ɑːrˈkænzəs/, in a manner similar to the common pronunciation of the name of their state.
Following World War II in the 1940s, Arkansas began to diversify its economy and see prosperity. During the 1960s, the state became the base of the Walmart corporation, the world's largest company by revenue, headquartered in Bentonville. In the 21st century, Arkansas's economy is based on service industries, aircraft, poultry, steel, and tourism, along with important commodity crops of cotton, soybeans and rice.
7Government											Toggle Government subsection																					7.1Executive																											7.2Legislative																											7.3Judicial																											7.4Federal																											7.5Politics																											7.6Military																											7.7Taxation
In 2014, the state spent $9,616 per student, compared with a national average of about $11,000 putting Arkansas in nineteenth place.[165]
"19th Annual Report on the Performance of State Highway Systems (1984–2008)"
"Term Limits in the Arkansas General Assembly: A Citizen Legislature Responds"
^ English, Art; Weberg, Brian (2005). "Term Limits in the Arkansas General Assembly: A Citizen Legislature Responds" (PDF). Joint Project on Term Limits. National Conference of State Legislatures. pp. 33–34. Retrieved February 3, 2013.
And, whereas, the matter has been thoroughly investigated by the State Historical Society and the Eclectic Society of Little Rock, which have agreed upon the correct pronunciation as derived from history, and the early usage of the American immigrants.
Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the Damascus Accident, and the Illusion of Safety
Between 1905 and 1911, Arkansas began to receive a small immigration of German, Slovak, and Scots-Irish from Europe. The German and Slovak peoples settled in the eastern part of the state known as the Prairie, and the Irish founded small communities in the southeast part of the state. The Germans were mostly Lutheran and the Slovaks were primarily Catholic. The Irish were mostly Protestant from Ulster, of Scots and Northern Borders descent. Some early 20th-century immigration included people from eastern Europe. Together, these immigrants made the Delta more diverse than the rest of the state. In the same years, some black migrants moved into the area because of opportunities to develop the bottomlands and own their own property.
Hudson, Charles M. (1997). Knights of Spain, Warriors of the Sun. University of Georgia Press. pp. 341–351. ISBN 9780820318882.
C. Dennis Schick, "Mass Media", Encyclopedia of Arkansas, Central Arkansas Library System, retrieved March 24, 2017
^ "Biggest US Cities By Population—Arkansas—2017 Populations". United States Census Bureau. Retrieved March 2, 2019.
"Arkansas Economy at a Glance". www.bls.gov. Retrieved October 31, 2021.
Deblack, Thomas A. With Fire and Sword: Arkansas, 1861–1874 (2003)
"The Association of Religion Data Archives | State membership Report"
"Arkansas Smoking Ban". KLRT-TV. July 22, 2006. Archived from the original on May 17, 2013. Retrieved January 21, 2013.
1983 Arkansas State Supreme Court rules that the state's funding of education is Constitutionally deficient[149]
"Arkansas K-12 Profile: 2016–2017". Arkansas State Board of Education. Archived from the original on January 21, 2017. Retrieved August 27, 2017.
Like most other Southern states, Arkansas is part of the Bible Belt and predominantly Protestant. The largest denominations by number of adherents in 2010 were the Southern Baptist Convention with 661,382; the United Methodist Church with 158,574; non-denominational Evangelical Protestants with 129,638; the Catholic Church with 122,662; and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints with 31,254. Some residents of the state have other religions, such as Islam, Judaism, Wicca/Paganism, Hinduism, Buddhism, and some have no religious affiliation.[100]
Public transit and community transport services for the elderly or those with developmental disabilities are provided by agencies such as the Central Arkansas Transit Authority and the Ozark Regional Transit, organizations that are part of the Arkansas Transit Association.
Later explorers included the French Jacques Marquette and Louis Jolliet in 1673, and Frenchmen Robert La Salle and Henri de Tonti in 1681.[18][19] Tonti established Arkansas Post at a Quapaw village in 1686, making it the first European settlement in the territory.[20] The early Spanish or French explorers of the state gave it its name, which is probably a phonetic spelling of the Illinois tribe's name for the Quapaw people, who lived downriver from them.[21][c] The name Arkansas has been pronounced and spelled in a variety of fashions. The region was organized as the Territory of Arkansaw on July 4, 1819, with the territory admitted to the United States as the state of Arkansas on June 15, 1836. The name was historically /ˈɑːrkənsɔː/, /ɑːrˈkænzəs/, and several other variants. Historically and modernly, the people of Arkansas call themselves either "Arkansans" or "Arkansawyers". In 1881, the Arkansas General Assembly passed Arkansas Code 1-4-105 (official text):
Slavery became a wedge issue in Arkansas, forming a geographic divide that remained for decades. Owners and operators of the cotton plantation economy in southeast Arkansas firmly supported slavery, as they perceived slave labor as the best or "only" economically viable method of harvesting their commodity crops.[26] The "hill country" of northwest Arkansas was unable to grow cotton and relied on a cash-scarce, subsistence farming economy.[27]
^ Greenberg, Dan. "The Dangers of Diluting Term Limits". Arkansas Policy Center. Retrieved February 3, 2012.
^ Wilson, William Oscar (August 30, 1918). History of Public School Education in Arkansas; 1900–1918. University of Chicago, Department of Education. p. 8.
Peirce, Neal R. The Deep South States of America: People, Politics, and Power in the Seven Deep South States (1974).
Arkansas borders Louisiana to the south, Texas to the southwest, Oklahoma to the west, Missouri to the north, and Tennessee and Mississippi to the east. The United States Census Bureau classifies Arkansas as a southern state, sub-categorized among the West South Central States.[9] The Mississippi River forms most of its eastern border, except in Clay and Greene counties, where the St. Francis River forms the western boundary of the Missouri Bootheel, and in many places where the channel of the Mississippi has meandered (or been straightened by man) from its original 1836 course.[citation needed]
English, Art; Weberg, Brian (2005). "Term Limits in the Arkansas General Assembly: A Citizen Legislature Responds" (PDF). Joint Project on Term Limits. National Conference of State Legislatures. pp. 33–34. Retrieved February 3, 2013.
Wilson, William Oscar (August 30, 1918). History of Public School Education in Arkansas; 1900–1918. University of Chicago, Department of Education. p. 3.
^ Griffee, Carol. "Odyssey of Survival, A History of the Arkansas Conservation Sales Tax" (PDF). p. 10. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 17, 2013. Retrieved September 16, 2012.
MacPherson, William (31 March 1990). "Practical concerns spelled the end for -our". Ottawa Citizen. p. B3.
eavestrough: rain gutter. Also used, especially in the past, in the Northern and Western United States; the first recorded usage is in Herman Melville's Moby-Dick: "The tails tapering down that way, serve to carry off the water, d'ye see. Same with cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end eave-troughs[sic], Flask."[97]
Residents of the Golden Horseshoe (including the Greater Toronto Area) are known to merge the second /t/ with the /n/ in Toronto, pronouncing the name variously as [toˈɹɒɾ̃o], [təˈɹɒɾ̃o] or even [ˈtɹɒɾ̃o] or [ˈtɹɒɾ̃ə]. This is not unique to Toronto; Atlanta is often pronounced "Atlanna" by residents. In the Greater Toronto Area, the th sound /ð/ is sometimes pronounced [d]. Sometimes /ð/ is elided altogether, resulting in "Do you want this one er'iss one?" The word southern is often pronounced with [aʊ]. In the area north of the Regional Municipality of York and south of Parry Sound, notably among those who were born in the surrounding communities, the cutting down of syllables and consonants often heard, e.g. "probably" is reduced to "prolly" or "probly" when used as a response. In Greater Toronto, the diphthong tends to be fronted (as a result the word about is pronounced as [əˈbɛʊt]). The Greater Toronto Area is diverse linguistically, with 43 percent of its people having a mother tongue other than English.[59] As a result Toronto English has distinctly more variability than Inland Canada.[60]
^ Butler, Colin (24 August 2016). "Southwestern Ontario accent to be documented in study". CBC.
"Fire hall – Definition from the Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary". www.merriam-webster.com. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 13 August 2010. Retrieved 19 November 2019.
The equivalent of an American district attorney, meaning the barrister representing the state in criminal proceedings, is called a crown attorney (in Ontario), crown counsel (in British Columbia), crown prosecutor or the crown, on account of Canada's status as a constitutional monarchy in which the Crown is the locus of state power.
Canadian usage: Margery Fee and Janice McAlpine, Guide to Canadian English Usage (Toronto: Oxford University Press, 2001).
Ontario (with Northwestern Ontario a transition zone with the West)
What Americans call Canadian bacon is named back bacon in Canada, or, if it is coated in cornmeal or ground peas, cornmeal bacon or peameal bacon.
Dave VE7CNV's Truly Canadian Dictionary of Canadian Spelling – comparisons of Canadian English, American English, British English, French, and Spanish
In the 1990s, Canadian newspapers began to adopt the British spelling variants such as -our endings, notably with The Globe and Mail changing its spelling policy in October 1990.[45] Other Canadian newspapers adopted similar changes later that decade, such as the Southam newspaper chain's conversion in September 1998.[46] The Toronto Star adopted this new spelling policy in September 1997 after that publication's ombudsman discounted the issue earlier in 1997.[44][47] The Star had always avoided using recognized Canadian spelling, citing the Gage Canadian Dictionary in their defence. Controversy around this issue was frequent. When the Gage Dictionary finally adopted standard Canadian spelling, the Star followed suit. Some publishers, e.g. Maclean's, continue to prefer American spellings.
^ Dollinger, Stefan (ed.-in-chief), Laurel J. Brinton and Margery Fee (eds). 2013. DCHP-1 Online: A Dictionary of Canadianisms on Historical Principles Online Archived 23 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine. Based on Walter S. Avis et al. (1967). Vancouver, BC: University of British Columbia.
Members of the Liberal Party of Canada or a provincial Liberal party are sometimes referred to as Grits. Historically, the term comes from the phrase Clear Grit, used in Victorian times in Canada to denote an object of quality or a truthful person. The term was assumed as a nickname by Liberals by the 1850s.
The first Canadian dictionaries of Canadian English were edited by Walter Spencer Avis and published by Gage Ltd. The Beginner's Dictionary (1962), the Intermediate Dictionary (1964) and, finally, the Senior Dictionary (1967) were milestones in Canadian English lexicography. In November 1967 A Dictionary of Canadianisms on Historical Principles (DCHP) was published and completed the first edition of Gage's Dictionary of Canadian English Series. The DCHP documents the historical development of Canadian English words that can be classified as "Canadianisms". It therefore includes words such as mukluk, Canuck, and bluff, but does not list common core words such as desk, table or car. Many secondary schools in Canada use the graded dictionaries. The dictionaries have regularly been updated since: the Senior Dictionary, edited by Robert John Gregg,[48] was renamed Gage Canadian Dictionary. Its fifth edition was printed beginning in 1997. Gage was acquired by Thomson Nelson around 2003. The latest editions were published in 2009 by HarperCollins. On 17 March 2017 a second edition of DCHP, the online Dictionary of Canadianisms on Historical Principles 2 (DCHP-2), was published. DCHP-2 incorporates the c. 10 000 lexemes from DCHP-1 and adds c. 1 300 novel meanings or 1 002 lexemes to the documented lexicon of Canadian English.
Dollinger, Stefan (2008). "New-Dialect Formation in Canada". Amsterdam: Benjamins, ISBN 9789027231086. p. 25.
^ a b Canada, Government of Canada, Statistics. "Census Data Navigator". 12.statcan.ca. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
^ "Bartleby.com: Great Books Online -- Quotes, Poems, Novels, Classics and hundreds more". Archived from the original on 18 February 2007.
ABM, bank machine: synonymous with ATM (which is also used, but much more widely than ABM by financial organizations in the country).[90][91][92][93]
^ Safety, Government of Canada, Transport Canada, Safety and Security, Rail. "Grade Crossing Safety". tc.gc.ca. Archived from the original on 29 January 2017. Retrieved 24 January 2017.
"New data for an English usage puzzle: the long history of spelling variation in Canadian English and its linguistic implications"
Cot–caught merger in effect, but toward a central vowel [ɑ̈].
Organizing Our Marvellous Neighbours: How to Feel Good About Canadian English
The literature has for a long time conflated the notions of Standard Canadian English (StCE) and regional variation. While some regional dialects are close to Standard Canadian English, they are not identical to it. To the untrained ear, for instance, a BC middle-class speaker from a rural setting may sound like Standard Canadian English, but, given Chambers' definition, such a person, because of the rural provenance, would not be included in the accepted definition (see the previous section). The Atlas of North American English, while being the best source for US regional variation, is not a good source for Canadian regional variation, as its analysis is based on only 33[53] Canadian speakers. Boberg's (2005, 2008) studies offer the best data for the delimitation of dialect zones. The results for vocabulary[54] and phonetics[55] overlap to a great extent, which has allowed the proposal of dialect zones. Dollinger and Clarke[56] distinguish between:
Richard Gwyn, John A.: The Man Who Made Us, ([Place of publication not listed]: Random House Canada), 2007, pp. 3–4.
"Definition of SERVIETTE". merriam-webster.com. Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 17 August 2017.
pogie or pogey: term referring to unemployment insurance, which is now officially called Employment Insurance in Canada. Derived from the use of pogey as a term for a poorhouse.[101] Not used for welfare, in which case the term is "the dole", as in "he's on the dole, eh?".
The humidex is a measurement used by meteorologists to reflect the combined effect of heat and humidity (vs. US term heat index quantifying the apparent temperature).
cheezies: cheese puffs. The name is a genericized trademark based on a brand of crunchy cheese snack sold in Canada.
"Uniquely Canadian, Eh? Archived 2017-10-21 at the Wayback Machine" Review of Barber, Katherine by Stefan Dollinger. 2007. Only in Canada You Say: A Treasury of Canadian Language. Oxford University Press.
A contemporary reference for formal Canadian spelling is the spelling used for Hansard transcripts of the Parliament of Canada (see The Canadian Style in Further reading below). Many Canadian editors, though, use the Canadian Oxford Dictionary, often along with the chapter on spelling in Editing Canadian English, and, where necessary (depending on context), one or more other references. (See Further reading below.)
According to the Canadian Oxford Dictionary (second edition), garburator is "Canadian" and garbage disposal is "North American."
"Canadian English Archived 2016-06-10 at the Wayback Machine." Brinton, Laurel J., and Fee, Marjery, ed. (2005). Ch. 12. in The Cambridge history of the English language. Volume VI: English in North America., Algeo, John, ed., pp. 422–440. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992.ISBN 978-0-521-26479-2. On p. 422: "It is now generally agreed that Canadian English originated as a variant of northern American English (the speech of New England, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania)."
^ "Definition of SERVIETTE". merriam-webster.com. Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 17 August 2017.
Lilles, Jaan (April 2000). "The myth of Canadian English". English Today. 16 (2): 3–9. doi:10.1017/S0266078400011548. S2CID 145665089.
Canadian universities publish calendars or schedules, not catalogs as in the US. Canadian students write or take exams (in the US, students generally "take" exams while teachers "write" them); they rarely sit them (standard British usage). Those who supervise students during an exam are sometimes called invigilators as in Britain, or sometimes proctors as in the US; usage may depend on the region or even the individual institution.[75]
Canadians and Americans themselves often have trouble differentiating their own two accents, particularly when someone speaks with an urban Standard Canadian English accent because it sounds very similar to Western American English. There is also evidence that Standard Canadian English and Western American English have been undergoing a very similar vowel shift since the 1980s.[14] Canadian English varies very little from Central Canada to British Columbia. But, some noticeably different accents can be found in the Atlantic provinces, most especially in Newfoundland with Newfoundland English. Accent differences can sometimes be heard between those who live in urban centres versus those living in rural settings.[15]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"History of Braille (UEB)". Braille Literacy Canada. 2016. Retrieved 2 January 2017.
In 1998, Oxford University Press produced a Canadian English dictionary, after five years of lexicographical research, entitled The Oxford Canadian Dictionary. A second edition, retitled The Canadian Oxford Dictionary, was published in 2004. Just as the older dictionaries it includes uniquely Canadian words and words borrowed from other languages, and surveyed spellings, such as whether colour or color was the more popular choice in common use. Paperback and concise versions (2005, 2006), with minor updates, are available.
A railway or highway crossing overhead is an overpass or underpass, depending on which part of the crossing is referred to (the two are used more or less interchangeably); the British term flyover is sometimes used in Ontario, and in the Maritimes as well as on occasion in the prairies (such as the 4th avenue flyover in Calgary, Alberta), subway is also used.[citation needed]
Dollinger, Stefan. (2008)."New-Dialect Formation in Canada." Amsterdam: Benjamins, 978 90 272 31068 6. p. 279."
Lambrecht, Kirk N (1991). The Administration of Dominion Lands, 1870-1930.
^ "ATM and Banking Centre Network | CIBC". www.cibc.com. Retrieved 29 July 2018.
Descendants of marriages between Hudson's Bay Company workers of mainly Scottish descent and Cree women spoke Bungi, a creole that blends Cree and English. A few Bungi speakers can still be found in Manitoba. It is marked by no masculine, feminine or third-person pronouns.[50]
Fruehwald, Josef; Myler, Neil (2015). "I'm done my homework—Case assignment in a stative passive". Linguistic Variation, 15(2), Section 3.1.1.
Dollinger, Stefan (2019). "Creating Canadian English: the Professor, the Mountaineer, and a National Variety of English". Cambridge University Press. Cambridge, UK: 26.
"Why Do Canadians Say 'Eh'?: The story behind Canada's most distinctive verbal tic"
New-Dialect Formation in Canada: Evidence from the English Modal Auxiliaries 1776–1849
^ "Done My Homework". Yale Grammatical Diversity Project English in North America. Yale University. 2017.
"Pogey: What Does it Mean? Bonny, 2006" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 August 2011. Retrieved 26 February 2011.
"The Written Questionnaire in Social Dialectology: History, Theory, Practice. Amsterdam/Philadelphia"
^ "Where is Back East?". Geist. 3 August 2016. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
Boberg, Charles (2005). "The North American Regional Vocabulary Survey: New variables and methods in the study of North American English". American Speech. 80 (1): 22–60. doi:10.1215/00031283-80-1-22.
"Bartleby.com: Great Books Online -- Quotes, Poems, Novels, Classics and hundreds more"
Members of the New Democratic Party (NDP) are sometimes nicknamed dippers (a clipped and altered form of NDPer) or New Democrats
Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary, eavestrough; Oxford English Dictionary; American Heritage Dictionary.
In Alberta, the generic Trail is often used to describe a freeway, expressway or major urban street (for example, Deerfoot Trail, Macleod Trail or Crowchild Trail in Calgary, Yellowhead Trail, Victoria Trail or Mark Messier/St.Albert Trail in Edmonton). The British term motorway is not used. The American terms turnpike and tollway for a toll road are not common. The term throughway or thruway was used for first tolled limited-access highways (for example, the Deas Island Throughway, now Highway 99, from Vancouver, BC, to Blaine, Washington, USA or the Saint John Throughway (Highway 1) in Saint John, NB), but this term is not common anymore. In everyday speech, when a particular roadway is not being specified, the term highway is generally or exclusively used.
quiggly hole and/or quiggly: the depression in the ground left by a kekuli or pithouse. Groups of them are called "quiggly hole towns". Used in the BC Interior only.
washroom:[88] the general term for what is normally named public toilet or lavatory in Britain. In the United States (where it originated) the word was mostly replaced by restroom in the 20th century. Generally used only as a technical or commercial term outside of Canada. The word bathroom is also used.
^ "Uniquely Canadian, Eh? Archived 2017-10-21 at the Wayback Machine" Review of Barber, Katherine by Stefan Dollinger. 2007. Only in Canada You Say: A Treasury of Canadian Language. Oxford University Press.
Dollinger, Stefan. 2012. Canadian English in real-time perspective Archived 16 June 2017 at the Wayback Machine. In: English Historical Linguistics: An International Handbook. Vol. II. (HSK 34.2), ed. by Alexander Bergs & Laurel Brinton, 1858–1880. Berlin, New York: Mouton de Gruyter. UPDATED version, for 2017, is found here: https://www.academia.edu/35010966/Varieties_of_English_Canadian_English_in_real-time_perspective_2017_updated_version_of_2012_paper_
^ Stefan (2016). "English in Canada". Handbook of World Englishes (2nd ed.). Wiley-Blackwell. Retrieved 6 April 2016.
In 1997, the ITP Nelson Dictionary of the Canadian English Language was another product, but has not been updated since.
Nonetheless, US units are still used in many situations. Imperial volumes are also used, albeit very rarely—although many Canadians and Americans mistakenly conflate the measurement systems despite their slight differences from each other.
^ English (Canada) at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)
^ Hannay, Chris (1 January 2016). "Tory MP's bill seeks to clarify how dates are written in legal proceedings". The Globe and Mail. Retrieved 29 March 2018.
Dollinger, Stefan (2010). "New data for an English usage puzzle: the long history of spelling variation in Canadian English and its linguistic implications". 19th International Conference on the History of the English Language, Pécs, Hungary, Paper Presented on 26 Aug. 2010. Retrieved 17 March 2016.
serviette, especially in Eastern Canada, for a paper table napkin.[89]
"'Double-double'? Now you can look it up". CBC News. 30 June 2004. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
^ Elango, Vidhya; Denis, Derek. "Variable BAN-laxing in Multicultural Toronto English" (PDF). (CLA) Canadian Linguistic Association. Archived (PDF) from the original on 29 July 2021.
Doubletongued.org Archived 22 November 2008 at the Wayback Machine, reference for gonch.
^ Dollinger, Stefan (2010). "New data for an English usage puzzle: the long history of spelling variation in Canadian English and its linguistic implications". 19th International Conference on the History of the English Language, Pécs, Hungary, Paper Presented on 26 Aug. 2010. Retrieved 17 March 2016.
Denis, Derek (5 October 2016). "A note on mans in Toronto". Toronto Working Papers in Linguistics. 37. doi:10.33137/twpl.v37i0.26973.
In the Maritimes, a Caper or "Cape Bretoner" is someone from Cape Breton Island, a Bluenoser is someone with a thick, usually southern Nova Scotia accent or as a general term for a Nova Scotian (including Cape Bretoners), while an Islander is someone from Prince Edward Island (the same term is used in British Columbia for people from Vancouver Island, or the numerous islands along it). A Haligonian refers to someone from the city of Halifax.
Dollinger, Stefan. "English in Canada". Academia.edu. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
Expressway may also refer to a limited-access road that has control of access but has at-grade junctions, railway crossings (for example, the Harbour Expressway in Thunder Bay.) Sometimes the term Parkway is also used (for example, the Hanlon Parkway in Guelph). In Saskatchewan, the term 'grid road' is used to refer to minor highways or rural roads, usually gravel, referring to the 'grid' upon which they were originally designed. In Quebec, freeways and expressways are called autoroutes.
porch climber: moonshine or homemade alcohol. Porch climber has a slightly distinguished meaning in Ontario where it refers to a beverage mixed of beer, vodka, and lemonade.
Grammar to go: the portable A-Zed guide to Canadian usage
"Creating Canadian English: the Professor, the Mountaineer, and a National Variety of English"
^ "Canadian English Archived 2016-06-10 at the Wayback Machine." Brinton, Laurel J., and Fee, Marjery, ed. (2005). Ch. 12. in The Cambridge history of the English language. Volume VI: English in North America., Algeo, John, ed., pp. 422–440. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992.ISBN 978-0-521-26479-2. On p. 422: "It is now generally agreed that Canadian English originated as a variant of northern American English (the speech of New England, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania)."
^ Canada, Financial Consumer Agency of (8 June 2018). "ATM fees - Canada.ca". www.canada.ca. Retrieved 29 July 2018.
Canadian Raising: O'Grady and Dobrovolsky, Contemporary Linguistic Analysis: An Introduction, 3rd ed., pp. 67–68.
^ "Labov, Ash, Boberg. 2006. The Atlas of North American English. Berlin: Mouton, ch. 15.
^ Don J. DeVoretz (2011). "Canada's Secret Province: 2.8 Million Canadians Abroad". Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada. Archived from the original on 27 September 2013. Retrieved 23 September 2013.
^ Brooke, Marisa & Tagliamonte, Sali, (2016) Why Does Canadian English Use Try To But British English Use Try And? Let's Try And/To Figure It Out, University of Toronto
Similarly the word pissed can refer either to being drunk (as in Britain), or being angry (as in the US), though anger is more often said as pissed off, while piss drunk or pissed up is said to describe inebriation (though piss drunk is sometimes also used in the US, especially in the northern states).
Second Edition of A Dictionary of Canadianisms on Historical Principles
In the early 20th century, western Canada was largely populated by farmers from Central and Eastern Europe who were not anglophones.[16] At the time, most anglophones there were re-settlers from Ontario or Quebec who had British, Irish and/or Loyalist ancestry.[17] Throughout the 20th century, the prairies underwent anglicization and linguistic homogenization through education and exposure to Canadian and American media.
One of the other distinctions between Canadian English and British English is the use of the phrase "try to + infinitive" versus the use of the phrase "try and + infinitive". Canadian English uses "try to" while British English uses "try and". Originally, the distinction did not exist, but through the evolution of the French term trier, meaning to 'sort', into the English try, a number of meanings were adopted along the way, including 'attempt'. Canadian English speakers use "try and" 30% of the time while British English speakers use it 73% of the time. Since the 2000s, the two terms have had equally frequent usage in British English.[122]
gas bar: a filling station (gas station) with a central island, having pumps under a fixed metal or concrete awning.
Find sources: "Canadian English" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ Grue, Dustin (2013). "Testing Canada's 'honour': Does orthography index ideology?". Strathy Student Working Papers on Canadian English. Archived from the original on 26 March 2016. Retrieved 17 March 2016.
Sometimes the gym doesn't fix it Archived 12 November 2011 at the Wayback Machine, The Irish Times, Tuesday, 6 January 2009
Canadians measure property, both residential and commercial, floor areas are in square feet or square metres, property is in square feet, square metres, acres or hectares[clarification needed]. Fuel efficiency is less frequently discussed in miles per US gallon, more often the metric L/100 km despite gasoline being sold by the litre. The Letter paper size of 8.5 inches × 11 inches is used instead of the international and metric equivalent A4 size of 210 mm × 297 mm. Beer cans are 355 mL (12 US oz), while beer bottles are typically 341 mL (12 Imperial oz), and draft beer is sold in various units; US or Imperial oz, US or Imperial pint, or occasionally mL.
Depending on the region, large trucks used to transport and deliver goods are referred to as 'transport trucks' (e.g., used in Ontario and Alberta) or 'transfer trucks' (e.g., used in Prince Edward Island)
I'm done my homework—Case assignment in a stative passive". Linguistic Variation, 15(2), Section 3.1.1.
^ Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary, eavestrough; Oxford English Dictionary; American Heritage Dictionary.
"Dynamique des langues en quelques chiffres : Tableaux – Secrétariat à la politique linguistique"
"Academic and public attitudes to the notion of 'standard' Canadian English"
Dollinger, Stefan (2000).Ogilvie, Sarah (ed.). Cambridge Companion to English Dictionaries. Cambridge University Press. pp. Section 2. doi:10.13140/RG.2.2.21497.36969.
Dollinger, Stefan; Clarke, Sandra (2012). "On the autonomy and homogeneity of Canadian English". World Englishes. 31 (4): 449–466. doi:10.1111/j.1467-971X.2012.01773.x.
Studies on earlier forms of English in Canada are rare, yet connections with other work to historical linguistics can be forged. An overview of diachronic work on Canadian English, or diachronically relevant work, is Dollinger (2012, updated to 2017).[30] Until the 2000s, basically all commentators on the history of CanE have argued from the "language-external" history, i.e. social and political history.[31][32] An exception has been in the area of lexis, where Avis et al.'s 1967 Dictionary of Canadianisms on Historical Principles offered real-time historical data through its quotations. Recently, historical linguists have started to study earlier Canadian English with historical linguistic data. DCHP-1 is now available in open access.[33] Most notably, Dollinger (2008) pioneered the historical corpus linguistic approach for English in Canada with CONTE (Corpus of Early Ontario English, 1776–1849) and offers a developmental scenario for 18th- and 19th-century Ontario. Recently, Reuter (2015),[34] with a 19th-century newspaper corpus from Ontario, has confirmed the scenario laid out in Dollinger (2008).
A railway at-grade junction can be called a level crossing, as well as the term grade crossing, which is commonly used in the US.[78]
Oxford Press; Barber, Katherine (2001). The Canadian Oxford Dictionary. Toronto, Ontario: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-541731-9.
Boberg, Charles, Sounding Canadian from Coast to Coast: Regional accents in Canadian English, McGill University.
Labov, William; Ash, Sharon; and Boberg, Charles. The Atlas of North American English: Phonetics, Phonology, and Sound Change. Walter de Gruyter, 2006, p. 216: "In general, the English spoken in the Canadian North can be viewed as a dialect in formation ... The region's European population is too sparsely settled, too diverse in origin, and too recently arrived to have produced an identifiable, homogeneous dialect distinct from southern Canadian English, while its large Aboriginal population speaks a range of varieties influenced by non-English substrates ..."
^ a b c American Speech 80.1 (2005), p. 48.
snye, a side-stream channel that rejoins a larger river, creating an island.
^ Richard Gwyn, John A.: The Man Who Made Us, ([Place of publication not listed]: Random House Canada), 2007, pp. 3–4.
"Canadian English." McArthur, T., ed. (2005). Concise Oxford companion to the English language, pp. 96–102. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-280637-8. On p. 97: "Because Canadian English and American English are so alike, some scholars have argued that in linguistic terms Canadian English is no more or less than a variety of (Northern) American English.
Western Canadian English describes the English spoken in the four most western provinces—British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba. British Columbia, in particular is a sub-zone on the lexical level.
Hamilton, Sandra A. M. (1997) Canadianisms and their treatment in dictionaries, Thesis (M.A.), University of Ottawa, ISBN 978-0-612-19968-2
Boberg, Charles (2005). "The North American Regional Vocabulary Survey: Renewing the study of lexical variation in North American English." American Speech 80/1. Dukejournals.org
Unlike in the United States, use of metric units within a majority of (but not all) industries is standard in Canada, as a result of the partial national adoption of the metric system during the mid-to-late 1970s that was eventually stalled; this has spawned some colloquial usages such as klick for kilometre (as also heard in the US military).
^ Erin Hall "Regional variation in Canadian English vowel backing"
Texas mickey (especially in Saskatchewan, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia; more often a "Saskatchewan mickey" in western Canada): a 3 L (101 US fl oz; 106 imp fl oz) bottle of hard liquor. (Despite the name, Texas mickeys are generally unavailable outside of Canada.)
In the early 2010s, certain words from London slang, Jamaican Patois, and Arabic were incorporated into the local variety of English by Toronto youth, especially in immigrant communities, thus giving rise to Toronto slang.[114][115] These examples included words such as mandem, styll, wallahi, wasteman, and yute.[116][117]
^ a b c "Some Canadians used to speak with a quasi-British accent called Canadian Dainty" Archived 5 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine. CBC News, 1 July 2017.
chesterfield: originally British and internationally used (as in classic furnishing terminology) to refer to a sofa whose arms are the same height as the back, it is a term for any couch or sofa in Canada (and, to some extent, Northern California).[94][95] Once a hallmark of CanE, chesterfield, as with settee and davenport, is now largely in decline among younger generations in the western and central regions.[96] Couch is now the most common term; sofa is also used.
Where Canadian English shares vocabulary with other English dialects, it tends to share most with American English, but also has many non-American terms distinctively shared instead with Britain. British and American terms also can coexist in Canadian English to various extents, sometimes with new nuances in meaning; a classic example is holiday (British) often used interchangeably with vacation (American), though, in Canadian speech, the latter can more narrowly mean a trip elsewhere and the former can mean general time off work.In addition, the vocabulary of Canadian English also features some words that are seldom (if ever) found elsewhere. A good resource for these and other words is the Dictionary of Canadianisms on Historical Principles, which is currently being revised at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, British Columbia. The Canadian public appears to take interest in unique "Canadianisms": words that are distinctively characteristic of Canadian English—though perhaps not exclusive to Canada; there is some disagreement about the extent to which "Canadianism" means a term actually unique to Canada, with such an understanding possibly overstated by the popular media.[12][74] As a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, Canada shares many items of institutional terminology and professional designations with the countries of the former British Empire—for example, constable, for a police officer of the lowest rank, and chartered accountant.
^ "'Double-double'? Now you can look it up". CBC News. 30 June 2004. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
^ "proctor | Definition of proctor in English by Oxford Dictionaries". Oxford Dictionaries | English. Archived from the original on 5 March 2018. Retrieved 5 March 2018.
"Going camping" still refers to staying in a tent in a campground or wilderness area, while "going out to camp" may refer to a summer cottage or home in a rural area. "Going to camp" refers to children's summer camps. In British Columbia, "camp" was used as a reference for certain company towns (for example, Bridge River). It is used in western Canada to refer to logging and mining camps such as Juskatla Camp. It is also a synonym for a mining district; the latter occurs in names such as Camp McKinney and usages such as "Cariboo gold camp" and "Slocan mining camp" for the Cariboo goldfields and Slocan silver-galena mining district, respectively. A "cottage" in British Columbia is generally a small house, perhaps with an English design or flavour, while in southern Ontario it more likely means a second home on a lake. Similarly, "chalet" – originally a term for a small warming hut – can mean a second home of any size, but refers to one located in a ski resort. In Northern Ontario, these second homes tend to be called "camps". In Western Canada, these second homes tend to be called "cabins". A "bunkie" is a secondary building at these second homes that are small enough to require no building permits and house extra guests visiting.
Henry, Alison. 1992. Infinitives in a For-To Dialect. Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 2, 279.
A county in British Columbia means only a regional jurisdiction of the courts and justice system and is not otherwise connected to governance as with counties in other provinces and in the United States. The rough equivalent to "county" as used elsewhere is a "Regional District".
two-four: a case of 24 beers, also known as a case in Eastern Canada, or a flat in Western Canada (referencing that cans of beer are often sold in packages of six, with four packages to a flat box for shipping and stacking purposes).
In the US, the four years of high school are termed the freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior years (terms also used for college years); in Canada, the specific levels are used instead (i.e., "grade nine").[77] As for higher education, only the term freshman (often reduced to frosh) has some currency in Canada.[77] The American usages "sophomore", "junior" and "senior" are not used in Canadian university terminology, or in speech. The specific high-school grades and university years are therefore stated and individualized; for example, the grade 12s failed to graduate; John is in his second year at McMaster. The "first year", "third year" designation also applies to Canadian law school students, as opposed to the common American usage of "1L", "2L" and "3L".[citation needed]
Clarke, Sandra, Ford Elms, and Amani Youssef (1995). "The third dialect of English: Some Canadian evidence", in Language Variation and Change, 7:209–228.
Canadian English raises the diphthong onsets of diphthongs /ai/ and /au/ to /ə, ʌ/ before voiceless segments.[50]
In the southern part of Southwestern Ontario (roughly in the line south from Sarnia to St. Catharines), despite the existence of the many characteristics of West/Central Canadian English, many speakers, especially those under 30, speak a dialect which is influenced by the Inland Northern American English dialect, though there are minor differences such as Canadian raising (e.g. "ice" vs "my").
"Population by mother tongue and age groups, percentage distribution (2006), for Canada, provinces and territories – 20% sample data"
Walt Wolfram and Ben Ward, ed. (2006). American Voices: How Dialects Differ from Coast to Coast. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing. pp. 140, 234–236. ISBN 978-1-4051-2108-8.
^ "Where Does the Word 'Hoser' Come From?". www.mentalfloss.com. 1 July 2016. Retrieved 3 February 2020.
loonie: the Canadian one-dollar coin; derived from the use of the common loon on the reverse. The toonie (less commonly spelled tooney, twooney, twoonie) is the two-dollar coin. Loonie is also used to refer to the Canadian currency, particularly when discussing the exchange rate with the US dollar; loonie and toonie describe coinage specifically. (for example, "I have a dollar in pennies" versus "I have three loonies in my pocket").
West (B.C., Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba; with B.C. a sub-zone on the lexical level)
Canadianisms relating to alcohol:mickey: a 375 mL (12.7 US fl oz; 13.2 imp fl oz) bottle of hard liquor (informally called a pint in the Maritimes and the United States). In Newfoundland, this is almost exclusively referred to as a "flask". In the United States, "mickey", or "Mickey Finn", refers to a drink laced with drugs.two-six, twenty-sixer, twixer: a 750 mL (25 US fl oz; 26 imp fl oz) bottle of hard liquor (called a quart in the Maritimes). The word handle is less common. Similarly, a 1.14 L (39 US fl oz; 40 imp fl oz) bottle of hard liquor is known as a forty and a 1.75 L (59 US fl oz; 62 imp fl oz) bottle is known as a sixty or half gallon in Nova Scotia.Texas mickey (especially in Saskatchewan, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia; more often a "Saskatchewan mickey" in western Canada): a 3 L (101 US fl oz; 106 imp fl oz) bottle of hard liquor. (Despite the name, Texas mickeys are generally unavailable outside of Canada.)two-four: a case of 24 beers, also known as a case in Eastern Canada, or a flat in Western Canada (referencing that cans of beer are often sold in packages of six, with four packages to a flat box for shipping and stacking purposes).six-pack, half-sack, half-case, or poverty-pack: a case of six beers
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"History of Braille (UEB)". Braille Literacy Canada. 2016. Retrieved 2 January 2017.
Standard Canadian English is socially defined. It is the variety spoken, in Chambers' (1998: 252) definition, by Anglophone or multilingual residents, who are second generation or later (i.e. born in Canada) and who live in urban settings.[51] Applying this definition, c. 36% of the Canadian population speak Standard Canadian English in the 2006 population, with 38% in the 2011 census.[52]
"2006 Census : Languages Reference Guide". www12.statcan.ca. Archived from the original on 26 August 2016. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
Grue, Dustin (2013). "Testing Canada's 'honour': Does orthography index ideology?". Strathy Student Working Papers on Canadian English. Archived from the original on 26 March 2016. Retrieved 17 March 2016.
Collishaw, Barbara (2002). "FAQs on Writing the Time of Day". Terminology Update. 35 (3): 11.
The term Tory, used in Britain with a similar meaning, denotes a supporter of the present-day federal Conservative Party of Canada, the historic federal or provincial Progressive Conservative Party. The term Red Tory is also used to denote the more socially liberal wings of the Tory parties. Blue Tory is less commonly used, and refers to more strict fiscal (rather than social) conservatism. The US use of Tory to mean the Loyalists in the time of the American Revolution is not used in Canada,[citation needed] where they are called United Empire Loyalists, or simply Loyalists.
touque (also spelled toque or tuque): a knitted winter hat. A similar hat would be called a beanie in the western United States and a watch cap in the eastern United States, though these forms are generally closer-fitting, and may lack a brim as well as a pompom. There seems to be no exact equivalent outside Canada, since the tuque is of French Canadian origin.
Collishaw, Barbara (2002). "FAQs on Writing the Date". Terminology Update. 35 (2): 12.
Barber, Katherine, editor (2004). Canadian Oxford Dictionary, second edition. Toronto: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-541816-6.
^ a b "Canadian English – Oxford English Dictionary". Public.oed.com. 17 August 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
Canadian English is the product of five waves of immigration and settlement over a period of more than two centuries.[20] The first large wave of permanent English-speaking settlement in Canada, and linguistically the most important, was the influx of Loyalists fleeing the American Revolution, chiefly from the Mid-Atlantic States—as such, Canadian English is believed by some scholars to have derived from northern American English.[21][22] Canadian English has been developing features of its own since the early 19th century.[23][24] The second wave from Britain and Ireland was encouraged to settle in Canada after the War of 1812 by the governors of Canada, who were worried about American dominance and influence among its citizens. Further waves of immigration from around the globe peaked in 1910, 1960 and at the present time had a lesser influence, but they did make Canada a multicultural country, ready to accept linguistic change from around the world during the current period of globalization.[25]
Reuter, David. 2015.Newspaper, politics, and Canadian English: a corpus-based analysis of selected linguistic variables in early nineteenth-century Ontario newspapers. PhD thesis. University of Kiel, Germany.
Ireland, Robert (1979). Canadian spelling. An empirical and historical survey of selected words. Toronto, ON. PhD Thesis: York University. pp. 140–45.
^ "Decisions: Chocolate and Cocoa Products". Canadien Food Inspection Agency. Archived from the original on 27 April 2010. Retrieved 4 June 2012.
Jaan Lilles argues in an essay for English Today that there is no variety of "Canadian English". He acknowledges that no variety of English is more "real" or "natural" than any other, but that, in the words of American linguist John Algeo, "All linguistic varieties are fictions." According to Lilles, Canadian English is simply not a "useful fiction".[130] He goes on to argue that too often national identity is conflated with linguistic identity, and that in the case of "Canadian English", supposedly unique features of Canadian speakers, such as certain lexical terms such as muskeg are artificially exaggerated to distinguish Canadian speech primarily from that found in the United States.[130]
Hannay, Chris (1 January 2016). "Tory MP's bill seeks to clarify how dates are written in legal proceedings". The Globe and Mail. Retrieved 29 March 2018.
One of the most distinctive Canadian phrases is the spoken interrogation or tag eh.[118] The only usage of eh exclusive to Canada, according to the Canadian Oxford Dictionary, is for "ascertaining the comprehension, continued interest, agreement, etc., of the person or persons addressed" as in, "It's four kilometres away, eh, so I have to go by bike." In that case, eh? is used to confirm the attention of the listener and to invite a supportive noise such as mm or oh or okay. This usage is also common in Queensland, Australia and New Zealand. Other uses of eh – for instance, in place of huh? or what? meaning "please repeat or say again" – are also found in parts of the British Isles and Australia. It is common in Northern/Central Ontario, the Maritimes and the Prairie provinces. The word eh is used quite frequently in the North Central dialect, so a Canadian accent is often perceived in people from North Dakota, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin.
"Where is Back East?". Geist. 3 August 2016. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
The term "Canadian English" is first attested in a speech by the Reverend A. Constable Geikie in an address to the Canadian Institute in 1857 (see DCHP-1 Online, s.v. "Canadian English", Avis et al., 1967).[18] Geikie, a Scottish-born Canadian, reflected the Anglocentric attitude that would be prevalent in Canada for the next hundred years when he referred to the language as "a corrupt dialect", in comparison with what he considered the proper English spoken by immigrants from Britain.[19]
^ Gagnon, Erica, Collections Researcher "Archived (Date missing) at pier21.ca (Error: unknown archive URL)". Pier 21 Museum.
North American English prefers have got to have to denote possession or obligation (as in I've got a car vs. I have a car); Canadian English differs from American English in tending to eschew plain got (I got a car), which is a common third option in very informal US English.[67]
Barber, Katherine, ed. (1998). The Canadian Oxford Dictionary (1st ed.). Toronto: Oxford University Press. pp. 1075. ISBN 978-0-19-541120-1.
^ Doubletongued.org Archived 22 November 2008 at the Wayback Machine, reference for gonch.
Adams, Rob Colter (2005), Grammar to go: the portable A-Zed guide to Canadian usage, House of Anansi Press, ISBN 978-0-88784-723-3
^ Collishaw, Barbara (2002). "FAQs on Writing the Date". Terminology Update. 35 (2): 12.
dressing gown or housecoat or bathrobe: a dressing gown and house coat can be of silk or cotton, usually an attractive outer layer, while a bathrobe is made of absorbent fabric like a towel.in the United States, called a bathrobe.
Scargill, Matthew H. 1957. Sources of Canadian English. Journal of English and Germanic Philology 56: 611-614
Northern Ontario English has several distinct qualities stemming from its large Franco-Ontarian population. As a result several French and English words are used interchangeably. A number of phrases and expressions may also be found in Northern Ontario that are not present in the rest of the province,[113] such as the use of camp for a summer home where Southern Ontario speakers would idiomatically use cottage.
Butler, Colin (24 August 2016). "Southwestern Ontario accent to be documented in study". CBC.
^ Bloomfield, Morton W. 1948. Bloomfield, Morton W. 1948. Canadian English and its relation to eighteenth century American speech. Journal of English and Germanic Philology 47: 59-66
rancherie: the residential area of a First Nation reserve, used in BC only.
^ Utoronto.ca Archived 12 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine J.K. Chambers, "The Canada-U.S. border as a vanishing isogloss: the evidence of chesterfield." Journal of English Linguistics 23 (1995): 156-66.
Visible Minority Population and Population Group Reference Guide, 2006 Census
Marmen, Louise and Corbeil, Jean-Pierre, "New Canadian Perspectives, Languages in Canada 2001 Census," Library and Archives Canada Cataloguing in Publication, Statistics Canada Cat. No. Ch3-2/8-2004, (Canadian Heritage, 2004), pg. 60.
"The Crazy Canucks: Canada's Skiing Heroes". Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. Retrieved 25 September 2012.
The grammatical construction "be done something" means roughly "have/has finished something". For example, "I am done my homework" and "The dog is done dinner" are genuine sentences in this dialect, respectively meaning "I have finished my homework" and "The dog has finished dinner". Another example, "Let's start after you're done all the coffee", means "Let's start after you've finished all the coffee". This is not exactly the same as the standard construction "to be done with something", since "She is done the computer" can only mean "She is done with the computer" in one sense: "She has finished (building) the computer".[68][69]
Stefan (2016). "English in Canada". Handbook of World Englishes (2nd ed.). Wiley-Blackwell. Retrieved 6 April 2016.
This page was last edited on 1 March 2023, at 01:30 (UTC).
The languages of Aboriginal peoples in Canada started to influence European languages used in Canada even before widespread settlement took place,[26] and the French of Lower Canada provided vocabulary, with words such as toque and portage,[8] to the English of Upper Canada.[19]
The flapping of intervocalic /t/ and /d/ to alveolar tap [ɾ] between vowels, as well as pronouncing it as a glottal stop [ʔ], is less common in the Maritimes. Therefore, battery is pronounced [ˈbætɹi] instead of [ˈbæɾ(ɨ)ɹi].
Many people in Montreal distinguish between words like marry versus merry and parish versus perish,[11] which are homophones to most other speakers of Canadian English. Quebec Anglophones generally pronounce French street names in Montreal as French words. Pie IX Boulevard is pronounced as in French: not as "pie nine" but as /ˌpiːˈnʊf/ pee-NUUF (compare French /pi.nœf/). On the other hand, Anglophones pronounce the final d as in Bernard and Bouchard; the word Montreal is pronounced as an English word and Rue Lambert-Closse is known as Clossy Street (vs French /klɔs/). In the city of Montreal, especially in some of the western suburbs like Côte-St-Luc and Hampstead, there is a strong Jewish influence in the English spoken in those areas. A large wave of Jewish immigration from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union before and after World War II is also evident today. Their English has a strong Yiddish influence, and there are some similarities to English spoken in New York. Words used mainly in Quebec and especially in Montreal are:[63] stage for "apprenticeship" or "internship", copybook for a notebook, dépanneur or dep for a convenience store, and guichet for an ABM/ATM. It is also common for Anglophones, particularly those of Greek or Italian descent, to use translated French words instead of common English equivalents such as "open" and "close" for "on" and "off" or "Open the lights, please" for "Turn on the lights, please".
Canadian students use the term marks (more common in England) or grades (more common in the US) to refer to their results.[77] Usage is very mixed, although marks more commonly refer to a single score whereas grades often refers to the cumulative score in that class.
Labov, Ash and Boberg (2005). The Atlas of North American English. Berlin: de Gruyter. pp. Chapter 20.
^ According to the Canadian Oxford Dictionary (second edition), garburator is "Canadian" and garbage disposal is "North American."
Sounding Canadian from Coast to Coast: Regional accents in Canadian English
18,858,908 Canadians identify their mother tongue as English. 599,230 Québécois identify their mother tongue as English and of that 309,885 live in Montreal.[125]
"Canadian English – Oxford English Dictionary". Public.oed.com. 17 August 2012. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
Many in the Maritime provinces – Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island – have an accent that sounds more like Scottish English and, in some places, Irish English than General American. Outside of major communities, dialects can vary markedly from community to community, as well as from province to province, reflecting ethnic origin as well as a past in which there were few roads and many communities, with some villages very isolated. Into the 1980s, residents of villages in northern Nova Scotia could identify themselves by dialects and accents distinctive to their village. The dialects of Prince Edward Island are often considered the most distinct grouping.
Attitude studies on Canadian English are somewhat rare. A perceptual study on Albertan and Ontarians exists[128] in combination with older literature from the 1970s–80s. Sporadic reports can be found in the literature, e.g. on Vancouver English,[129] in which more than 80% believe in a "Canadian way of speaking", with those with a university education reporting higher than those without.
^ Marmen, Louise and Corbeil, Jean-Pierre, "New Canadian Perspectives, Languages in Canada 2001 Census," Library and Archives Canada Cataloguing in Publication, Statistics Canada Cat. No. Ch3-2/8-2004, (Canadian Heritage, 2004), pg. 60.
Especially among the older generation, /w/ and /hw/ are not merged; that is, the beginning sound of why, white, and which is different from that of witch, with, and wear.
A serious crime is called an indictable offence, while a less-serious crime is called a summary offence. The older words felony and misdemeanour, which are still used in the United States, are not used in Canada's current Criminal Code (R.S.C. 1985, c. C-46) or by today's Canadian legal system. As noted throughout the Criminal Code, a person accused of a crime is called the accused and not the defendant, a term used instead in civil lawsuits.
Members of the Senate are referred to by the title "Senator" preceding their name, as in the United States. Members of the House of Commons of Canada, following British parliamentary nomenclature, are termed "Members of Parliament", and are referred to as "Jennifer Jones, MP" during their term of office only. Senators and members of the Privy Council are styled "The Honourable" for life, and the Prime Minister of Canada is styled "The Right Honourable" for life, as is the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and the Governor General. This honorific may also be bestowed by Parliament, as it was to retiring deputy prime minister Herb Gray in 1996. Members of provincial legislatures do not have a pre-nominal style, except in certain provinces, such as Nova Scotia where members of the Queen's Executive Council of Nova Scotia are styled "The Honourable" for life, and are entitled to the use of the post-nominal letters "ECNS".[80] The Cabinet of Ontario serves concurrently (and not for life) as the Executive Council of Ontario, while serving members are styled "The Honourable", but are not entitled to post-nominal letters.
Peters, Pam (2004). The Cambridge Guide to English Usage. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-62181-X.
Within the public school system the chief administrator of a school is generally "the principal", as in the United States, but the term is not used preceding their name, i.e., "Principal Smith". The assistant to the principal is not titled as "assistant principal", but rather as "vice-principal", although the former is not unknown. This usage is identical to that in Northern Ireland.
Utoronto.ca Archived 12 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine J.K. Chambers, "The Canada-U.S. border as a vanishing isogloss: the evidence of chesterfield." Journal of English Linguistics 23 (1995): 156-66.
Canadian spelling sometimes retains the British practice of doubling the consonant -l- when adding suffixes to words even when the final syllable (before the suffix) is not stressed. Compare Canadian (and British) cancelled, counsellor, and travelling (more often than not in Canadian while always doubled in British) to American canceled, counselor, and traveling (fueled, fuelled, dueling and duelling are all common). In American English, this consonant is only doubled when stressed; thus, for instance, controllable and enthralling are universal. (But both Canadian and British English use balloted and profiting.[37])
5Phonology and phonetics											Toggle Phonology and phonetics subsection																					5.1Standard																											5.2Regional variation																								5.2.1Indigenous																											5.2.2Maritimes																											5.2.3Newfoundland																											5.2.4Ontario																											5.2.5Quebec																											5.2.6West
Canadian raising is quite strong throughout the province of Ontario, except within the Ottawa Valley. The Canadian Shift is also a common vowel shift found in Ontario. The retraction of /æ/ was found to be more advanced for women in Ontario than for people from the Prairies or Atlantic Canada and men.[58]
"Population by mother tongue and age groups, percentage distribution (2006), for Canada, provinces and territories – 20% sample data". Statistics Canada. 2007. Archived from the original on 10 March 2009. Retrieved 4 December 2007.
Masters are addressed as "Mr. Master" or simply "Sir." In British Columbia, masters are addressed as "Your Honour."
Back east typically means 'Ontario or possibly Quebec' whereas Down East instead refers to the Maritimes.[123] The former term is also used in the US to describe someone from east of the Mississippi River (e.g. I'm moving back East, She's from back East); the latter term is used in New England, especially in areas very close to Atlantic Canada, to refer to the two eastern coastal counties of Maine (i.e. I'm going Down East for the weekend.)
Canadian newspaper and magazine style guides:J.A. McFarlane and Warren Clements, The Globe and Mail Style Book: A Guide to Language and Usage, 9th ed. (Toronto: McClelland & Stewart, 1998).The Canadian Press, The Canadian Press Stylebook, 13th ed. and its quick-reference companion CP Caps and Spelling, 16th ed. (both Toronto: Canadian Press, 2004).
Maritimes (PEI, NS, NB, with PEI a subgroup on the lexical level)
bachelor: bachelor apartment, an apartment all in a single room, with a small bathroom attached ("They have a bachelor for rent").[83] The usual American term is studio. In Quebec, this is known as a one-and-a-half apartment; some Canadians, especially in Prince Edward Island, call it a loft.[84] In otherprovinces loft refers to a 2nd floor ina condo unit or bungalow usually with 2nd floor bedrooms
Brooke, Marisa & Tagliamonte, Sali, (2016) Why Does Canadian English Use Try To But British English Use Try And? Let's Try And/To Figure It Out, University of Toronto
Canada, Financial Consumer Agency of (8 June 2018). "ATM fees - Canada.ca". www.canada.ca. Retrieved 29 July 2018.
^ Dollinger, Stefan. "English in Canada". Academia.edu. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
^ Collishaw, Barbara (2002). "FAQs on Writing the Time of Day". Terminology Update. 35 (3): 11.
homogenized milk or homo milk: milk containing 3.25% milk fat, typically called "whole milk" in the United States.
^ Machismo ... or masochism? Archived 12 November 2011 at the Wayback Machine, The Irish Times – Saturday 22 March 2008
A rubber in the US and Canada is slang for a condom. In Canada, it sometimes means an eraser (as in the United Kingdom and Ireland).
Terms common in Canada, Britain and Ireland but less frequent or nonexistent in the United States are:
"Tory MP's bill seeks to clarify how dates are written in legal proceedings"
J.A. McFarlane and Warren Clements, The Globe and Mail Style Book: A Guide to Language and Usage, 9th ed. (Toronto: McClelland & Stewart, 1998).
Countries and territories where English is an official language, but not the majority first language
Tagliamonte, Sali (2006). "So cool, right?: Canadian English Entering the 21st Century". The Canadian Journal of Linguistics. 51 (2): 309–331. doi:10.1353/cjl.2008.0018. ISSN 1710-1115. S2CID 143528477.
Lawyers in all parts of Canada, except Quebec, which has its own civil law system, are called "barristers and solicitors" because any lawyer licensed in any of the common law provinces and territories must pass bar exams for, and is permitted to engage in, both types of legal practice in contrast to other common-law jurisdictions such as England, Wales and Ireland where the two are traditionally separated (i.e., Canada has a fused legal profession). The words lawyer and counsel (not counsellor) predominate in everyday contexts; the word attorney refers to any personal representative. Canadian lawyers generally do not refer to themselves as "attorneys", a term that is common in the United States.
The term hoser, popularized by Bob & Doug McKenzie, typically refers to an uncouth, beer-swilling male and is a euphemism for "loser" coming from the earlier days of hockey played on an outdoor rink and the losing team would have to hose down the ice after the game so it froze smooth.[120] Bob & Doug also popularized the use of Beauty, eh, another western slang term which may be used to describe something as being of interest or note or deserving approval.[citation needed]
Words such as anesthesia and gynecology are usually or more commonly spelled as in American English rather than anaesthesia and gynaecology as in British English.
The words advocate and notary – two distinct professions in Quebec civil law – are used to refer to that province's approximate equivalents of barrister and solicitor, respectively. It is not uncommon for English-speaking advocates in Quebec to refer to themselves in English as "barrister(s) and solicitor(s)", as most advocates chiefly perform what would traditionally be known as "solicitor's work", while only a minority of advocates actually appear in court. In Canada's common law provinces and territories, the word notary means strictly a notary public.
^ a b Barber, Katherine, ed. (1998). The Canadian Oxford Dictionary (1st ed.). Toronto: Oxford University Press. pp. 1075. ISBN 978-0-19-541120-1.
^ Dollinger, Stefan. 2012. Canadian English in real-time perspective Archived 16 June 2017 at the Wayback Machine. In: English Historical Linguistics: An International Handbook. Vol. II. (HSK 34.2), ed. by Alexander Bergs & Laurel Brinton, 1858–1880. Berlin, New York: Mouton de Gruyter. UPDATED version, for 2017, is found here: https://www.academia.edu/35010966/Varieties_of_English_Canadian_English_in_real-time_perspective_2017_updated_version_of_2012_paper_
Although Canadian lexicon features both railway and railroad, railway is the usual term in naming (witness Canadian National Railway and Canadian Pacific Railway), though railroad can be heard fairly frequently in some regions; most rail terminology in Canada follows American usage (for example, ties and cars rather than sleepers and carriages).
Quebec (concerning the c. 500 000 Anglophone speakers in the province, not the Francophone speakers of English)
"Herald's move to Canadian spellings a labour of love". Calgary Herald. 2 September 1998. p. A2.
Dollinger, Stefan (ed.-in-chief), Laurel J. Brinton and Margery Fee (eds). 2013. DCHP-1 Online: A Dictionary of Canadianisms on Historical Principles Online Archived 23 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine. Based on Walter S. Avis et al. (1967). Vancouver, BC: University of British Columbia.
While the process of the making of Canadian English—its documentation and codification—goes back to the 1930s,[27] the 1960s were the key period.[28][verification needed]Like other social developments in Canada, the general acceptance of Canadian English has taken its time. According to a recent study, a noticeable shift in public discourse can only be seen in the middle of the first decade of the 2000s, when Canadian English was seen as a "given", generally accepted default variety, while before such statements were usually "balanced" by doubts.[29]
Cape Bretoners and Newfies (from Newfoundland and Labrador) often have similar slang. "Barmp" is often used as the sound a car horn makes, example: "He cut me off so I barmped the horn at him". When saying "B'y", while sounds like the traditional farewell, it is a syncopated shortening of the word "boy", referring to a person, example: "How's it goin, b'y?". Another slang that is commonly used is "doohickey" which means an object, example: "Pass me that doohickey over there". When an individual uses the word "biffed", they mean that they threw something. Example: "I got frustrated so I biffed it across the room".[121]
^ "TD Green Machine ATM Machines | TD Canada Trust". www.tdcanadatrust.com. Retrieved 29 July 2018.
Canadian English: Editors' Association of Canada, Editing Canadian English: The Essential Canadian Guide, 2nd ed. (Toronto: McClelland & Stewart, 2000).
"ATM and Banking Centre Network | CIBC". www.cibc.com. Retrieved 29 July 2018.
The north and northwestern parts of Southwestern Ontario, the area consisting of the Counties of Huron, Bruce, Grey, and Perth, referred to as the "Queen's Bush" in the 19th century, did not experience communication with the dialects of the southern part of Southwestern Ontario and Central Ontario until the early 20th century. Thus, a strong accent similar to Central Ontarian is heard, yet many different phrasings exist. It is typical in the area to drop phonetic sounds to make shorter contractions, such as: prolly (probably), goin' (going), and "Wuts goin' on tonight? D'ya wanna do sumthin'?" It is particularly strong in the County of Bruce, so much that it is commonly referred to as being the Bruce Cownian (Bruce Countian) accent. Also 'er' sounds are often pronounced 'air', with "were" sounding more like "wear".
"Opinion: The revolution of Toronto slang". The Varsity. 8 March 2020. Retrieved 31 May 2022.
Avis, Walter S. (1967). A Dictionary of Canadianisms on Historical Principles. Toronto, ON: Gage Ltd. pp. s.v. "Canadian English". OCLC 299968792.
"Labov, Ash, Boberg. 2006. The Atlas of North American English. Berlin: Mouton, ch. 15.
^ "Factors which shaped the varieties of English". AskOxford.com. Archived from the original on 14 May 2008. Retrieved 26 February 2011.
"Bartleby.com: Great Books Online -- Quotes, Poems, Novels, Classics and hundreds more". Archived from the original on 18 February 2007.
Stars in the running Archived 12 November 2011 at the Wayback Machine, The Irish Times, Tuesday 7 October 2008
In Quebec, English speakers often use the word "metro" to mean subway. Non-native Anglophones of Quebec will also use the designated proper title "Metro" to describe the Montreal subway system.
^ Boberg, Charles (2005). "The North American Regional Vocabulary Survey: New variables and methods in the study of North American English". American Speech. 80 (1): 22–60. doi:10.1215/00031283-80-1-22.
Indian reserve, rather than the US term federal Indian reservation. Often shortened to reserve, especially when the meaning is clear from context; another slang variant of this term is the shortened res or (more commonly) rez. Not to be confused with res, which in the context of universities refers strictly to residences or halls of residence (compare to the US American dorms or dormitories). Therefore, the sentences when I lived on rez and when I lived in res mean very different things. The territory of the particular band nation is usually referred to on a map as (Band name here) First Nations I.R.
^ "Fire hall – Definition from the Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary". www.merriam-webster.com. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 13 August 2010. Retrieved 19 November 2019.
"5.14: Dates". The Canadian style: A guide to writing and editing (Rev. ed.). Toronto: Dundurn Press. 1997. p. 97. ISBN 978-1-55002-276-6 – via Public Works and Government Services Canada, Translation Bureau.
British Columbian English decreasingly uses several words borrowed from the Chinook Jargon. The most famous and widely used of these terms are skookum and saltchuck. In the Yukon, cheechako is used for newcomers or greenhorns.
^ Dollinger, Stefan (26 August 2010). "New data for an English usage puzzle: the long history of spelling variation in Canadian English and its linguistic implications" (PDF). Icehl-16.pte.hu. Retrieved 20 August 2017. Paper given at the 16th International Conference on English Historical Linguistics, Pécs, Hungary
Date and time notation in Canadian English is a mixture of British and American practices. The date can be written in the form of either "July 1, 2017" or "1 July 2017"; the latter is common in more formal writing and bilingual contexts.[70] The Government of Canada only recommends writing all-numeric dates in the form of YYYY-MM-DD (e.g. 2017-07-01), following ISO 8601.[71] Nonetheless, the traditional DD/MM/YY and MM/DD/YY systems remain in everyday use, which can be interpreted in multiple ways: 01/07/17 can mean either 1 July 2017 or 7 January 2017. Private members' bills have repeatedly attempted to clarify the situation.[72] In business communication and filing systems the YYMMDD is used to assist in automatic ordering of electronic files.
"Some Canadians used to speak with a quasi-British accent called Canadian Dainty"
^ "The Crazy Canucks: Canada's Skiing Heroes". Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. Retrieved 25 September 2012.
While in standard usage the terms prime minister and premier are interchangeable terms for the head of an elected parliamentary government, Canadian English today generally follows a usage convention of reserving the title prime minister for the federal first minister and referring to provincial or territorial leaders as premiers. Because Canadian French does not have separate terms for the two positions, using premier ministre for both, the title prime minister is sometimes seen in reference to a provincial leader when a Francophone is speaking or writing English. Also, until the 1970s the leader of the Ontario provincial government was officially styled prime minister.
^ Ireland, Robert (1979). Canadian spelling. An empirical and historical survey of selected words. Toronto, ON. PhD Thesis: York University. pp. 140–45.
^ Boberg, Charles (2004) Standard Canadian English." In Raymond Hickey. Standards of English: Codified Varieties Around the World. Cambridge University Press. p. 159.
Nosowitz, Dan (10 January 2017). "Why Do Canadians Say 'Eh'?: The story behind Canada's most distinctive verbal tic". Atlas Obscura. Atlas Obscura. Retrieved 12 January 2017.
^ Boberg, Charles (2008). "Regional phonetic differentiation in Standard Canadian English". Journal of English Linguistics. 36 (2): 129–54. doi:10.1177/0075424208316648. S2CID 146478485.
^ "Opinion: The revolution of Toronto slang". The Varsity. 8 March 2020. Retrieved 31 May 2022.
Gagnon, Erica, Collections Researcher "Archived (Date missing) at pier21.ca (Error: unknown archive URL)". Pier 21 Museum.
DCHP-1 Online: A Dictionary of Canadianisms on Historical Principles Online
English is a minority language in Quebec (with French the majority), but has many speakers in Montreal, the Eastern Townships and in the Gatineau-Ottawa region. A person whose mother tongue is English and who still speaks English is called an Anglophone, versus a Francophone, or French speaker.
^ Dollinger, Stefan (2000).Ogilvie, Sarah (ed.). Cambridge Companion to English Dictionaries. Cambridge University Press. pp. Section 2. doi:10.13140/RG.2.2.21497.36969.
Cheshire, Jenny. (ed.) 1991. English Around the World: Sociolinguistic Perspectives. New York: Cambridge University Press, 134.
^ a b Lilles, Jaan (April 2000). "The myth of Canadian English". English Today. 16 (2): 3–9. doi:10.1017/S0266078400011548. S2CID 145665089.
six-pack, half-sack, half-case, or poverty-pack: a case of six beers
A Newf or Newfie is someone from Newfoundland and Labrador; sometimes considered derogatory. In Newfoundland, the term Mainlander refers to any Canadian (sometimes American, occasionally Labradorian) not from the island of Newfoundland. Mainlander is also occasionally used derogatorily.
^ Dollinger, Stefan (2011). "Canadian English". Public OED.com. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 26 May 2016. Retrieved 16 May 2016.
Kraft Dinner or "KD": for any packaged dry macaroni and cheese mix, even when it is not produced by Kraft.
Halford, Brigitte K (1996), Talk units: the structure of spoken Canadian English, Tübingen Narr, ISBN 978-3-8233-4577-0
Throughout part of the 20th century, some Canadian newspapers adopted American spellings,[40] for example, color as opposed to the British-based colour. Some of the most substantial historical spelling data can be found in Dollinger (2010)[41] and Grue (2013).[42] The use of such spellings was the long-standing practice of the Canadian Press perhaps since that news agency's inception, but visibly the norm prior to World War II.[43] The practice of dropping the letter u in such words was also considered a labour-saving technique during the early days of printing in which movable type was set manually.[43] Canadian newspapers also received much of their international content from American press agencies, therefore it was much easier for editorial staff to leave the spellings from the wire services as provided.[44]
^ a b Sellar, Don (8 March 1997). "Let's hear what the readers say". Toronto Star. p. C2.
Clark, Joe (2008). Organizing Our Marvellous Neighbours: How to Feel Good About Canadian English (e-book). ISBN 978-0-9809525-0-6.
Glen, Gray (2014). Da Mudder Tung. Sydney, Nova Scotia: Microtext Publishing. pp. 6, 7, 17.
A strong Canadian raising exists in the prairie regions together with certain older usages such as chesterfield and front room also associated with the Maritimes. Aboriginal Canadians are a larger and more conspicuous population in prairie cities than elsewhere in the country and certain elements of aboriginal speech in English are sometimes to be heard. Similarly, the linguistic legacy, mostly intonation but also speech patterns and syntax, of the Scandinavian, Slavic and German settlers – who are far more numerous and historically important in the Prairies than in Ontario or the Maritimes – can be heard in the general milieu. Again, the large Métis population in Saskatchewan and Manitoba also carries with it certain linguistic traits inherited from French, Aboriginal and Celtic forebears.Some terms are derived from immigrant groups or are just local inventions:
^ "Population by mother tongue and age groups, percentage distribution (2006), for Canada, provinces and territories – 20% sample data". Statistics Canada. 2007. Archived from the original on 10 March 2009. Retrieved 4 December 2007.
Honderich, John (13 September 1997). "How your Star is changing". Toronto Star. p. A2.
Labov, William; Ash, Sharon & Boberg, Charles (2006). The Atlas of North American English. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-016746-7.
'Hover & Hear' pronunciations in a standard Canadian accent, and compare side by side with other English accents from around the world.
mickey: a 375 mL (12.7 US fl oz; 13.2 imp fl oz) bottle of hard liquor (informally called a pint in the Maritimes and the United States). In Newfoundland, this is almost exclusively referred to as a "flask". In the United States, "mickey", or "Mickey Finn", refers to a drink laced with drugs.
^ The Grammarist, "Aluminium vs. aluminum". Retrieved 2 June 2018. available at: http://grammarist.com/spelling/aluminium-aluminum/ Archived 20 June 2018 at the Wayback Machine
"Where Does the Word 'Hoser' Come From?". www.mentalfloss.com. 1 July 2016. Retrieved 3 February 2020.
Allemang, John (1 September 1990). "Contemplating a U-turn". The Globe and Mail. p. D6.
"Dynamique des langues en quelques chiffres : Tableaux – Secrétariat à la politique linguistique". spl.gouv.qc.ca (in French). Archived from the original on 7 December 2016. Retrieved 5 February 2017.
Historically, Canadian English included a class-based sociolect known as Canadian dainty.[35] Treated as a marker of upper-class prestige in the 19th and early 20th centuries, Canadian dainty was marked by the use of some features of British English pronunciation, resulting in an accent similar, but not identical, to the Mid-Atlantic accent known in the United States.[35] This accent faded in prominence following World War II, when it became stigmatized as pretentious, and is now almost never heard in modern Canadian life outside of archival recordings used in film, television or radio documentaries.[35]
"Done My Homework". Yale Grammatical Diversity Project English in North America. Yale University. 2017.
Dollinger, Stefan (2011). "Academic and public attitudes to the notion of 'standard' Canadian English". Archived from the original on 21 October 2017. Retrieved 26 January 2018.
^ Stars in the running Archived 12 November 2011 at the Wayback Machine, The Irish Times, Tuesday 7 October 2008
7Vocabulary											Toggle Vocabulary subsection																					7.1Education																											7.2Units of measurement																											7.3Transport																											7.4Politics																											7.5Law																											7.6Places																											7.7Daily life																								7.7.1Apparel																											7.7.2Food and beverage																														7.8Prairies (Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta)																											7.9British Columbia																											7.10Ontario																											7.11Informal speech																											7.12Other Canadianisms
^ Dollinger, Stefan (2019). "Creating Canadian English: the Professor, the Mountaineer, and a National Variety of English". Cambridge University Press. Cambridge, UK: 26.
Canada's political history has also had an influence on Canadian spelling. Canada's first prime minister, John A. Macdonald, once advised the Governor General of Canada to issue an order-in-council directing that government papers be written in the British style.[39]
^ a b Oxford Press; Barber, Katherine (2001). The Canadian Oxford Dictionary. Toronto, Ontario: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-541731-9.
Several political terms are more in use in Canada than elsewhere, including riding (as a general term for a parliamentary constituency or electoral district, this term is unique to Canada). The term reeve was at one time common for the equivalent of a mayor in some smaller municipalities in British Columbia and Ontario, but is now falling into disuse. The title is still used for the leader of a rural municipality in Saskatchewan, parts of Alberta, and Manitoba.
^ Swan, Julia (2016). "Canadian English in the Pacific Northwest: A phonetic comparison of Vancouver, BC and Seattle, WA". Proceedings of the 2016 Annual Conference of the Canadian Linguistic Association.
Don J. DeVoretz (2011). "Canada's Secret Province: 2.8 Million Canadians Abroad". Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada. Archived from the original on 27 September 2013. Retrieved 23 September 2013.
The alphanumeric code appended to mail addresses (the equivalent of the similar British postcode and the all-numeric American ZIP code) is called a postal code.
^ Harbeck, James (2014) "Why It's Difficult to Tell a Canadian Accent from a Californian One Archived 2015-12-02 at the Wayback Machine". The Week. The Week Publications, Inc.
Dollinger, Stefan (2015). The Written Questionnaire in Social Dialectology: History, Theory, Practice. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins. The book's examples are exclusive taken from Canadian English and represent one of the more extensive collections of variables for Canadian English.
tin (as in tin of tuna), for can, especially among older speakers. Among younger speakers, can is more common, with tin referring to a can which is wider than it is tall as in "a tin of sardines" as opposed to a "can of soup".[citation needed]
BFI bin: Dumpster, after a prominent Canadian waste management company, BFI Canada (which was eventually bought out and merged to become Waste Connections of Canada) in provinces where that company does business; compare to other generic trademarks such as Kleenex, Xerox, and even Dumpster itself.
runners:[102] running shoes, especially in Western Canada.[103] Also used in Australian English[104] and Irish English.[105][106][107] Atlantic Canada prefers sneakers while central Canada (including Quebec and Ontario) prefers running shoes.[108]
(See below for an explanation of the Canadian spelling of tire.)
Barber, Katherine, ed. (2004). The Canadian Oxford dictionary (2nd ed.). Oxford University Press. p. 1580. ISBN 9780195418163. Because both of these meanings are in use in Canada, confusion may arise if the verb table is used outside of a strictly parliamentary context, where the first sense [bring forward] should be understood. It is better to use a different verb altogether, such as present or postpone, as the context requires.
The word bum can refer either to the buttocks (as in Britain), or to a homeless person (as in the US). The "buttocks" sense does not have the indecent character it retains in British use, as it and "butt" are commonly used as a polite or childish euphemism for ruder words such as arse (commonly used in Atlantic Canada and among older people in Ontario and to the west) or ass, or mitiss (used in the Prairie Provinces, especially in northern and central Saskatchewan; probably originally a Cree loanword). Older Canadians may see "bum" as more polite than "butt", which before the 1980s was often considered rude.
Chambers, J.K. (1998). "Canadian English: 250 Years in the Making," in The Canadian Oxford Dictionary, 2nd ed., p. xi.
Elango, Vidhya; Denis, Derek. "Variable BAN-laxing in Multicultural Toronto English" (PDF). (CLA) Canadian Linguistic Association. Archived (PDF) from the original on 29 July 2021.
^ Cheshire, Jenny. (ed.) 1991. English Around the World: Sociolinguistic Perspectives. New York: Cambridge University Press, 134.
^ "English"; IANA language subtag registry; subject named as: en; publication date: 16 October 2005; retrieved: 11 January 2019.
^ "Canada"; IANA language subtag registry; subject named as: CA; publication date: 16 October 2005; retrieved: 11 January 2019.
Canada, Government of Canada, Statistics. "Census Data Navigator". 12.statcan.ca. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
^ "The past, present, and future of Canadian English: What our accent tells us about being Canadian". The Pigeon. 17 July 2020. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
^ Dollinger, Stefan (2012). "Varieties of English: Canadian English in real-time perspective." In English Historical Linguistics: An International Handbook (HSK 34.2), Alexander Bergs & Laurel J. Brinton (eds), 1858–1880. Berlin: De Gruyter. pp. 1859–1860.
Canadian spelling of the English language combines British and American conventions, the two dominant varieties, and adds some domestic idiosyncrasies. For many words, American and British spelling are both acceptable. Spelling in Canadian English co-varies with regional and social variables, somewhat more so, perhaps, than in the two dominant varieties of English, yet general trends have emerged since the 1970s.[36]
The English Language in Canada: Status, History and Comparative Analysis
The references used may be made clearer with a different or consistent style of citation and footnoting.
Countries and territories where English is the national language or the native language of the majority
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Canadian English" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
British Columbia English shares dialect features with both Standard Canadian English and the American Pacific Northwest English. In Vancouver, speakers exhibit more vowel retraction of /æ/ before nasals than people from Toronto, and this retraction may become a regional marker of West Coast English.[64] /æɡ/ raising (found words such as bag, vague and bagel), a prominent feature in western American speakers, is also found in Vancouver speakers.[65] Younger speakers in the Greater Vancouver area do not raise /aʊ/ as much, but keep the drop in intonation, causing "about" to sound slightly like "a baht", in the same vein as certain south Californian "surfer accents". The "o" in such words as holy, goal, load, know, etc. is pronounced as a close-mid back rounded vowel, [o], but not as rounded as in the Prairies where there are strong Scandinavian, Slavic and German influences, which can lend to a more stereotypical "Canadian" accent.
"Some Canadians used to speak with a quasi-British accent called Canadian Dainty" Archived 5 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine. CBC News, 1 July 2017.
Boberg, Charles (2004) Standard Canadian English." In Raymond Hickey. Standards of English: Codified Varieties Around the World. Cambridge University Press. p. 159.
Dollinger, Stefan (2019). "Creating Canadian English: the Professor, the Mountaineer, and a National Variety of English". Cambridge University Press. Cambridge, UK: 31–32 & chapter 9.
^ "5.14: Dates". The Canadian style: A guide to writing and editing (Rev. ed.). Toronto: Dundurn Press. 1997. p. 97. ISBN 978-1-55002-276-6 – via Public Works and Government Services Canada, Translation Bureau.
^ en-CA is the language code for Canadian English, as defined by ISO standards (see ISO 639-1 and ISO 3166-1 alpha-2) and Internet standards (see IETF language tag).
Members of provincial/territorial legislative assemblies are called MLAs in all provinces and territories except: Ontario, where they have been called Members of Provincial Parliament (MPPs) since 1938; Quebec, where they have been called Members of the National Assembly (MNAs) since 1968; and Newfoundland and Labrador, where they are called Members of the House of Assembly (MHAs). Each abbreviation is used as a post-nominal during terms of office only.
To table a document in Canadian, in parliamentary usage, is to introduce or present it (as in Britain), whereas in the US it means to postpone consideration until a later date, often indefinitely. While the introduction meaning is the most common sense in non-parliamentary usage, the presentation meaning is also used in Canada. The Canadian Oxford Dictionary simply recommends avoiding the term in non-parliamentary context.[79]
Judges of provincial or inferior courts are traditionally referred to in person as "Your Honour". Judges of the Supreme Court of Canada and of the federal-level courts prefer the use of "Mister/Madam (Chief) Justice". Justices of The Peace are addressed as "Your Worship". "Your Honour" is also the correct form of address for a Lieutenant Governor.
double-double: a cup of coffee with two measures of cream and two of sugar,[110] most commonly associated with the Tim Hortons chain of coffee shops.[111]
poutine: a snack of french fries topped with cheese curds and hot gravy.
"English"; IANA language subtag registry; subject named as: en; publication date: 16 October 2005; retrieved: 11 January 2019.
bunny hug: elsewhere hoodie or hooded sweat shirt (mainly in Saskatchewan, but also in Manitoba)
^ "Pogey: What Does it Mean? Bonny, 2006" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 August 2011. Retrieved 26 February 2011.
The provinces east of Ontario show the largest dialect diversity. Northern Canada is, according to William Labov, a dialect region in formation, and a homogeneous English dialect has not yet formed.[49] A very homogeneous dialect exists in Western and Central Canada, a situation that is similar to that of the Western United States. Labov identifies an "Inland Canada" region that concentrates all of the defining features of the dialect centred on the Prairies, with periphery areas with more variable patterns including the metropolitan areas of Vancouver and Toronto.[11] This dialect forms a dialect continuum with the far Western US English, sharply differentiated from the Inland Northern US English of the central and eastern Great Lakes region.
^ Labov, William; Ash, Sharon; and Boberg, Charles. The Atlas of North American English: Phonetics, Phonology, and Sound Change. Walter de Gruyter, 2006, p. 216: "In general, the English spoken in the Canadian North can be viewed as a dialect in formation ... The region's European population is too sparsely settled, too diverse in origin, and too recently arrived to have produced an identifiable, homogeneous dialect distinct from southern Canadian English, while its large Aboriginal population speaks a range of varieties influenced by non-English substrates ..."
booze can: an after-hours establishment where alcohol is served, often illegally.
Building materials are used in soft conversions of imperial sizes, but often purchased in relation to the imperial sizes. For example, 8-inch concrete masonry units can be referred to as an 8-inch CMU or 190 CMU. The actual material used in the US and Canada is the same.
^ Lambrecht, Kirk N (1991). The Administration of Dominion Lands, 1870-1930.
Termium Plus: the Government of Canada terminology and linguistic databank
French-derived words that in American English end with -er, such as fiber or center, retain British spellings (fibre and centre). This rule is much more relaxed than the -our rule, with kilometer (kilometre) being quite acceptable while meager (meagre) and somber (sombre) may not even be noticed.
Harbeck, James (2014) "Why It's Difficult to Tell a Canadian Accent from a Californian One Archived 2015-12-02 at the Wayback Machine". The Week. The Week Publications, Inc.
Words such as realize and organization are usually given their Oxford spellings with a z.
"TD Green Machine ATM Machines | TD Canada Trust". www.tdcanadatrust.com. Retrieved 29 July 2018.
^ Chambers, J. K. (Fall 1973). "Canadian raising". Canadian Journal of Linguistics. 18 (2): 113–135. doi:10.1017/S0008413100007350. S2CID 247196050.
Phonologically, Canadian and American English are classified together as North American English, emphasizing the fact that most cannot distinguish the typical accents of the two countries by sound alone.[8][9] While Canadian English tends to be closer to American English in most regards,[10][11] it does possess elements from British English and some uniquely Canadian characteristics.[12] The precise influence of American English, British English and other sources on Canadian English varieties has been the ongoing focus of systematic studies since the 1950s.[13]
Drop the gloves: to begin a fight. A reference to a practice in hockey of removing gloves prior to fighting, and the idiom "throw down the gauntlet" as well as a reference to medieval knights and gentlemen.
Boberg, Charles (2008). "Regional phonetic differentiation in Standard Canadian English". Journal of English Linguistics. 36 (2): 129–54. doi:10.1177/0075424208316648. S2CID 146478485.
The term Canuck simply means Canadian in its demonymic form, and, as a term used even by Canadians themselves, it is not considered derogatory. (In the 19th century and early 20th century it tended to refer to French-Canadians.) The only Canadian-built version of the popular World War I-era American Curtiss JN-4 Jenny training biplane aircraft, the JN-4C, 1,260 of which were built, got the "Canuck" nickname; so did another aircraft, the Fleet Model 80, built from the mid-1940s until the late 1950s. The nickname Janey Canuck was used by Anglophone women's rights writer Emily Murphy in the 1920s and the Johnny Canuck comic book character of the 1940s. Throughout the 1970s, Canada's winning World Cup men's downhill ski team was called the "Crazy Canucks" for their fearlessness on the slopes.[119] It is also the name of the Vancouver Canucks, the National Hockey League team of Vancouver, British Columbia.
dépanneur, or the diminutive form dep, is often used by English speakers in Quebec. This is because convenience stores are called dépanneurs in Canadian French.
Dollinger, Stefan (2011). "Canadian English". Public OED.com. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 26 May 2016. Retrieved 16 May 2016.
^ "Canadian English." McArthur, T., ed. (2005). Concise Oxford companion to the English language, pp. 96–102. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-280637-8. On p. 97: "Because Canadian English and American English are so alike, some scholars have argued that in linguistic terms Canadian English is no more or less than a variety of (Northern) American English.
^ Sometimes the gym doesn't fix it Archived 12 November 2011 at the Wayback Machine, The Irish Times, Tuesday, 6 January 2009
ginch/gonch/gitch/gotch: underwear (usually men's or boys' underwear, more specifically briefs; whereas women's underwear are gotchies), probably of Eastern European or Ukrainian origin. Gitch and gotch are primarily used in Saskatchewan and Manitoba while the variants with an n are common in Alberta and British Columbia.[112]
French-derived words that in American English end with -or, such as color or honor, retain British spellings (colour and honour).
In 2011, just under 21.5 million Canadians, representing 65% of the population, spoke English most of the time at home, while 58% declared it their mother language.[124] English is the major language everywhere in Canada except Quebec, and most Canadians (85%) can speak English.[125] While English is not the preferred language in Quebec, 36.1% of the Québécois can speak English.[126] Nationally, Francophones are five times more likely to speak English than Anglophones are to speak French – 44% and 9% respectively.[127] Only 3.2% of Canada's English-speaking population resides in Quebec—mostly in Montreal.[nb 1]
^ Dollinger, Stefan. (2008)."New-Dialect Formation in Canada." Amsterdam: Benjamins, 978 90 272 31068 6. p. 279."
Most Canadians as well as Americans in the Northwest, North Central, Prairie and Inland North prefer pop over soda to refer to a carbonated beverage, but soda is understood to mean the same thing, in contrast to British English where soda refers specifically to soda water (US/Canadian seltzer water). Soft drink is also extremely common throughout Canada.
A stagette is a female bachelorette party (US) or hen party (UK).
^ a b Dollinger, Stefan (2008). "New-Dialect Formation in Canada". Amsterdam: Benjamins, ISBN 9789027231086. p. 25.
Canadian spelling conventions can be partly explained by Canada's trade history. For instance, the British spelling of the word cheque probably relates to Canada's once-important ties to British financial institutions.[citation needed] Canada's automobile industry, on the other hand, has been dominated by American firms from its inception, explaining why Canadians use the American spelling of tire (hence, "Canadian Tire") and American terminology for automobiles and their parts (for example, truck instead of lorry, gasoline instead of petrol, trunk instead of boot).[37]
The Canadian Press, The Canadian Press Stylebook, 13th ed. and its quick-reference companion CP Caps and Spelling, 16th ed. (both Toronto: Canadian Press, 2004).
Members of the Bloc Québécois are sometimes referred to as Bloquistes. At the purely provincial level, members of Quebec's Parti Québécois are often referred to as Péquistes, and members of the Quebec provincial Action démocratique du Québec as Adéquistes.
Why It's Difficult to Tell a Canadian Accent from a Californian One
Varieties of English: Canadian English from the University of Arizona
^ Glen, Gray (2014). Da Mudder Tung. Sydney, Nova Scotia: Microtext Publishing. pp. 6, 7, 17.
"Canada"; IANA language subtag registry; subject named as: CA; publication date: 16 October 2005; retrieved: 11 January 2019.
two-six, twenty-sixer, twixer: a 750 mL (25 US fl oz; 26 imp fl oz) bottle of hard liquor (called a quart in the Maritimes). The word handle is less common. Similarly, a 1.14 L (39 US fl oz; 40 imp fl oz) bottle of hard liquor is known as a forty and a 1.75 L (59 US fl oz; 62 imp fl oz) bottle is known as a sixty or half gallon in Nova Scotia.
In farming communities with substantial Ukrainian, German or Mennonite populations, accents, sentence structure and vocabulary influenced by these languages is common. These communities are most common in the Saskatchewan Valley region of Saskatchewan and Red River Valley region of Manitoba.
Within the Canadian legal community itself, the word solicitor is often used to refer to any Canadian lawyer in general (much like the way the word attorney is used in the United States to refer to any American lawyer in general). Despite the conceptual distinction between barrister and solicitor, Canadian court documents would contain a phrase such as "John Smith, solicitor for the Plaintiff" even though "John Smith" may well himself be the barrister who argues the case in court. In a letter introducing him/herself to an opposing lawyer, a Canadian lawyer normally writes something like "I am the solicitor" for Mr. Tom Jones."
Dollinger, Stefan (2008). New-Dialect Formation in Canada: Evidence from the English Modal Auxiliaries 1776–1849. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: Benjamins.
The term "Socred" is no longer common due to its namesake party's decline, but referred to members of the Social Credit Party, and was particularly common in British Columbia. It was not used for Social Credit members from Quebec, nor generally used for the federal caucus of that party; in both cases Créditiste, the French term, was used in English.
bunnyhug: a hooded sweatshirt, with or without a zipper. Used mainly in Saskatchewan.
^ "2006 Census : Languages Reference Guide". www12.statcan.ca. Archived from the original on 26 August 2016. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
While the United States uses the Anglo-French spelling defense and offense (noun), most Canadians use the British spellings defence and offence. (But defensive and offensive are universal across all forms of English.)
The term Texas gate refers to the type of metal grid called a cattle guard in American English or a cattle grid in British English.
Courtney, Rosemary, and others., senior editors (1998). The Gage Canadian Dictionary, second edition. Toronto: Gage Learning Corp. ISBN 0-7715-7399-5.
Safety, Government of Canada, Transport Canada, Safety and Security, Rail. "Grade Crossing Safety". tc.gc.ca. Archived from the original on 29 January 2017. Retrieved 24 January 2017.
Dollinger, Stefan (2015). "The Written Questionnaire in Social Dialectology: History, Theory, Practice. Amsterdam/Philadelphia". Impact: Studies in Language and Society. Benjamins: 253. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
^ Dollinger, Stefan (2015). "The Written Questionnaire in Social Dialectology: History, Theory, Practice. Amsterdam/Philadelphia". Impact: Studies in Language and Society. Benjamins: 253. Retrieved 20 August 2017.
^ McKinnie, Meghan and Jennifer Dailey-O'Cain. 2002. A perceptual dialectology of Anglophone Canada from the perspective of young Albertans and Ontarians. In Handbook of Perceptual Dialectology. Vol. 2, ed. by Daniel Long, 277-94. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
A "shag" is thought, erroneously, to be derived from "shower" and "stag", and describes a dance where alcohol, entry tickets, raffle tickets, and so on, are sold to raise money for the engaged couple's wedding. Normally a Northwest Ontario, Northern Ontario[citation needed] and sometimes Manitoba term, a "stag and doe" or "buck and doe" is used elsewhere in Ontario. The more common term for this type of event in Manitoba is a "social". In many contexts shag can also refer to intercourse.
Hickey, Raymond (9 December 2013). A Dictionary of Varieties of English. doi:10.1002/9781118602607. ISBN 9781118602607.
Visible Minority Population and Population Group Reference Guide, 2006 Census Archived 11 December 2008 at the Wayback Machine from StatsCan
freezie: A frozen flavoured sugar water snack common worldwide, but known by this name exclusively in Canada.
^ Dollinger, Stefan (2019). "Creating Canadian English: the Professor, the Mountaineer, and a National Variety of English". Cambridge University Press. Cambridge, UK: 31–32 & chapter 9.
^ Henry, Alison. 1992. Infinitives in a For-To Dialect. Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 2, 279.
The word litigator is also used by lawyers to refer to a fellow lawyer who specializes in lawsuits even though the more traditional word barrister is still employed to denote the same specialization.
In Eastern Ontario, Canadian raising is not as strong as it is in the rest of the province. In Prescott and Russell, parts of Stormont-Dundas-Glengarry and Eastern Ottawa, French accents are often mixed with English ones due to the high Franco-Ontarian population there. In Lanark County, Western Ottawa and Leeds-Grenville and the rest of Stormont-Dundas-Glengarry, the accent spoken is nearly identical to that spoken in Central Ontario and the Quinte area.
Swan, Julia (2016). "Canadian English in the Pacific Northwest: A phonetic comparison of Vancouver, BC and Seattle, WA". Proceedings of the 2016 Annual Conference of the Canadian Linguistic Association.
"The past, present, and future of Canadian English: What our accent tells us about being Canadian". The Pigeon. 17 July 2020. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
^ "2006 Census Highlights – Mother tongue and Language" (PDF). Ontario Ministry of Finance. Retrieved 7 February 2017.
^ 18,858,908 Canadians identify their mother tongue as English. 599,230 Québécois identify their mother tongue as English and of that 309,885 live in Montreal.[125]
Barber, Katherine. "11 Favourite Regionalisms Within Canada", in David Vallechinsky and Amy Wallace (2005). The Book of Lists, Canadian Edition. Knopf. ISBN 978-0-676-97720-2.
^ a b MacPherson, William (31 March 1990). "Practical concerns spelled the end for -our". Ottawa Citizen. p. B3.
^ Tagliamonte, Sali (2006). "So cool, right?: Canadian English Entering the 21st Century". The Canadian Journal of Linguistics. 51 (2): 309–331. doi:10.1353/cjl.2008.0018. ISSN 1710-1115. S2CID 143528477.
Dollinger, Stefan (2012). "Varieties of English: Canadian English in real-time perspective." In English Historical Linguistics: An International Handbook (HSK 34.2), Alexander Bergs & Laurel J. Brinton (eds), 1858–1880. Berlin: De Gruyter. pp. 1859–1860.
camp: in Northern Ontario, it refers to what is called a cottage in the rest of Ontario; often more specifically to a vacation home not directly adjacent to a body of water,and a cabin in the West.[85] It is also used, to a lesser extent, in New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, as well as in parts of New England. It generally refers to vacation houses in rural areas.
^ Reuter, David. 2015.Newspaper, politics, and Canadian English: a corpus-based analysis of selected linguistic variables in early nineteenth-century Ontario newspapers. PhD thesis. University of Kiel, Germany.
The States: Commonly used to refer to the United States or almost as often the U.S., much less often U.S.A. or America which are commonly used in other countries, the latter more often used in other English-speaking nations.
^ Douglas Hunter, Double Double: How Tim Hortons Became a Canadian Way of Life, One Cup at a Time. HarperCollins, 2012. ISBN 978-1443406741.
In other cases, Canadian and American usage differs from British spelling, such as in the case of nouns like curb and tire (of a wheel), which in British English are spelled kerb and tyre. (But tire in the sense of "make or become weary" is universal.)Some other differences like Canadian and American aluminum versus aluminium elsewhere correspond to different pronunciations.[38] .mw-parser-output div.crossreference{padding-left:0}(See below for an explanation of the Canadian spelling of tire.)
"Decisions: Chocolate and Cocoa Products". Canadien Food Inspection Agency. Archived from the original on 27 April 2010. Retrieved 4 June 2012.
An expiry date is the term used for the date when a perishable product will go bad (similar to the UK Use By date). The term expiration date is more common in the United States (where expiry date is seen mostly on the packaging of Asian food products). The term Best Before also sees common use, where although not spoiled, the product may not taste "as good".
en-CA is the language code for Canadian English, as defined by ISO standards (see ISO 639-1 and ISO 3166-1 alpha-2) and Internet standards (see IETF language tag).
^ Trudgill and Hannah, International English (4th edition), p. 76.
Machismo ... or masochism? Archived 12 November 2011 at the Wayback Machine, The Irish Times – Saturday 22 March 2008
^ Denis, Derek (5 October 2016). "A note on mans in Toronto". Toronto Working Papers in Linguistics. 37. doi:10.33137/twpl.v37i0.26973.
In Canada, a committee is struck, whereas in the US committees are appointed, formed, or created, etc.
Douglas Hunter, Double Double: How Tim Hortons Became a Canadian Way of Life, One Cup at a Time. HarperCollins, 2012. ISBN 978-1443406741.
Smarties: a bean-sized, small candy-covered chocolate, similar to plain M&M's. This is also seen in British English. Smarties in the United States refer to small tart powdered disc sold in rolls; in Canada these tart candies are sold as "Rockets".
Like most varieties of CanE, Maritimer English contains Canadian raising.
Dollinger, Stefan, Laurel J. Brinton and Margery Fee (2013). DCHP-1 Online: A Dictionary of Canadiansims on Historical Principles. 1st Edition. Ed. by Walter S. Avis et al. (1967).
The Grammarist, "Aluminium vs. aluminum". Retrieved 2 June 2018. available at: http://grammarist.com/spelling/aluminium-aluminum/ Archived 20 June 2018 at the Wayback Machine
There are also genericized trademarks used in Canada:cheezies: cheese puffs. The name is a genericized trademark based on a brand of crunchy cheese snack sold in Canada.Kraft Dinner or "KD": for any packaged dry macaroni and cheese mix, even when it is not produced by Kraft.
Sellar, Don (8 March 1997). "Let's hear what the readers say". Toronto Star. p. C2.
^ Nosowitz, Dan (10 January 2017). "Why Do Canadians Say 'Eh'?: The story behind Canada's most distinctive verbal tic". Atlas Obscura. Atlas Obscura. Retrieved 12 January 2017.
The government also recommends use of the 24-hour clock, which is widely used in contexts such as transportation schedules, parking meters, and data transmission.[73] Many speakers of English use the 12-hour clock in everyday speech, even when reading from a 24-hour display, similar to the use of the 24-hour clock in the United Kingdom.
Even though the terms French fries and fries are used by Canadians, some speakers use the word chips (and its diminutive, chippies) (chips is always used when referring to fish and chips, as elsewhere).
There are a handful of syntactical practices unique to Canadian English. When writing, Canadians may start a sentence with As well, in the sense of "in addition"; this construction is a Canadianism.[66]
Vi-Co: occasionally used in Saskatchewan instead of chocolate milk. Formerly a brand of chocolate milk.
Judges of Canada's superior courts, which exist at the provincial and territorial levels, are traditionally addressed as "My Lord" or "My Lady". This varies by jurisdiction, and some superior court judges prefer the titles "Mister Justice" or "Madam Justice" to "Lordship".
The dialect spoken in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, an autonomous dominion until 31 March 1949, is often considered the most distinctive Canadian English dialect. Some Newfoundland English differs in vowel pronunciation, morphology, syntax, and preservation of archaic adverbial-intensifiers. The dialect can vary markedly from community to community, as well as from region to region, reflecting ethnic origin as well as a past in which there were few roads and many communities, and fishing villages in particular remained very isolated. A few speakers have a transitional pin–pen merger.[11]
"2006 Census Highlights – Mother tongue and Language" (PDF). Ontario Ministry of Finance. Retrieved 7 February 2017.
Boberg, Charles (2010). The English Language in Canada: Status, History and Comparative Analysis. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-511-78981-6.
When a majority of the elected members of the House of Commons or a provincial legislature are not members of the same party as the government, the situation is referred to as a minority government rather than a hung Parliament.
^ Honderich, John (13 September 1997). "How your Star is changing". Toronto Star. p. A2.
Some nouns, as in British English, take -ce while corresponding verbs take -se – for example, practice and licence are nouns while practise and license are the respective corresponding verbs. (But advice and advise, which have distinct pronunciations, are universal.)
Stone, Laura (27 September 2011). "Looking for true Canadian English, there? Go north". Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd. Retrieved 5 August 2014.
A two-way ticket can be either a round-trip (American term) or a return (British term).
The term college, which refers to post-secondary education in general in the US, refers in Canada to either a post-secondary technical or vocational institution, or to one of the colleges that exist as federated schools within some Canadian universities. Most often, a college is a community college, not a university. It may also refer to a CEGEP in Quebec. In Canada, college student might denote someone obtaining a diploma in business management (this would be an associate degree in the United States); while university student is the term for someone earning a bachelor's degree. For that reason, going to college in Canada does not have the same meaning as going to university, unless the speaker or context clarifies the specific level of post-secondary education that is meant.
^ Stone, Laura (27 September 2011). "Looking for true Canadian English, there? Go north". Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd. Retrieved 5 August 2014.
^ Allemang, John (1 September 1990). "Contemplating a U-turn". The Globe and Mail. p. D6.
^ Dollinger, Stefan; Clarke, Sandra (2012). "On the autonomy and homogeneity of Canadian English". World Englishes. 31 (4): 449–466. doi:10.1111/j.1467-971X.2012.01773.x.
^ a b Hickey, Raymond (9 December 2013). A Dictionary of Varieties of English. doi:10.1002/9781118602607. ISBN 9781118602607.
What most Americans call a candy bar is usually known as a chocolate bar (as in the United Kingdom). In certain areas surrounding the Bay of Fundy, it is sometimes known as a nut bar; this use is more popular in older generations. Legally only bars made of solid chocolate may be labelled chocolate bars.[109]
^ Avis, Walter S. (1967). A Dictionary of Canadianisms on Historical Principles. Toronto, ON: Gage Ltd. pp. s.v. "Canadian English". OCLC 299968792.
In terms of the major sound systems (phonologies) of English around the world, Canadian English aligns most closely to American English, both being grouped together under a common North American English sound system; the mainstream Canadian accent ("Standard Canadian") is often compared to the very similar and largely overlapping "General American" accent, an accent widely spoken throughout the United States and perceived there as being relatively lacking in any noticeable regional features.
^ Fruehwald, Josef; Myler, Neil (2015). "I'm done my homework—Case assignment in a stative passive". Linguistic Variation, 15(2), Section 3.1.1.
^ Labov, Ash and Boberg (2005). The Atlas of North American English. Berlin: de Gruyter. pp. Chapter 20.
First Nations and Inuit from Northern Canada speak a version of Canadian English influenced by the phonology of their first languages. European Canadians in these regions are relatively recent arrivals, and have not produced a dialect that is distinct from southern Canadian English.[57]
The term First Nations is often used in Canada to refer to what are called American Indians or Native Americans in the United States. This term does not include the Métis and Inuit."Aboriginal peoples" is preferred when all three groups are included. The term Eskimo has been replaced by the term Inuit in the past few decades. It is now considered offensive to use the term Eskimo, but is still used commonly (without pejorative intent) by those born in the early-mid-20th century.
The following are common in Canada, but not in the United States or the United Kingdom.
^ "Herald's move to Canadian spellings a labour of love". Calgary Herald. 2 September 1998. p. A2.
Canadian English (CanE, CE, en-CA)[5] encompasses the varieties of English native to Canada. According to the 2016 census, English was the first language of 19.4 million Canadians or 58.1% of the total population; the remainder spoke French (20.8%) or other languages (21.1%).[6] In Quebec, 7.5% of the population are anglophone, as most of Quebec's residents are native speakers of Quebec French.[7]
Chambers, J. K. (Fall 1973). "Canadian raising". Canadian Journal of Linguistics. 18 (2): 113–135. doi:10.1017/S0008413100007350. S2CID 247196050.
^ Dollinger, Stefan (2011). "Academic and public attitudes to the notion of 'standard' Canadian English". Archived from the original on 21 October 2017. Retrieved 26 January 2018.
^ "Dynamique des langues en quelques chiffres : Tableaux – Secrétariat à la politique linguistique". spl.gouv.qc.ca (in French). Archived from the original on 7 December 2016. Retrieved 5 February 2017.
A linguistic enclave has also formed in the Ottawa Valley, heavily influenced by original Scottish, Irish, and German settlers, and existing along the Ontario-Quebec boundary, which has its own distinct accent known as the Ottawa Valley twang (or brogue).[61] Phonetically, the Ottawa Valley twang is characterized by the lack of Canadian raising as well as the cot–caught merger, two common elements of mainstream Canadian English. This accent is quite rare in the region today.[62]
^ Scargill, Matthew H. 1957. Sources of Canadian English. Journal of English and Germanic Philology 56: 611-614
In Canada, visible minority refers to a non-aboriginal person or group visibly not one of the majority race in a given population. The term comes from the Canadian Employment Equity Act, which defines such people as "persons, other than Aboriginal people, who are non-Caucasian in race or non-white in colour."[81] The term is used as a demographic category by Statistics Canada. The qualifier "visible" is used to distinguish such minorities from the "invisible" minorities determined by language (English vs. French) and certain distinctions in religion (Catholics vs. Protestants).[82][citation needed]
"proctor | Definition of proctor in English by Oxford Dictionaries". Oxford Dictionaries | English. Archived from the original on 5 March 2018. Retrieved 5 March 2018.
"proctor | Definition of proctor in English by Oxford Dictionaries"
^ OUP.com Archived 30 January 2010 at the Wayback Machine
The terms highway (for example, Trans-Canada Highway), expressway (Central Canada, as in the Gardiner Expressway) and freeway (Sherwood Park Freeway, Edmonton) are often used to describe various high-speed roads with varying levels of access control. Generally, but not exclusively, highway refers to any provincially funded road regardless of its access control. Often such roads will be numbered. Similar to the US, the terms expressway and freeway are often used interchangeably to refer to controlled-access highways, that is, divided highways with access only at grade-separated interchanges (for example, a 400-Series Highway in Ontario).
hydro: a common synonym for electrical service, used primarily in New Brunswick, Quebec, Ontario, Manitoba and British Columbia. Most of the power in these provinces is generated through hydroelectricity, and suppliers' company names incorporate the term "Hydro". Usage: "I didn't pay my hydro bill so they shut off my lights." Hence hydrofield or hydro corridor, a line of electricity transmission towers, usually in groups cutting across a city, and hydro lines/poles, electrical transmission lines/poles.[99] These usages of hydro are also standard in the Australian state of Tasmania. Also in slang usage can refer to hydroponically grown marijuana.
"Factors which shaped the varieties of English". AskOxford.com. Archived from the original on 14 May 2008. Retrieved 26 February 2011.
^ Visible Minority Population and Population Group Reference Guide, 2006 Census Archived 11 December 2008 at the Wayback Machine from StatsCan
cutlery, for silverware or flatware, where the material of which the utensil is made is not of consequence to the context in which it is used.
For example, most English Canadians state their weight and height in pounds and feet/inches, respectively. This is also the case for many Quebec Francophones. Distances while playing golf are always marked and discussed in yards, though official scorecards may also show metres. Temperatures for cooking or pools are often given in Fahrenheit, while the weather is given in Celsius. Directions in the Prairie provinces are sometimes given using miles, because the country roads generally follow the mile-based grid of the Dominion Land Survey. Motor vehicle speed limits are measured in kilometres per hour.
Bloomfield, Morton W. 1948. Bloomfield, Morton W. 1948. Canadian English and its relation to eighteenth century American speech. Journal of English and Germanic Philology 47: 59-66
McKinnie, Meghan and Jennifer Dailey-O'Cain. 2002. A perceptual dialectology of Anglophone Canada from the perspective of young Albertans and Ontarians. In Handbook of Perceptual Dialectology. Vol. 2, ed. by Daniel Long, 277-94. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
^ Barber, Katherine, ed. (2004). The Canadian Oxford dictionary (2nd ed.). Oxford University Press. p. 1580. ISBN 9780195418163. Because both of these meanings are in use in Canada, confusion may arise if the verb table is used outside of a strictly parliamentary context, where the first sense [bring forward] should be understood. It is better to use a different verb altogether, such as present or postpone, as the context requires.
"The past, present, and future of Canadian English: What our accent tells us about being Canadian"
brown bread refers to whole-wheat bread, as in "Would you like white or brown bread for your toast?"
The Atlas of North American English: Phonetics, Phonology, and Sound Change
flush: toilet, used primarily by older speakers throughout the Maritimes.
Successive years of school are usually referred to as grade one, grade two, and so on. In Quebec, the speaker (if Francophone) will often say primary one, primary two (a direct translation from the French), and so on; while Anglophones will say grade one, grade two. (Compare American first grade, second grade (sporadically found in Canada), and English/Welsh Year 1, Year 2, Scottish/Northern Irish Primary 1, Primary 2 or P1, P2, and Southern Irish First Class, Second Class and so on.).[76] The year of school before grade 1 is usually called "Kindergarten", with the exception of Nova Scotia, where it is called "grade primary".
Dollinger, Stefan (26 August 2010). "New data for an English usage puzzle: the long history of spelling variation in Canadian English and its linguistic implications" (PDF). Icehl-16.pte.hu. Retrieved 20 August 2017. Paper given at the 16th International Conference on English Historical Linguistics, Pécs, Hungary
2Overtaking on the inside											Toggle Overtaking on the inside subsection																					2.1Legal status by country
Overtaking or passing is the act of one vehicle going past another slower moving vehicle, travelling in the same direction, on a road. The lane used for overtaking another vehicle is often a passing lane farther from the road shoulder, which is to the left in places that drive on the right and to the right in places that drive on the left.
^ "Autos müssen beim Überholen von Radfahrern 1,5 Meter Abstand halten!". Westerwald Kurier. 9 November 2020. Retrieved November 18, 2022.
The Netherlands has ruled out overtaking on 95% of their single carriageway primary road network. Statistics from before 1990 showed that many fatal accidents in the Netherlands were due to unsafe overtaking actions, where the speed of oncoming traffic was underestimated. During the 1990s a new road design was introduced, called 'Duurzaam Veilig (Verkeer)', or "Sustainable (Road) Safety".[6] The philosophy behind the new road design was that the road had to protect its users against death or injury, by creating a design that has to eliminate common mistakes that often lead to accidents.[7] This vision moves the responsibility for road safety away from the road users towards road designers.[8] The 'Duurzaam Veilig'-road design created 3 categories of roads: roads meant for local access, regional distributor roads (called 'gebiedsontsluitingswegen', or GOW) [9] and national through roads, each with their own type of lines on the edge of the road, so road users would be able to recognize what type of road they were on and behave accordingly.[10] By strictly separating slow moving local traffic from faster moving through traffic, the 'Duurzaam Veilig'-project aimed at making roads safer through their design.[11]
"M-way overtaking ban for lorries". BBC News. 2004-12-03. Retrieved 12 October 2006.
Netherlands –Undertaking is specifically prohibited, exceptions include vehicles waiting to turn left, traffic congestion and on roundabouts.
Spain –Undertaking is specifically prohibited, except for inner-city traffic, passing a vehicle clearly turning left or in congested conditions.
Ewan Tytler (1999). "The Responsibility of Overtaking". autosport.com. Retrieved 12 October 2006.
The National Safety Council (NSC Ireland). "Tutorial: Overtaking: How to Overtake Safely". John Ryan –Driving School Ireland.
Bob Kenyon (1996-12-19). "Spanish no-overtaking road signs". –a gallery of "no overtaking" road signs used in Spain
Ireland –Undertaking permitted in three prescribed cases: 1) You want to go straight ahead when the driver in front of you has moved out and signalled that they intend to turn right. 2) You have signalled that you intend to turn left, 3)Traffic in both lanes is moving slowly but traffic in the left-hand lane is moving more quickly than the right-hand lane – for example, in slow moving stop/start traffic conditions.
^ [pubdocs.worldbank.org/en/912871516999678053/Report-Safe-Systems-final.pdf Sustainable & Safe, vision and guidance for zero road deaths] report written by Global Road Safety Facility (GRSF), with support of World Bank and Bloomberg Philanthropy, retrieved 15 December 2019
Hauer, E. (1971). "Accidents, Overtaking, and Speed control". Accident Analysis & Prevention. 3: 1–13. doi:10.1016/0001-4575(71)90016-9.
Overtaking on the inside or undertaking[16][17][18] refers to the practice of overtaking a slower vehicle on a road using the lane that is kerb side of the vehicle being passed; that is to say, a lane to the left of the vehicle in countries where driving is on the left, or a lane to the right of the vehicle in countries where driving is on the right. The practice of passing on the inside, therefore, usually only occurs on a motorway or other road where there is more than one lane in the same direction or when the width of the roads makes this possible (although there may be exceptions in the cases of contraflow bus lanes).
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Key driving skills: The Official New Zealand Road Code". NZ Transport Agency.
[pubdocs.worldbank.org/en/912871516999678053/Report-Safe-Systems-final.pdf Sustainable & Safe, vision and guidance for zero road deaths] report written by Global Road Safety Facility (GRSF), with support of World Bank and Bloomberg Philanthropy, retrieved 15 December 2019
In countries bounded by Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, article 11[15] states that:
Australia and New Zealand –Undertaking is legal on multi-lane roads, or where a car is indicating to turn right.[17][19]
Romania –Undertaking is specifically prohibited, exceptions include vehicles waiting to turn left, traffic congestion and on roundabouts.
On a dual-carriageway/divided-carriageway highway/motorway or arterial road, any lane can be an overtaking lane though in many places (including Germany) undertaking (overtaking on the side furthest from the road center line) is prohibited. Lanes are normally separated by broken lines (usually white) but may be a single solid white to indicate lane-changing is allowed but discouraged.Double lines indicate that lane-changing (for example to overtake) is prohibited, such as in tunnels or sometimes for HOV lanes and HOT lanes.
Many countries consider overtaking on the inside dangerous and therefore designate it a driving offence; however, most countries make the distinction between involuntary undertaking (passing centre side vehicles in heavy traffic) as opposed to the deliberate attempt to pass a slower moving vehicle for one's own benefit.
In racing, the rules allow overtaking from either side. Generally, the sides are classified as inside and outside overtaking, depending on the position of the overtaking car at the next curve since start of overtaking. The defending car usually blocks inside overtaking, because outside overtaking is riskier than inside overtaking.
"Færdselsloven". Article 21, LBK No. 1386 of 12 November 2013 (in Danish).
^ "Færdselsloven". Article 24, LBK No. 1386 of 12 November 2013 (in Danish).
Overtaking in an HOV or HOT lane is usually illegal for cars that do not meet the HOV/HOT criteria, except when directed by the police.
Find sources: "Overtaking" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Overtaking is usually forbidden where a pedestrian crossing is marked on the carriageway
Germany –Undertaking is specifically prohibited, exceptions exist for inner-city traffic and overtaking trams and vehicles waiting to turn left.
Poland –Undertaking is legal on 4-lane roads in built-up areas, 6-lane roads outside built-up areas and on one-way roads with marked lanes (this definition includes motorways) (article 24 of Law on Road Traffic). However, similar to the UK, it is considered a dangerous practice and is discouraged.
Ian Walker (August 2006). "Drivers over taking bicyclists" (PDF). Accident Analysis & Prevention. 39 (2): 417–425. doi:10.1016/j.aap.2006.08.010. PMID 17064655. –a paper funded by the EPSRC to investigate how drivers overtake cyclists
1.2In other countries																								1.2.1Nationwide ban on overtaking as road safety measure
Many jurisdictions mandate a safe overtaking distance when passing pedestrians, cyclists, persons on horseback, motorcyclists, or those on motorized scooters. For instance, Germany and the United Kingdom both prescribe a horizontal overtaking distance of at least 1.5 metres (5 ft).[5][2]
Denmark –Undertaking is specifically prohibited, unless passing a vehicle clearly turning left or riding a bicycle or small moped.[20] However, drivers may pass other vehicles to the right in certain circumstances; these include heavy traffic where the speed is determined by the next vehicle and vehicles in reserved lanes.[21]
United States –Undertaking is typically allowed on multi-lane roadways or to pass left-turning vehicles.[25][26][27][28][29]State laws can vary as to the situations that permit undertaking.
Ten years of Sustainable Safety in the Netherlands; An assessment published by Stichting Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek Verkeersveiligheid (SWOV), Foundation for scientific research on traffic safety, retrieved 15 December 2019
^ California Vehicle Code Archived 2015-07-21 at the Wayback Machine § 21754
Driving Standards Agency (2005-03-15). Driving. The Stationery Office. pp. 119–122. ISBN 978-0-11-552641-1.
Tay Wilson (1998-03-30). "Seniors' driving style and overtaking: Is there a "comfortable traffic hole"?". Contemporary Ergonomics 1998. Taylor & Francis. ISBN 978-0-7484-0811-5.
Summala H. & Naatanen, R. (1988). "The zero-risk theory and overtaking decisions".In T. Rothengatter & R. de Bruin (eds.). Road user behaviour: Theory and research. Assen Maastrich: Van Gorcum. pp. 82–92.
^ "Principles for safe road design". SWOV – Dutch Institute for Road Safety Research. Retrieved 15 December 2019.
Inside refers to the edge of the road closest to the kerb and outside closest to the centre.
Drivers should check the following driver is not overtaking them, drivers ahead have not warned of their intention to overtake, the lane is clear far enough ahead, and the lane is available to continue driving once the overtaking manoeuver is completed.
Sustainable Safety in the Netherlands: the vision, the implementation and the safety effects, published by Stichting Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek Verkeersveiligheid (SWOV), Foundation for scientific research on traffic safety, retrieved 15 December 2019
^ "Færdselsloven". Article 21, LBK No. 1386 of 12 November 2013 (in Danish).
"Autos müssen beim Überholen von Radfahrern 1,5 Meter Abstand halten!"
Sustainable Safety in the Netherlands: the vision, the implementation and the safety effects
Ten years of Sustainable Safety in the Netherlands; An assessment
"Autos müssen beim Überholen von Radfahrern 1,5 Meter Abstand halten!". Westerwald Kurier. 9 November 2020. Retrieved November 18, 2022.
Russia –Undertaking used to be known as "overtaking on the right" and was prohibited by the Road Rules until 2010. In 2010, a new term was introduced to the Road Rules, "passing", and applies to overtaking that does not make use of the oncoming lane. Therefore, undertaking was made legal, unless it would involve the use of the shoulder or sidewalk.
On a single-carriageway/undivided-highway road, the lane used for overtaking is often the same lane that is used by oncoming traffic. An overtaking vehicle must be able to see clearly ahead of them for the entire overtaking manoeuvre plus a margin of error. For example, in New Zealand it's instructed in the Road Code that an overtaking driver must be able to see at least 100 metres (330 ft) of clear road in front of them as they finish the passing manoeuvre.[1] In the UK, guidance for passing and overtaking is given in rules 162-169[2] of the Highway Code.
A few places also use the one-broken/one-solid marking at slip roads/entrance ramps, to indicate to highway drivers that the new lane merges and does not continue, so they do not attempt to overtake in a lane that ends shortly.This is also used at other points where lanes merge.
1Rules of overtaking											Toggle Rules of overtaking subsection																					1.1In English-speaking countries																											1.2In other countries																								1.2.1Nationwide ban on overtaking as road safety measure																														1.3Vienna Convention on Road Traffic
^ Sustainable Safety in the Netherlands: the vision, the implementation and the safety effects, published by Stichting Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek Verkeersveiligheid (SWOV), Foundation for scientific research on traffic safety, retrieved 15 December 2019
"Principles for safe road design". SWOV – Dutch Institute for Road Safety Research. Retrieved 15 December 2019.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Overtaking" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ Distributor road published by Cycling Embassy of Great Britain, retrieved 15 December 2019
California Vehicle Code Archived 2015-07-21 at the Wayback Machine § 21754
This page was last edited on 1 March 2023, at 22:07 (UTC).
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Key driving skills: The Official New Zealand Road Code". NZ Transport Agency.
^ Inside refers to the edge of the road closest to the kerb and outside closest to the centre.
New York State Law Title VII Article 25 Section 1123
In some jurisdictions, the "overtaking zone" is indicated by a single broken centerline (yellow or white in most countries) if overtaking is allowed in either direction, or paired with a single solid line beside it to indicate there is no overtaking from the solid side. In the UK[3] and New Zealand, the format of the centerline is not used to regulate overtaking, only to indicate whether crossing of the line is prohibited or permitted. In Australia,[4] drivers can cross a solid centerline to overtake a cyclist.
"Lorry Operators Challenge M42 Overtaking Ban". Transport News Network. 2005-11-04. Archived from the original on 2007-09-27. Retrieved 12 October 2006.
Wilson, T; Best, W (1982). "Driving strategies in overtaking". Accident Analysis & Prevention. 14 (3): 179–185. doi:10.1016/0001-4575(82)90026-4.
"Færdselsloven". Article 24, LBK No. 1386 of 12 November 2013 (in Danish).
overtaking on two-way carriageways might be forbidden according to the nearness of the crest of a hill or the longitudinal road markings
United Kingdom –The Highway Code discourages undertaking on motorways with some exceptions (rule 268): "Do not overtake on the left or move to a lane on your left to overtake". Undertaking is permitted in congested conditions when frequent lane changing is not recommended.[22] On other roads, the Code advises drivers "should only overtake on the left if the vehicle in front is signalling to turn right" (rule 163).[23] Rule 163 uses advisory wording and "will not, in itself, cause a person to be prosecuted", but may be used in evidence to establishing liability in any court proceedings.[24] On all roads, undertaking is permitted if the vehicles in the lane to the right are queueing and slow moving.[citation needed] Undertaking in an aggressive or reckless manner could be considered Careless Driving or more seriously Dangerous Driving, both of which are legally enforceable offences.[dubious– discuss][citation needed]
Finland –Undertaking is specifically prohibited, except for inner-city traffic and vehicle waiting to turn left or on the motorway if the vehicles in the lane to the left are queueing and slow moving.
In the Republic of Ireland, many national primary roads were upgraded in the 1990s and 2000s to wide two-lane road (two-lane road with space for three lanes, in addition to hard shoulders) to allow more space for overtaking (a very common manoeuvre in a country that had little dual carriageway until the early 2000s). However, due to the deceptive perception of safety given by such roads, future upgrade projects are likely to be 2+1 road where traffic volume suits (a successful pilot installation was used on the N20 near Mallow, County Cork). This form of road is of similar profile to wide two-lane, but includes a central crash barrier, and has three lanes, with an overtaking lane on one side or the other, alternating every 2 km. It has been used in Denmark and Sweden since the 1990s.
Brown ID, Tickner AH, Simmonds DC (March 1970). "Effect of prolonged driving on overtaking criteria". Ergonomics. 13 (2): 239–242. doi:10.1080/00140137008931137. PMID 5432365.
^ New York State Law Title VII Article 25 Section 1123
Hungary –Undertaking is prohibited outside built-up areas. Inside built-up areas, passing on the right is permitted, but only if there are road markings. The undertaking manoeuvre in built-up areas is referred to as "driving in parallel traffic" instead of "passing on the right" as it is used outside built-up areas.
France –Undertaking is specifically prohibited, except for vehicle waiting to turn left or if the vehicles in the lane to the left are queueing and slow moving.
^ Ten years of Sustainable Safety in the Netherlands; An assessment published by Stichting Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek Verkeersveiligheid (SWOV), Foundation for scientific research on traffic safety, retrieved 15 December 2019
The no-overtaking-sign looks a lot the same in most European countries, but its legal description differs between countries. Depending on the text of law, in some countries in Europe the no-overtaking-sign bans overtaking only for vehicles that have three or more wheels, effectively granting motorcycle drivers the freedom to overtake cars even past the no-overtaking-sign, where the same sign rules out overtaking for all types of vehicles in neighboring countries. In other jurisdictions, like the Netherlands, overtaking vehicles that have only 2 wheels is not forbidden, despite the no-overtaking sign. The law text 'overtaking vehicles on more than two wheels' allows for overtaking bicycles, of which there are many on Dutch roads.
Distributor road published by Cycling Embassy of Great Britain, retrieved 15 December 2019
