Another problem with logical fatalism is that first you must accept there is a timeless set of all propositions which exist without being proposed by anyone in particular.Constructivists (a school of thought in logic and maths) would argue that this is not the case, and that propositions only exist when they are constructed, or expressed.
Explore																																														Main Page																																	All Pages																																	Community																																	Interactive Maps																																	Recent Blog Posts
The key idea of logical fatalism is that there is a body of true propositions (statements) about what is going to happen, and these are true regardless of when they are made.So, for example, if it is true today that tomorrow there will be a sea battle, then there cannot fail to be a sea battle tomorrow, since otherwise it would be not be true today that such a battle will take place.
Journals																																							Psychology journals																															British Journal of Clinical Psychology																															British Journal of Developmental Psychology																															British Journal of Educational Psychology																															British Journal of Health Psychology																															British Journal of Mathematical and Statistical Psychology																															British Journal of Medical Psychology
Animal behavior																																							CompPsy																															Behavioral ecology																															Animal ethology																															Imprinting (psychology)																															Rat model																															Rat: Physiological psychology																															Ape model
Philosophy Index:Aesthetics · Epistemology · Ethics · Logic · Metaphysics ·Consciousness ·Philosophy of Language ·Philosophy of Mind · Philosophy of Science ·Social and Political philosophy ·Philosophies ·Philosophers · List of lists
That free will does not exist, meaning therefore that history has progressed in the only manner possible. [2] This belief is very similar to determinism.
While the idle argument applies fatalism on the effect side (i.e., the recovery from illness), it does not apply fatalism to the cause side. Literalist fatalists apply it to both sides of the cause and effect. While the fact that you will recover or not is left to fate, fatalists believe it is also pre-determined whether or not you will call the doctor.
Determinists generally agree that human actions affect the future, although that future is predetermined. Their view does not accentuate a "submission" to fate, whereas fatalists stress an acceptance of all events as inevitable. In other words, determinists believe the future is fixed because of action and causality, whereas fatalists and many predestinarians think the future is ineluctable despite causality.
While the terms are often used interchangeably, fatalism, determinism, and predestination are discrete in emphasizing different aspects of the futility of human will or the foreordination of destiny. However, all these doctrines share common ground.
That actions are free, but nevertheless work toward an inevitable end. [3] This belief is very similar to compatibilist predestination.
That acceptance is appropriate, rather than resistance against inevitability. This belief is very similar to defeatism.
A flawed perception of the consequences of exercised free will, ignorance (or Avidya), and forgetfulness (or Adristi).[1]
Fatalism is a philosophical doctrine emphasizing the subjugation of all events or actions to fate or inevitable predetermination.
It is either fated that you will recover from your illness, or that you will not recover from your illness.
newly_changed																																							Tongue																															Age discrimination																															Vladimir Bekhterev																															Dependent and independent variables																															Eczema																															Coefficient of relationship																															Victor Skumin
If it is fated for you to recover from your illness, then you will recover whether you call a doctor or not.
Likewise, if you are fated not to recover, you will not do so even if you call a doctor.
The logical argument for fatalism is one that depends not on causation or physical circumstances but rather argues based on logical necessity.There are numerous versions of this argument, but the most famous are by Aristotle[5] and Richard Taylor[6].These have been objected to and elaborated on[7] but very few people accept them.
Assessment | Biopsychology | Comparative |Cognitive | Developmental | Language | Individual differences |Personality | Philosophy | Social |Methods |Statistics |Clinical | Educational | Industrial |Professional items |World psychology |
The argument relies heavily on the principle of bivalence, the idea that any proposition is either true or false.As a result of this principle, if it is not false that there will be a sea battle, then it is true; there is no in-between.However, rejecting the principle of bivalance—perhaps by saying that the truth of a proposition about the future is indeterminate—is a controversial view, since the principle is an accepted part of classical logic.
Fatalism is a broader term than determinism. The presence of history indeterminisms/chances, i.e. events that could not be predicted by sole knowledge of other events, does not exclude fatalism. Necessity (such as a law of nature) will happen just as inevitably as a chance – both can be imagined as sovereign
Therefore, in determinism, if the past were different, the present and future would differ also. For fatalists, such a question is negligible, since no other present/future/past could exist except what exists now.
One ancient argument for fatalism, called the idle argument,[4] went like this:
Determinists generally agree that human actions affect the future but that human action is itself determined by a causal chain of prior events. Their view does not accentuate a "submission" to fate or destiny, whereas fatalists stress an acceptance of future events as inevitable. Determinists believe the future is fixed specifically due to causality; fatalists and predeterminists believe that some or all aspects of the future are inescapable but, for fatalists, not necessarily due to causality.[16]
^ Barnes, E. J. (1984). The complete works of Aristotle, de interpretatione IX. princeton: Princeton University press.
"Aristotle, De Interpretatione, 9". Archived from the original on 31 March 2007. Retrieved 17 February 2007.
One such view is theological fatalism, according to which free will is incompatible with the existence of an omniscient God who has foreknowledge of all future events.[4] This is very similar to theological determinism.[a]
^ a b c d e f Balcerowicz, Piotr (2016). "Determinism, Ājīvikas, and Jainism". Early Asceticism in India: Ājīvikism and Jainism. Routledge Advances in Jaina Studies (1st ed.). London and New York: Routledge. pp. 136–174. ISBN 9781317538530. The Ājīvikas' doctrinal signature was indubitably the idea of determinism and fate, which traditionally incorporated four elements: the doctrine of destiny (niyati-vāda), the doctrine of predetermined concurrence of factors (saṅgati-vāda), the doctrine of intrinsic nature (svabhāva-vāda), occasionally also linked to materialists, and the doctrine of fate (daiva-vāda), or simply fatalism. The Ājīvikas' emphasis on fate and determinism was so profound that later sources would consistently refer to them as niyati-vādins, or 'the propounders of the doctrine of destiny'.
Mackie, Penelope. “Fatalism, Incompatibilism, and the Power To Do Otherwise” Noûs, vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 672-689, December 2003
But either it is fated that you will recover from this illness, or it is fated that you will not recover.
The main argument for logical fatalism goes back to antiquity. This is an argument that depends not on causation or physical circumstances but rather is based on presumed logical truths. There are numerous versions of this argument, including those by Aristotle[23] and Richard Taylor.[3] These arguments have been objected to and elaborated on with some effect.[24]
Fatalism is a looser term than determinism. The presence of historical "indeterminisms" or chances, i.e. events that could not be predicted by sole knowledge of other events, is an idea still compatible with fatalism. Necessity (such as a law of nature) will happen just as inevitably as a chance—both can be imagined as sovereign.[1] This idea has roots in Aristotle's work, "De interpretatione".[17]
Another Buddhist concept which many scholars perceive to be deterministic is the idea of non-self, or anatta.[14] In Buddhism, attaining enlightenment involves one realizing that in humans there is no fundamental core of being which can be called the "soul", and that humans are instead made of several constantly changing factors which bind them to the cycle of Saṃsāra.[14]
^ "Aristotle, De Interpretatione, 9". Archived from the original on 31 March 2007. Retrieved 17 February 2007.
Theological fatalism is the thesis that infallible foreknowledge of a human act makes the act necessary and hence unfree. If there is a being who knows the entire future infallibly, then no human act is free.[18] The early Islamic philosopher, Al Farabi, makes the case that if God does in fact know all human actions and choices, then Aristotle's original solution to this dilemma stands.[19]
Susanne Bobzien, Determinism and Freedom in Stoic Philosophy, Oxford 1998, chapter 5
Solomon, Robert C. (October 2003). "On Fate and Fatalism". Philosophy East and West. University of Hawaii Press. 53 (4): 435–454. doi:10.1353/pew.2003.0047. JSTOR 1399977. S2CID 170753493.
^ Zagzebski, Linda, "Foreknowledge and Free Will", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2017 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = .
The idea that the entire universe is a deterministic system has been articulated in both Eastern and non-Eastern religions, philosophy, and literature.
Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia.
^ a b "Anatta | Buddhism". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 26 January 2020.
^ a b Taylor, Richard (January 1962). "Fatalism". The Philosophical Review. Duke University Press. 71 (1): 56–66. doi:10.2307/2183681. JSTOR 2183681.
Stambaugh, Joan (1994). Other Nietzsche, The. SUNY Press. p. 81. ISBN 9781438420929.
Bodewitz, Henk (2019). "Chapter 1 – The Hindu Doctrine of Transmigration: Its Origin and Background".In Heilijgers, Dory H.; Houben, Jan E. M.; van Kooij, Karel (eds.). Vedic Cosmology and Ethics: Selected Studies. Gonda Indological Studies. Vol. 19. Leiden and Boston: Brill Publishers. pp. 3–19. doi:10.1163/9789004400139_002. ISBN 978-90-04-40013-9. ISSN 1382-3442.
You should also add the template {{Translated|de|Fatalismus}} to the talk page.
If it is fated for you to recover from this illness, then you will recover whether you call a doctor or not.
^ a b c d Basham, Arthur L. (1981) [1951]. "Chapter XII: Niyati". History and Doctrines of the Ājīvikas, a Vanished Indian Religion. Lala L. S. Jain Series (1st ed.). Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass. pp. 224–238. ISBN 9788120812048. OCLC 633493794. The fundamental principle of Ājīvika philosophy was Fate, usually called Niyati. Buddhist and Jaina sources agree that Gosāla was a rigid determinist, who exalted Niyati to the status of the motive factor of the universe and the sole agent of all phenomenal change. This is quite clear in our locus classicus, the Samaññaphala Sutta. Sin and suffering, attributed by other sects to the laws of karma, the result of evil committed in the previous lives or in the present one, were declared by Gosāla to be without cause or basis, other, presumably, than the force of destiny. Similarly, the escape from evil, the working off of accumulated evil karma, was likewise without cause or basis.
^ Hoefer, Carl, "Causal Determinism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2016 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.)
^ Al-Farabi. (1981). Commentary on Aristotle's De Interpretatione. Translated by F.W.Zimmerman,. Oxford: Oxford university press.
^ a b c Ryerson, James (12 December 2008). "Consider the Philosopher". The New York Times.
The term "fatalism" can refer to any of the following ideas:
Balcerowicz, Piotr (2016). "Determinism, Ājīvikas, and Jainism". Early Asceticism in India: Ājīvikism and Jainism. Routledge Advances in Jaina Studies (1st ed.). London and New York: Routledge. pp. 136–174. ISBN 9781317538530. The Ājīvikas' doctrinal signature was indubitably the idea of determinism and fate, which traditionally incorporated four elements: the doctrine of destiny (niyati-vāda), the doctrine of predetermined concurrence of factors (saṅgati-vāda), the doctrine of intrinsic nature (svabhāva-vāda), occasionally also linked to materialists, and the doctrine of fate (daiva-vāda), or simply fatalism. The Ājīvikas' emphasis on fate and determinism was so profound that later sources would consistently refer to them as niyati-vādins, or 'the propounders of the doctrine of destiny'.
^ Stambaugh, Joan (1994). Other Nietzsche, The. SUNY Press. p. 81. ISBN 9781438420929.
Goldstein, Joseph. "Dependent Origination: The Twelve Links Explained". Tricycle: The Buddhist Review. Retrieved 26 January 2020.
The ancient Arabs that inhabitated the Arabian Peninsula before the advent of Islam used to profess a widespread belief in fatalism (ḳadar) alongside a fearful consideration for the sky and the stars as divine beings, which they held to be ultimately responsible for every phenomena that occurs on Earth and for the destiny of humankind.[7] Accordingly, they shaped their entire lives in accordance with their interpretations of astral configurations and phenomena.[7]
Buddhist philosophy contains several concepts which some scholars describe as deterministic to various levels. However, the direct analysis of Buddhist metaphysics through the lens of determinism is difficult, due to the differences between European and Buddhist traditions of thought.
One famous ancient argument regarding fatalism was the so-called Idle Argument. It argues that if something is fated, then it would be pointless or futile to make any effort to bring it about. The Idle Argument was described by Origen and Cicero and it went like this:
For instance, Friedrich Nietzsche discusses what he calls "Turkish fatalism"[5] in his book The Wanderer and His Shadow.[6]
Some scholars argue that the concept of non-self necessarily disproves the ideas of free will and moral culpability. If there is no autonomous self, in this view, and all events are necessarily and unchangeably caused by others, then no type of autonomy can be said to exist, moral or otherwise. However, other scholars disagree, claiming that the Buddhist conception of the universe allows for a form of compatibilism. Buddhism perceives reality occurring on two different levels, the ultimate reality which can only be truly understood by the enlightened, and the illusory and false material reality. Therefore, Buddhism perceives free will as a notion belonging to material reality, while concepts like non-self and dependent origination belong to the ultimate reality; the transition between the two can be truly understood, Buddhists claim, by one who has attained enlightenment.[15]
Any view according to which human beings are powerless to do anything other than what they actually do.[1] Included in this is the belief that humans have no power to influence the future or indeed the outcome of their own actions.[2][3][clarification needed]
^ Friedrich Nietzsche, The Wanderer and His Shadow, 1880, Türkenfatalismus
al-Abbasi, Abeer Abdullah (August 2020). "The Arabsʾ Visions of the Upper Realm". Marburg Journal of Religion. University of Marburg. 22 (2): 1–28. doi:10.17192/mjr.2020.22.8301. ISSN 1612-2941. Retrieved 23 May 2022.
Leaman, Oliver, ed. (1999). "Fatalism". Key Concepts in Eastern Philosophy. Routledge Key Guides (1st ed.). London and New York: Routledge. pp. 80–81. ISBN 9780415173636. Fatalism. Some of the teachings of Indian philosophy are fatalistic. For example, the Ajivika school argued that fate (nyati) governs both the cycle of birth and rebirth, and also individual lives. Suffering is not attributed to past actions, but just takes place without any cause or rationale, as does relief from suffering. There is nothing we can do to achieve moksha, we just have to hope that all will go well with us. [...] But the Ajivikas were committed to asceticism, and they justified this in terms of its practice being just as determined by fate as anything else.
Basham, Arthur L. (1981) [1951]. "Chapter XII: Niyati". History and Doctrines of the Ājīvikas, a Vanished Indian Religion. Lala L. S. Jain Series (1st ed.). Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass. pp. 224–238. ISBN 9788120812048. OCLC 633493794. The fundamental principle of Ājīvika philosophy was Fate, usually called Niyati. Buddhist and Jaina sources agree that Gosāla was a rigid determinist, who exalted Niyati to the status of the motive factor of the universe and the sole agent of all phenomenal change. This is quite clear in our locus classicus, the Samaññaphala Sutta. Sin and suffering, attributed by other sects to the laws of karma, the result of evil committed in the previous lives or in the present one, were declared by Gosāla to be without cause or basis, other, presumably, than the force of destiny. Similarly, the escape from evil, the working off of accumulated evil karma, was likewise without cause or basis.
^ Repetti, Ricardo (2012). "Buddhist Hard Determinism: No Self, No Free Will, No Responsibility" (PDF). Journal of Buddhist Ethics. 19: 136–137, 143–145.
Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 9,737 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization.
Repetti, Ricardo (2012). "Buddhist Hard Determinism: No Self, No Free Will, No Responsibility" (PDF). Journal of Buddhist Ethics. 19: 136–137, 143–145.
While the terms are sometimes used interchangeably, fatalism, determinism, and predeterminism are distinct, as each emphasizes a different aspect of the futility of human will or the foreordination of destiny. However, all these doctrines share common ground.
The view that the appropriate reaction to the inevitability of some future event is acceptance or resignation, rather than resistance.[b] This view is closer to everyday use of the word "fatalism", and is similar to defeatism.
^ Mackie, Penelope. “Fatalism, Incompatibilism, and the Power To Do Otherwise” Noûs, vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 672-689, December 2003
The views on the interaction of karma and free will are numerous, and diverge from each other greatly. For example, in Sikhism, god's grace, gained through worship, can erase one's karmic debts, a belief which reconciles the principle of karma with a monotheistic god one must freely choose to worship.[9] Jainists believe in a sort of compatibilism, in which the cycle of Saṃsara is a completely mechanistic process, occurring without any divine intervention. The Jains hold an atomic view of reality, in which particles of karma form the fundamental microscopic building material of the universe.
"Buddhist Hard Determinism: No Self, No Free Will, No Responsibility"
The argument relies heavily on the principle of bivalence: the idea that any proposition is either true or false.As a result of this principle, if it is not false that there will be a sea battle, then it is true; there is no in-between.However, rejecting the principle of bivalence—perhaps by saying that the truth of a proposition regarding the future is indeterminate—is a controversial view since the principle is an accepted part of classical logic.
The Idle Argument was anticipated by Aristotle in his De Interpretatione chapter 9. The Stoics considered it to be a sophism and the Stoic Chrysippus attempted to refute it by pointing out that consulting the doctor would be as much fated as recovering. He seems to have introduced the idea that in cases like that at issue two events can be co-fated, so that one cannot occur without the other.[22]
House, H. Wayne. 1991. "Resurrection, Reincarnation, and Humanness." Bibliotheca Sacra 148(590). Retrieved 29 November 2013.
A second such view is logical fatalism, according to which propositions about the future which we take to currently be either true or false can only be true or false if future events are already determined.[1]
Zagzebski, Linda. "Foreknowledge and Free Will". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 7 June 2020.
One concept which is argued to support a hard determinism is the idea of dependent origination, which claims that all phenomena (dharma) are necessarily caused by some other phenomenon, which it can be said to be dependent on, like links in a massive chain. In traditional Buddhist philosophy, this concept is used to explain the functioning of the cycle of saṃsāra; all actions exert a karmic force, which will manifest results in future lives. In other words, righteous or unrighteous actions in one life will necessarily cause good or bad responses in another.[13]
Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article.
^ a b c Leaman, Oliver, ed. (1999). "Fatalism". Key Concepts in Eastern Philosophy. Routledge Key Guides (1st ed.). London and New York: Routledge. pp. 80–81. ISBN 9780415173636. Fatalism. Some of the teachings of Indian philosophy are fatalistic. For example, the Ajivika school argued that fate (nyati) governs both the cycle of birth and rebirth, and also individual lives. Suffering is not attributed to past actions, but just takes place without any cause or rationale, as does relief from suffering. There is nothing we can do to achieve moksha, we just have to hope that all will go well with us. [...] But the Ajivikas were committed to asceticism, and they justified this in terms of its practice being just as determined by fate as anything else.
In ancient India, the Ājīvika school of philosophy founded by Makkhali Gosāla (around 500 BCE), otherwise referred to as "Ājīvikism" in Western scholarship,[10] upheld the Niyati ("Fate") doctrine of absolute fatalism or determinism,[10][11][12] which negates the existence of free will and karma, and is therefore considered one of the nāstika or "heterodox" schools of Indian philosophy.[10][11][12] The oldest descriptions of the Ājīvika fatalists and their founder Gosāla can be found both in the Buddhist and Jaina scriptures of ancient India.[10][12] The predetermined fate of living beings and the impossibility to achieve liberation (moksha) from the eternal cycle of birth, death, and rebirth was the major distinctive philosophical and metaphysical doctrine of this heterodox school of Indian philosophy,[10][11][12] annoverated among the other Śramaṇa movements that emerged in India during the Second urbanization (600–200 BCE).[10]
^ House, H. Wayne. 1991. "Resurrection, Reincarnation, and Humanness." Bibliotheca Sacra 148(590). Retrieved 29 November 2013.
Fatalism is a family of related philosophical doctrines that stress the subjugation of all events or actions to fate or destiny, and is commonly associated with the consequent attitude of resignation in the face of future events which are thought to be inevitable.[1][2]
^ Zagzebski, Linda. "Foreknowledge and Free Will". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 7 June 2020.
^ a b c d .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Rice, Hugh (Winter 2018). "Fatalism".In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Stanford University: Center for the Study of Language and Information. Retrieved 5 April 2020.
This page was last edited on 20 December 2022, at 10:40 (UTC).
Al-Farabi. (1981). Commentary on Aristotle's De Interpretatione. Translated by F.W.Zimmerman,. Oxford: Oxford university press.
Zagzebski, Linda, "Foreknowledge and Free Will", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2017 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = .
Ryerson, James (12 December 2008). "Consider the Philosopher". The New York Times.
^ Goldstein, Joseph. "Dependent Origination: The Twelve Links Explained". Tricycle: The Buddhist Review. Retrieved 26 January 2020.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Rice, Hugh (Winter 2018). "Fatalism".In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Stanford University: Center for the Study of Language and Information. Retrieved 5 April 2020.
^ Susanne Bobzien, Determinism and Freedom in Stoic Philosophy, Oxford 1998, chapter 5
Hoefer, Carl, "Causal Determinism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2016 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.)
You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing German Wikipedia article at [[:de:Fatalismus]]; see its history for attribution.
A third such view is causal determinism. Causal determinism (often simply called "determinism") is now usually treated as distinct from fatalism, on the grounds that it requires only the determination of each successive state in a system by that system's prior state, rather than the final state of a system being predetermined.
^ a b Solomon, Robert C. (October 2003). "On Fate and Fatalism". Philosophy East and West. University of Hawaii Press. 53 (4): 435–454. doi:10.1353/pew.2003.0047. JSTOR 1399977. S2CID 170753493.
Likewise, if you are fated not to recover, you will not do so whether you call a doctor or not.
In the I Ching and philosophical Taoism, the ebb and flow of favorable and unfavorable conditions suggests the path of least resistance is effortless (see: Wu wei). In the philosophical schools of the Indian Subcontinent, the concept of karma deals with similar philosophical issues to the Western concept of determinism. Karma is understood as a spiritual mechanism which causes the eternal cycle of birth, death, and rebirth (saṃsāra).[8] Karma, either positive or negative, accumulates according to an individual's actions throughout their life, and at their death determines the nature of their next life in the cycle of Saṃsāra.[8] Most major religions originating in India hold this belief to some degree, most notably Hinduism,[8] Jainism, Sikhism, and Buddhism.
Taylor, Richard (January 1962). "Fatalism". The Philosophical Review. Duke University Press. 71 (1): 56–66. doi:10.2307/2183681. JSTOR 2183681.
^ a b c Bodewitz, Henk (2019). "Chapter 1 – The Hindu Doctrine of Transmigration: Its Origin and Background".In Heilijgers, Dory H.; Houben, Jan E. M.; van Kooij, Karel (eds.). Vedic Cosmology and Ethics: Selected Studies. Gonda Indological Studies. Vol. 19. Leiden and Boston: Brill Publishers. pp. 3–19. doi:10.1163/9789004400139_002. ISBN 978-90-04-40013-9. ISSN 1382-3442.
^ a b al-Abbasi, Abeer Abdullah (August 2020). "The Arabsʾ Visions of the Upper Realm". Marburg Journal of Religion. University of Marburg. 22 (2): 1–28. doi:10.17192/mjr.2020.22.8301. ISSN 1612-2941. Retrieved 23 May 2022.
^ For instance, Friedrich Nietzsche discusses what he calls "Turkish fatalism"[5] in his book The Wanderer and His Shadow.[6]
One criticism comes from the novelist David Foster Wallace, who in a 1985 paper "Richard Taylor's Fatalism and the Semantics of Physical Modality" suggests that Taylor reached his conclusion of fatalism only because his argument involved two different and inconsistent notions of impossibility.[25] Wallace did not reject fatalism per se, as he wrote in his closing passage, "if Taylor and the fatalists want to force upon us a metaphysical conclusion, they must do metaphysics, not semantics. And this seems entirely appropriate."[25] Willem deVries and Jay Garfield, both of whom were advisers on Wallace's thesis, expressed regret that Wallace never published his argument.[25] In 2010, the thesis was, however, published posthumously as Time, Fate, and Language: An Essay on Free Will.
Barnes, E. J. (1984). The complete works of Aristotle, de interpretatione IX. princeton: Princeton University press.
The belief that events are decided by fate and are outside human control.
The key idea of logical fatalism is that there is a body of true propositions (statements) about what is going to happen, and these are true regardless of when they are made. So, for example, if it is true today that tomorrow there will be a sea battle, then there cannot fail to be a sea battle tomorrow, since otherwise it would not be true today that such a battle will take place tomorrow.
COVID-19 PortalWhile this global health crisis continues to evolve, it can be useful to look to past pandemics to better understand how to respond today.
100 WomenBritannica celebrates the centennial of the Nineteenth Amendment, highlighting suffragists and history-making politicians.
#WTFact VideosIn #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find.
Student PortalBritannica is the ultimate student resource for key school subjects like history, government, literature, and more.
Britannica ClassicsCheck out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives.
Britannica ExplainsIn these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions.
SpaceNext50Britannica presents SpaceNext50,From the race to the Moon to space stewardship, we explore a wide range of subjects that feed our curiosity about space!
We're sorry! This content is not available. Please visit the Britannica homepage or use the search box below.
Saving EarthBritannica Presents Earth’s To-Do List for the 21st Century. Learn about the major environmental problems facing our planet and what can be done about them!
Britannica BeyondWe’ve created a new place where questions are at the center of learning. Go ahead. Ask. We won’t mind.
Demystified VideosIn Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions.
This Time in HistoryIn these videos, find out what happened this month (or any month!) in history.
– Karla Jessen Williamson– Katalepsis– Keith Lehrer– KK thesis– Knowing and the Known– Knowledge– Knowledge and Its Limits– Knowledge by acquaintance– Knowledge by description– Knowledge organization– Knowledge relativity
– Sally Haslanger– Satya– Scepticism and Animal Faith– Scottish Common Sense Realism– Self-evidence– Semantic externalism– Semantic theory of truth– Sensualism– Sextus Empiricus– Sherrilyn Roush– Simulated reality– Simulation hypothesis– Skepticism– Sleeping Beauty problem– Social constructionism– Social epistemology– Social Epistemology (journal)– Sociology of knowledge– Socrates– Solipsism– Sophist (dialogue)– Speculative reason– Steve Fuller (sociologist)– Subjectivism– Swamping problem– Swampman– Systemography
– Walter Terence Stace– Ward Jones– Wilfrid Sellars– William Alston– William Crathorn– Word and Object– World Hypotheses– World view
– Barry Stroud– Basic belief– Basic limiting principle– Belief– Bertrand Russell– Bertrand Russell's views on philosophy– Björn Kraus– Black swan theory– Blind men and an elephant– Body of knowledge– Brain in a vat– Brute fact
– Naïve empiricism– Naïve realism– Nassim Nicholas Taleb– Naturalism (philosophy)– Naturalized epistemology– Nayef Al-Rodhan– Neopragmatism– Neutrality (philosophy)– New realism (philosophy)– Nicholas Rescher– Niklas Luhmann– Nomothetic– Nomothetic and idiographic– Noogony– Norman Malcolm– Noumenon
– Tabula rasa– Tarski's undefinability theorem– Techne– Telesis– Testimony– The Black Swan (Taleb book)– The Course in Positive Philosophy– The Extended Mind– The Postmodern Condition– The Republic (Plato)– The Roots of Reference– The Will to Believe– The World as Will and Representation– Theaetetus (dialogue)– Theory of Forms– Theory of justification– There are known knowns– Thick Black Theory– Thought experiment– Transcendent truth– Transcendental idealism– Transcendental philosophy– Transcendental realism– Transparency (philosophy)– Trenton Merricks– Truth– Truth by consensus– Truth predicate– Truth-value link– Twin Earth thought experiment– Two Dogmas of Empiricism– Two truths doctrine
– Jean Piaget– Jean-Louis Le Moigne– Jean-Michel Berthelot– John Greco (philosopher)– John Hick– John Locke– John Searle– Jonathan Dancy– Jonathan Kvanvig- Jules Vuillemin– Justified true belief
– Ramification problem– Rational egoism– Rational fideism– Rational ignorance– Rationalism– Rationality– Reason– Redundancy theory of truth– Reformed epistemology– Regress argument– Relevant alternatives theory– Reliabilism– Religious epistemology– Robert Audi– Robert Nozick– Roderick Chisholm– Role of chance in scientific discoveries
– Vagueness– Vasily Seseman– Verification theory– Verificationism– Verisimilitude– Veritism– Vienna Circle– Virtue epistemology– Visual space– Voluntarism (metaphysics)
– Maieutics– Map–territory relation– Margaret Elizabeth Egan– Mathematical proof– Meditations on First Philosophy– Memory– Meno– Meno's slave– Meta– Meta-epistemology– Metaphor in philosophy– Metaphysical naturalism– Metatheory– Methodism (philosophy)– Methodological solipsism– Michel de Montaigne– Molyneux's problem– Moore's paradox– Moral rationalism– Multiperspectivalism– Mundane reason
– I know it when I see it– I know that I know nothing– Ideological criticism– Ideology– Ignoramus et ignorabimus– Ignorance– Illuminationism– Immanuel Kant– Incorrigibility– Indeterminacy (philosophy)– Inductive reasoning– Inductivism– Infallibilism– Infallibility– Inference– Infinitism– Information source– Innatism– Insight– Intellectual responsibility– Internalism and externalism– Intersubjective verifiability– Intersubjectivity– Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology– Introspection– Intuition (Bergson)– Intuition (philosophy)– Intuition (psychology)– Intuitionism– Irrealism (philosophy)– Is Logic Empirical?– Islamization of knowledge
– Harry Binswanger– Heinz von Foerster– Helmut Wautischer– Here is one hand– Hierarchical epistemology– Hilary Kornblith– Humanism– Hume's fork
– Object (philosophy)– Objectivity (philosophy)– Observation– Ontologism– Omphalos hypothesis– Opinion– Outline of epistemology– Overbelief
– Laplace's demon– Larry Laudan– Larry Sanger– Latitudinarianism (philosophy)– Laurence BonJour– Law (principle)– Leap of faith– Leonard Peikoff– Levels of adequacy– List of epistemologists– Logical holism– Logical positivism– Lottery paradox
– Daniel M. Hausman– David Hume– Deductive closure– Defeasible reasoning– Defeater– Deflationary theory of truth– Descriptive knowledge– Dharmarāja Adhvarin– Dialetheism– Dianoia– Direct and indirect realism– Direct experience– Discourse on the Method– Disjunctivism– Dispositional and occurrent belief– Divine command theory– Daimonic– Dogma– Doubt– Doxa– Doxastic attitudes– Dream argument– Duck test
– Uncertainty– Underdetermination– Understanding– Universal pragmatics– Unknown known– Unobservable– Upamāṇa
This page was last edited on 2 February 2023, at 21:39 (UTC).
– C. D. Broad– Carper's fundamental ways of knowing– Cartesian doubt– Cartesian other– Cartesian Self– Catherine Elgin– Causal chain– Causal Theory of Knowing– Causality– Center Leo Apostel for Interdisciplinary Studies– Centre de Recherche en Epistémologie Appliquée– Certainty– Claudio Canaparo– Cogito ergo sum– Cognitive closure (philosophy)– Cognitive synonymy– Coherence theory of truth– Coherentism– Common sense– Compensationism– Composition of Causes– Computational epistemology– Concluding Unscientific Postscript to Philosophical Fragments– Condition of possibility– Consensus theory of truth– Constructivism (mathematics)– Constructivist epistemology– Contextualism– Contrastivism– Correspondence theory of truth– Counterintuitive– Crispin Wright– Criteria of truth– Critical rationalism– Critical realism– Critical thinking– Cynicism
Epistemology (from Greek ἐπιστήμη – episteme-, "knowledge, science" and λόγος, "logos") or theory of knowledge is the branch of philosophy concerned with the nature and scope (limitations) of knowledge.[1] It addresses the questions "What is knowledge?", "How is knowledge acquired?", "What do people know?", "How do we know what we know?", and "Why do we know what we know?". Much of the debate in this field has focused on analyzing the nature of knowledge and how it relates to similar notions such as truth, belief, and justification. It also deals with the means of production of knowledge, as well as skepticism about different knowledge claims.
– Fact– Factual relativism– Fact–value distinction– Faith and rationality– Fallibilism– Falsifiability– Feminist epistemology– Fideism– Finitism– Fitch's paradox of knowability– Fooled by Randomness– Formal epistemology– Formative epistemology– Foundationalism– Foundherentism– Fragmentalism– Frame problem– Frank Cameron Jackson– Fred Dretske– Frederick Wilhelmsen– Functional contextualism
– G. E. Moore– Gaston Bachelard– Generativity– Genetic epistemology– George Berkeley– George Pappas– Gettier problem– Giambattista Vico– Gila Sher– Gilbert Harman– Gilbert Ryle– Giulio Giorello– Gnosiology– Gödel's incompleteness theorems
– "A Defence of Common Sense"– A posteriori– A priori and a posteriori– A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge– Abductive reasoning– Academic skepticism– Acatalepsy– Ad hoc hypothesis– Adaptive representation– Adolph Stöhr– Aenesidemus– Aenesidemus (book)– African Spir– Against Method– Agnosticism– Agrippa the Skeptic– Alethiology– Alief (belief)– Alison Wylie– Alvin Goldman– An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding– An Essay Concerning Human Understanding– Analytic–synthetic distinction– Anamnesis (philosophy)– Androcentrism– Android epistemology– Anthony Wilden– Anti-foundationalism– Anti-realism– Apperception– Arda Denkel– Argument from illusion– Aristotle's theory of universals– Arnór Hannibalsson– Ásta Kristjana Sveinsdóttir– Atli Harðarson– Atomism– Autoepistemic logic– Ayn Rand
– P. F. Strawson– Pancritical rationalism– Panrationalism– Paradigm– Paradigm shift– Participatory theory– Paul Churchland– Perception– Perceptual learning– Peripatetic axiom– Perspectivism– Pessimism– Peter Millican– Peter Unger– Phenomenal conservatism– Phenomenalism– Phillip H. Wiebe– Philosophic burden of proof– Philosophical Fragments– Philosophical Investigations– Philosophical problems of testimony– Philosophical skepticism– Philosophical theology– Philosophical zombie– Philosophy of color– Philosophy of perception– Philosophy of science– Plato's Problem– Platonic epistemology– Pluralism (philosophy)– Pluralist theories of truth– Positivism– Postfoundationalism– Postmodern philosophy– Postpositivism– Pragmatic theory of truth– Pramāṇa– Praxeology– Predictive power– Preface paradox– Preformation theory– Presentationism– Presupposition (philosophy)– Primary/secondary quality distinction– Principle of charity– Private language argument– Privileged access– Probabilism– Probability interpretations– Problem of induction– Problem of other minds– Problem of the criterion– Problem of universals– Procedural knowledge– Proof (truth)– Propensity probability– Propositional attitude– Pseudointellectual– Psychological nominalism– Pyrrho– Pyrrhonism
– Eastern epistemology– Ecology of contexts– Edgar Morin– Editology– Edmund Gettier– Educology– Egocentric predicament– Elephant test– Emergence– Empirical evidence– Empirical method– Empirical relationship– Empirical research– Empiricism– Endoxa– Enneads– Epilogism– Episteme– Epistemic closure– Epistemic commitment– Epistemic community– Epistemic conservatism– Epistemic feedback– Epistemic minimalism– Epistemic possibility– Epistemic theories of truth– Epistemic theory of miracles– Epistemic virtue– Epistemicism– Epistemocracy– Epistemological anarchism– Epistemological idealism– Epistemological particularism– Epistemological pluralism– Epistemological psychology– Epistemological realism– Epistemological rupture– Epistemological solipsism– Epistemology– Epoché– Eristic– Ernst von Glasersfeld– Eureka effect– Everett W. Hall– Evidence– Evidentialism– Evil demon– Evolutionary argument against naturalism– Evolutionary epistemology– Exclusion principle (philosophy)– Existential phenomenology– Exoteric– Expectation (epistemic)– Experience– Experiential knowledge– Experientialism– Extended mind thesis– Externism– Eyewitness testimony
Impregnation fantasies are characterized by the arousal or gratification from the possibility, consequences, or risk of impregnation through unprotected vaginal sex. Impregnation fantasies are often indulged by reading erotic literature and role playing with a partner.
The naked appearance of actress Demi Moore in the advanced stage of pregnancy on the cover of Vanity Fair magazine in 1991 marked the beginning of a period which has since seen pregnancy presented by celebrities as a glamorous state of living, while also creating a market for photographers to produce images of pregnant mothers, and for fashion stylists to introduce "pregnancy styling" to their business.[3]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Longhurst, Robyn (2006). "A Pornography of Birth: Crossing Moral Boundaries" (PDF). ACME: An International e-Journal for Critical Geographies. 5 (2): 221. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 July 2007. Retrieved 6 December 2007.
^ Associated Press (26 April 2006). "Celebrities make pregnancy seem glamorous". MSNBC.com. Retrieved 18 April 2008.
There are no particular or preferred elements within maiesiophilia that are common to all maiesiophiliacs. Some may pursue fantasies that are concerned with the circumstances in which a subject may give birth, or to the conditions to which the pregnant subject may find themselves acting upon, such as approaches to mobility, sleeping, and dressing. Particularly an enlarged abdomen is the reason for the attractiveness as well as more psychological aspects such as signs of fertility.
^ Whitaker, Lenyon. "Pornhub data reveals 'pregnancy porn' searches are on the rise". Metro (May 15, 2017). Archived from the original on 2022-10-20. Retrieved 2018-12-23.
Katharine Gates (1999). Deviant Desires: Incredibly Strange Sex. Juno Books. ISBN 1-890451-03-7. (p. 96)
^ Inge Hegeler, Sten Hegeler (1963). An ABZ of Love. University of California. p 94.
This page was last edited on 14 March 2023, at 02:35 (UTC).
Inge Hegeler, Sten Hegeler (1963). An ABZ of Love. University of California. p 94.
Associated Press (26 April 2006). "Celebrities make pregnancy seem glamorous". MSNBC.com. Retrieved 18 April 2008.
Pregnancy Sex Positions: ideas for comfortable sex positions during pregnancy.
Pregnancy has proven to be a very popular topic in the world of internet pornography, where searches for 'pregnancy porn' spiked on Pornhub in 2017, with searches increasing 20% since 2014.[4]
Pregnancy fetishism (also known as maiesiophilia or maieusophoria) is a context where pregnancy is seen by individuals or cultures as an erotic phenomenon.[1] It may involve sexual attraction to women who are pregnant or appear pregnant, attraction to lactation, or attraction to particular stages of pregnancy such as impregnation or childbirth.[2]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Longhurst, Robyn (2006). "A Pornography of Birth: Crossing Moral Boundaries" (PDF). ACME: An International e-Journal for Critical Geographies. 5 (2): 221. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 July 2007. Retrieved 6 December 2007.
Whitaker, Lenyon. "Pornhub data reveals 'pregnancy porn' searches are on the rise". Metro (May 15, 2017). Archived from the original on 2022-10-20. Retrieved 2018-12-23.
"Pornhub data reveals 'pregnancy porn' searches are on the rise"
If a page was recently created here, it may not be visible yet because of a delay in updating the database; wait a few minutes or try the purge function.
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title
Look for pages within Wikipedia that link to this title.
If the page has been deleted, check the deletion log, and see Why was the page I created deleted?.
Titles on Wikipedia are case sensitive except for the first character; please check alternative capitalizations and consider adding a redirect here to the correct title.
You need to log in or create an account to create this page.
Rational mysticism --Reality --Reductionism --Reflexive monism --Relational space --Relativism --Religious Science --René Descartes --Rhonda Byrne --Robert Merrihew Adams --Robert Stalnaker --
Wallace Wattles --Will (philosophy) --Will to live --Willard Van Orman Quine --William Alston --William Desmond (philosopher) --William Lycan --Wolfgang Smith --World Hypotheses --World
Mahmoud Khatami --Marcus Fronius --Martin HeideggerMary Ellen Tracy --Material monism --Material substratum --Materialism --Matter (philosophy) --Meaning (existential) --Meaning of life --Mechanism (philosophy) --Meditations on First Philosophy --Meliorism --Melissus of Samos --Mental representation --Meta-ontology --Metametaphysics --Metaphysical naturalism --Metaphysical nihilism --Metaphysical Society --Metaphysical Society of America --Metaphysics --Michael Devitt --Mind --Mind-body dualism --Monism --Morris Lichtenstein --Motion (physics)
Damon Young --David Kellogg Lewis --David Kolb --David Wiggins --Dean Zimmerman (philosopher) --Dermot Moran --Determinism --Dickinson S. Miller --Disquisitions relating to Matter and Spirit --Doctrine of internal relations --Donald Davidson (philosopher) --Dorothy Emmet --Downward causation --Dualistic cosmology --Duns Scotus --Duration (Bergson) --Dynamism (metaphysics) --Dysteleology --
C. D. Broad --Carlo Michelstaedter --Categories of the understanding --Category of being --Causality --Charles François d'Abra de Raconis --Choice --Church of Divine Science --Clinamen --Cogito ergo sumCompatibilism and incompatibilism --Conatus --Concept --Conceptualism --Concluding Unscientific Postscript to Philosophical Fragments --Container space --Counterpart theory --Creative visualization --
Geisler, Norman L. "Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics" page 446. Baker Books, 1999
Teaism --Teleology --Temporal finitism --Temporal parts --Terence Parsons --The Doctrine of Philosophical Necessity Illustrated --The Philosophical Library --The Realms of Being --Theoretical physics --Theory of everything (philosophy) --Theory of Forms --Theosophy --Thomas Aquinas --Thought --Time --Transcendental idealism --Transcendental perspectivism --Trenton Merricks --Truth --Truth-value link --Tychism --Type (metaphysics) --
Ian Rumfitt --Idea --Idealism --Identity and change --Identity (philosophy) --Identityism --Immanence --Immanuel Kant --Impenetrability --Indefinite monism --Indeterminism --Information --Inherence --Intention --Introduction to Metaphysics (Bergson) --Intuition (Bergson) --Involution (philosophy) --Irrealism (philosophy) --
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel --George Berkeley --G. E. Moore --Gerardus Everardus Tros --Gilbert Simondon --Gottfried Leibniz --Graham Priest --Growing block universe --Gunk (mereology) --
P. F. Strawson --Parmenides --Participation (philosophy) --Particular --Pattern --Paul Benacerraf --Paul Weiss (philosopher) --Perception --Perdurantism --Personal identity --Peter Glassen --Peter Unger --Peter van Inwagen --Peter Wessel Zapffe --Phenomenalism --Philosophical realism --Philosophical theology --Philosophy --Philosophy of mind --Philosophy of Organism --Philosophy of space and time --Philosophy of Spinoza --Physical body --Physicalism --Physis --Pirsig's metaphysics of Quality --Plato --(Plato) The cave --(Plato) The divided line --(Plato) The Sun --Platonic idealism --Platonic realism --Plotinus --Pluralism (philosophy) --Practical Metaphysics --Predeterminism --Primary/secondary quality distinction --Principle --Principle of individuation --Projectivism --Property (philosophy) --Psychonautics --
Face-to-face --Ferdinando Cazzamalli --Form --Formal distinction --Fragmentalism --Frankfurt counterexamples --Free will --Free will in antiquity --Frithjof Schuon --
Hilary Putnam --Hindu idealism --Human spirit --Humanistic naturalism --Huna (New Thought) --Hylomorphism --Hylozoism --
Saul Kripke --Scientific realism --Self (philosophy) --Shadworth Hodgson --Simple (philosophy) --Simulacra and Simulation --Simulated reality --Simulation hypothesis --Simulism --Solipsism --Soul --Space --Species (metaphysics) --Speculative realism --Stoic categories --Stuart Wilde --Subject --Subject (philosophy) --Subjectivism --Substance --Substance theory --Sufi metaphysics --Supervenience --
This page was last edited on 11 July 2022, at 15:20 (UTC).
Object --Objective idealism --Objectivism --Ontological pluralism --Ontology --Open individualismOrganicism --Other --
Law of attraction (New Thought) --Letters to a Philosophical Unbeliever --Libertarianism (metaphysics) --List of metaphysicians --Logical atomism --Logical holism --Ludwig Wittgenstein
Jay Rosenberg --Jean-Paul Sartre --Jewish Science --John Hawthorne --John Locke --Joseph Murphy (author) --Judith Jarvis Thomson --
Absolute idealism --Absolute time and space --Abstract object --Absurdism --Accident (philosophy) --Accidentalism (philosophy) --Action theory (philosophy)Actualism --Adolph Stöhr --Alfred North WhiteheadAlvin Plantinga --Ananda Coomaraswamy --Anti-realism --Apologism --Arda Denkel --Aristotelianism --Aristotle --Arthur Schopenhauer --Axiology
Unity Church --Universal (metaphysics) --Universal mind --Universal reason --Universality (philosophy) --Unobservable --
^ Geisler, Norman L. "Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics" page 446. Baker Books, 1999
Metaphysics is the branch of philosophy that investigates principles of reality transcending those of any particular science. Cosmology and ontology are traditional branches of metaphysics. It is concerned with explaining the fundamental nature of being and the world.[1] Someone who studies metaphysics can be called either a "metaphysician" or a "metaphysicist".[2]
Edward N. Zalta --Elbow Room (Dennett book) --Eleatics --Embodied cognition --Emergence --Endurantism --Entity --Essence --Essentialism --Eternalism (philosophy of time) --Eternity of the world --Event (philosophy) --Evil demon --Exemplification theory --Existence --Existentialism --Experience --Extension (metaphysics) --
Baruch Spinoza --Being --Bertrand Russell --Bertrand Russell's views on philosophy --Body hopping --Borussian myth --Brian Leftow --Bundle theory --
Nathan Salmon --Natural law --Naturalism (philosophy) --Necessary and sufficient condition --New Age --New Thought --NihilismNominalism --Non-essentialism --Noneism --Notion (philosophy) --Noumenon --
José Manuel Jara Preface of V. M. Bekhterev "Suggestion and its Role in Social Life" Italian edition, Psichiatria e Territorio, 2013
Bekhterev’s Nystagmus: Nystagmus that develops after the destruction of the canals of the inner ear
Preface by José Manuel Jara of :V. M. Bekhterev "Suggestion and its Role in Social Life" Italian edition Psichiatria e Territorio, 2013
Bekhterev’s Disease: An autoimmune disease characterized by arthritis, inflammation, and eventual immobility of joints
During his time at the University of Kazan, Bekhterev made some of his greatest contributions to neurological science.He established the first laboratory of experimental psychology in Russia in 1886 to study the nervous system and the structures of the brain.As a result of his research, Bekhterev believed that there were zones within the brain and each of these zones had a specific function.Moreover, because nervous disorders and mental disorders usually occur in conjunction with each other, he believed that there was no definite distinction between these disorders.[3]When conducting research at the University of Kazan, Bekhterev also identified Ankylosing Spondylitis orBekhterev’s disease (more frequently spelled in English as Bechterew’s disease, following the German transliteration system for Russian names), a degenerative arthritis of the spine.As a result of his groundbreaking research, in 1891, Bekhterev was granted permission by the Kazan government to open and become the chairman of the Neurology Science Society.[3]
^ Kesselring, J. (August 2011). "Vladimir Mikhailovic Bekhterev (1857–1927): Strange Circumstances Surrounding the Death of the Great Russian Neurologist". European Neurology. 66 (1): 14–17. doi:10.1159/000328779. PMID 21701175.
In 1893, Bekhterev left the University of Kazan to return to St. Petersburg Military Medical Academy to become the head to the Department of Nervous and Mental Diseases where he worked with Alexandre Dogiel.Here he continued his contribution to neurological research by organizing the first Russian neurosurgical operating room to specialize in neurosurgery.While Bekhterev never performed any surgeries himself, he was highly involved in the diagnostics of neurological diseases, eventually earning him the Full State Chancellor Title in 1894.[3]
Shereshevsky A. M. (1992). "THE PAST AND PRESENT THROUGH THE EYES OF PSYCHIATRISTS AND PSYCHOLOGISTS: The Mystery of the Death of V. M. Bekhterev". The Bekhterev Review of Psychiatry and Medical Psychology. Washington, D.C.: American Psychiatric Press, Inc.: 83–87. ISBN 9780880486675. ISSN 1064-6930.
Bekhterev was familiar with Pavlov’s work and had multiple criticisms.According to Bekhterev, one of Pavlov’s major research flaws included using a saliva method.He found fault with this method because it could not be easily used on humans.In contrast, Bekhterev's method of studying this association (conditioned) reflex using mild electrical stimulation to examine motor reflexes was able to demonstrate the existence of this reflex in humans.Bekhterev also questioned using acid to encourage saliva from the animals.He felt that this practice may contaminate the results of the experiment.Finally, Bekhterev criticized Pavlov’s method by stating that the secretory reflex is unimportant and unreliable.If the animal is not hungry then food may not elicit the desired response, acting as evidence of the method’s unreliability.[10]Pavlov however was not without his own criticisms of Bekhterev, stating that Bekhterev’s laboratory was poorly controlled.[4]
Only two know the mystery of brain: God and Bekhterev.
Shereshevsky, A. M. (1992). "The Mystery of the Death of V. M. Bekhterev". The Bekhterev Review of Psychiatry and Medical Psychology. Washington, D.C.: American Psychiatric Press, Inc.: 84.
Kesselring, J. (August 2011). "Vladimir Mikhailovic Bekhterev (1857–1927): Strange Circumstances Surrounding the Death of the Great Russian Neurologist". European Neurology. 66 (1): 14–17. doi:10.1159/000328779. PMID 21701175.
Both Ivan Pavlov and Bekhterev independently developed a theory of conditioned reflexes which describe automatic responses to the environment.What was called association reflex by Bekhterev is called the conditioned reflex by Pavlov, although the two theories are essentially the same.Because John Watson discovered the salivation research completed by Pavlov, this research was incorporated into Watson’s famous theory of Behaviorism, making Pavlov a household name.While Watson used Pavlov’s research to support his Behaviorist claims, closer inspection shows that in fact, Watson’s teachings are better supported by Bekhterev’s research.[9]
Bekhterev’s regular activities in the autumn and winter months of 1927, and even up to the last days of his life, showed no indications of worsening health despite the scientist’s more than 70 years of age.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l
"Vladimir Mikhailovic Bekhterev (1857–1927): Strange Circumstances Surrounding the Death of the Great Russian Neurologist"
This page was last edited on 16 March 2023, at 12:47 (UTC).
Bekhterev’s Pectoralis Reflex: A reflex that extends the Pectoralis major muscle
^ a b Hergenhahn, B.R. (2009).An Introduction to the History of Psychology, Sixth Edition. Behaviorism (pp. 394–397).Wadsworth Cengage Learning.
"Гипноз. Внушение. Телепатия (Монография)", В. М. Бехтерев, издательство "Мысль", г. Москва, 1994 г. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 5-244-00549-9 (in Russian)
Vladimir Mikhailovich Bekhterev[1] (Russian: Влади́мир Миха́йлович Бе́хтерев, IPA: [ˈbʲextʲɪrʲɪf]; 20 January 1857 – 24 December 1927) was a Russian neurologist and the father of objective psychology.He is best known for noting the role of the hippocampus in memory, his study of reflexes, and Bekhterev’s disease.Moreover, he is known for his competition with Ivan Pavlov regarding the study of conditioned reflexes.
Between 1894 and 1905 Bekhterev was very busy with his research.He completed between 14 and 24 scientific works per year and founded Nevrologicheski Vestnik (Neurology Bulletin) in 1893,[6] the first Russian journal on nervous disease.[3]Eventually, his work earned him the Baire’s Prize, awarded in December 1900, for the two volumes of his writing “Pathways of brain and bone marrow” in which he noted the role that the hippocampus plays in memory.Bekhterev's other writings include “Mind and Life,” a book written in 1902, which contained multiple volumes including “Foundations for Brain Functions Theory” written in 1903.“Foundations for Brain Functions Theory” described Bekhterev's views on the functions of the parts of the brain and the nervous system.It also suggested the Energetic Inhibition Theory which describes automatic responses (reflexes).This theory claims that there is an active energy in the brain which moves towards a center, and when this happens, the other parts of the brain are left in an inhibited state.[3]He published around 600 scientific papers. The most important works are "Suggestion and its Role in Social Life" (1899), "Consciousness and its Borders" (1888), "Psyche and Life" (1902),"Objective Psychology" (1907), "Subject Matter and Tasks of Social Psychology as an Objective Science" (1911), "Collective Reflexology" (1921) and "General Principles of Human Reflexology" (1926). An Autobiography was published at 1928, after his death.He founded other scientific journals: the “Archives of psychiatry, neurology and experimental psychology” (1896) and the “Bulletin of psychology, criminal anthropology and hypnotism” (1904).[7]“Suggestion and its role in social life”is a book of its time, the turning of the nineteenth to the twentieth century.On the question of the so-called psychic epidemic (folie à deux, folie à millions...), the author refers Calmeil, Landel, Laségue, Falret, Legrand de Saule, Regnard, Baillarger, Moreau de Tours and Morel. Gustave Le Bon and Gabriel Tarde are also mentioned on the psychology of the crowds.. He stresses the difference between suggestion and hypnosisBekhterev was interested in phenomena of direct mental suggestion and made experiments to influence behavior of dogs at distance (José Manuel Jara, 2013).[7]Bekhterev's research on associated responses would become highly connected with the important area of psychology called Behaviorism.It also led to a long-standing rivalry with Ivan Pavlov, described in further detail below.
In 1921 he was involved in organising the First Conference on Scientific Organization of Labour. He was critical of Taylorism arguing that "The ultimate ideal of the labour problem is not in it, but is in such organisation of the labour process that would yield a maximum of efficiency coupled with a minimum of health hazards, absence of fatigue and a guarantee of the sound health and all round personal development of the working people."[8]
^ a b Preface by José Manuel Jara of :V. M. Bekhterev "Suggestion and its Role in Social Life" Italian edition Psichiatria e Territorio, 2013
Kaes-Bekhterev layer (also appears as stria, line or band of Bechterew).[16]
^ a b Moroz, Oleg (1989). "The Last Diagnosis: A Plausible Account That Needs Further Verification". Soviet Review (6 ed.). pp. 82–102.
Throughout his career, Bekhterev conducted a large amount of research which greatly contributed to the current understanding of the brain.This research was described in works such as The Conduction Paths in the Brain and Spinal Cord, written in 1882, followed by a second edition written in 1896.In 1884 he published 58 scientific works about the functions of the brain.His extensive research led to an 18-month travel scholarship awarded to study and conduct researchin both Germany and Paris.[3]On this trip he worked with and learned from a variety of notable contributors the field of science such as Wilhelm Wundt (1832–1920), Paul Emil Flechsig (1847–1929), Theodor Meynert (1833–1892), Karl Friedrich Otto Westphal (1833–1890), Emil du Bois-Reymond (1818–1896), and Jean Martin Charcot (1825–1893).[4]Bekhterev's scholarship lasted until September 1885, after which, he returned to Russia and worked as the head of the Psychiatry Department at the University of Kazan until 1893.[5]
^ Neville Moray (2005), Ergonomics: The history and scope of human factors, Routledge, ISBN 9780415322577, OCLC 54974550, OL 7491513M, 041532257X
Moroz, Oleg (1989). "The Last Diagnosis: A Plausible Account That Needs Further Verification". Soviet Review (6 ed.). pp. 82–102.
^ "Сборная России по медицине" [Russia team on medicine]. Medportal.ru. 21 April 2015. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 18 February 2023.
According to Moroz (1989)[11] and Shereshevsky (1992),[12] mystery surrounds the death of Bekhterev. Bekhterev was a co-founder of the First All-Russian Congress of Neurologists and Psychiatry, held in December 1927 in Moscow, and was appointed as an Honorary President of the Congress. On 23 December 1927, after having lectured on child neurology at the Congress, Bekhterev went to the Kremlin to examine Joseph Stalin. About 3 hours later he came back to the Congress for a meeting and said to some colleagues there: "I have just examined a paranoiac with a short, dry hand."[13] The day after, Bekhterev suddenly died, causing speculation that he was poisoned by Stalin as revenge for the diagnosis.[11]
Objective psychology is based on the principle that all behavior can be explained by objectively studying reflexes. Therefore, behavior is studied through observable traits.This idea contrasted the more subjective views of psychology such as structuralism, which allowed for the use of tools such as introspection to study inner thoughts about personal experiences.
"Сборная России по медицине" [Russia team on medicine]. Medportal.ru. 21 April 2015. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 18 February 2023.
Bekhterev-Jacobsohn reflex: A finger flexion reflex which corresponds with the Bekhterev-Mendel foot reflex
Bekhterev’s Reflex I: Dilatation of the pupil upon exposure to light
Vladimir Bekhterev's contributions to science and specifically psychology were impressive.Bekhterev was a force in the science of neurology; greatly expanding knowledge on how the brain works as well as the parts of the brain.For instance, his research on the hippocampus allowed for the understanding of one of the most central portions of the brain vital to the function of memory.Moreover, his influence to psychology was immeasurable.Bekhterev’s works laid the groundwork for the future of psychology.His ideas regarding Objective psychology as well as his views on reflexes were a cornerstone of behaviorism.
"Сборная России по медицине" [Russia team on medicine]. Farm.tatarstan.ru. 21 April 2015. Archived from the original on 9 February 2022. Retrieved 18 February 2023.
^ Hergenhahn, B.R. (2009).An Introduction to the History of Psychology, Sixth Edition. Behaviorism (pp. 394–397).Wadsworth Cengage Learning.
Objective Psychology would later become the basis of Reflexology, Gestalt Psychology, and especially behaviorism, an area which would later revolutionize the field of psychology and the manner in which the science of psychology is conducted. Bekhterev’s beliefs about how to best conduct research contributed to the rise of Soviet sociolinguistics from the ashes of völkerpsychologie and the Journal of the History of the behavioral Sciences.
Reflexology: objective study of human behavior that studies the relationship between environmental stimuli and overt behavior[10]
^ a b c d e f PsychiatryOnline | American Journal of Psychiatry | Vladimir Bekhterev, 1857–1927
During his time away from teaching, Bekhterev worked to open an orphanage, complete with both a kindergarten and school, for refugee children from the western regions of Russia. He also participated in creating health services in the "young country" of Russia.[3]
^ a b Shereshevsky, A. M. (1992). "The Mystery of the Death of V. M. Bekhterev". The Bekhterev Review of Psychiatry and Medical Psychology. Washington, D.C.: American Psychiatric Press, Inc.: 84.
Bekhterev’s Reflex: Three reflexes described by Bekhterev concerning the eye, face and abdominal muscles
Russia went to war with the Ottoman Empire in 1877.Bekhterev took time off from his studies in order to help the war effort by volunteering with an ambulance detachment.After the war, he returned to school.While attending school, Bekhterev worked as a junior doctor in the clinic of mental and nervous diseases at the Institutes of Medic’s Improvement.Here he began performing his experimental work.In 1878, Bekhterev graduated from the Medical and Surgery Academy of St. Petersburg with a degree similar to a Bachelor of Medicine.[3]After graduating, Bekhterev worked at the Psychiatric Clinic in St. Petersburg. where he was inspired to begin studying the anatomy and physiology of the brain, the area in which he would later make some of his most notable contributions.[4]It was also during this time that Bekhterev married Natalya Bazilevskaya.[3]
Neville Moray (2005), Ergonomics: The history and scope of human factors, Routledge, ISBN 9780415322577, OCLC 54974550, OL 7491513M, 041532257X
^ "Сборная России по медицине" [Russia team on medicine]. Farm.tatarstan.ru. 21 April 2015. Archived from the original on 9 February 2022. Retrieved 18 February 2023.
According to a study conducted in 2015, Sechenov was included in "Russia team on medicine". This list includes fifty-three famous Russian medical scientists from the Russian Federation, the Soviet Union, and the Russian Empire who were born in 1757—1950. Physicians of all specialities listed here. Among them Vladimir Demikhov, Sergei Korsakoff, Ivan Pavlov, Nikolay Pirogov, Victor Skumin.[14][15]
PsychiatryOnline | American Journal of Psychiatry | Vladimir Bekhterev, 1857–1927
Bekhterev’s Reflex of Eye: Areflex of the contraction of the M. orbicularis oculi
^ a b c d e f Whonamedit – Vladimir Mikhailovich Bekhterev
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Russia-InfoCentre :: Vladimir Bekhterev world-famous Russian neurologist :: people
In 1880, Bekhterev began publishing his research.One of his earlier works described Russian social issues.In this paper, he wrote essays describing the individual characteristics of the Votyaks (Udmurts), a Finno-Ugric people under Russian rule who live in the Udmurt Republic between the rivers Vyatka and Kama.[citation needed] Then, on 4 April 1881, Bekhterev successfully defended his doctoral thesis, "Clinical studies of temperature in some forms of mental disorders," and received his doctorate from the Medicosurgical Academy of St. Petersburg.This doctorate allowed Bekhterev to become a "private-docent" or associate professor, where he lectured on the diagnostics of nervous diseases.[3]
"THE PAST AND PRESENT THROUGH THE EYES OF PSYCHIATRISTS AND PSYCHOLOGISTS: The Mystery of the Death of V. M. Bekhterev"
Picture, biography, and bibliography in the Virtual Laboratory of the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science
Vladimir Bekhterev was born in Sorali, a village in the Vyatka Governorate of the Russian Empire between the Volga River and the Ural Mountains.[2] V. M. Bekhterev's father – Mikhail Pavlovich – was a district police officer; his mother, Maria Mikhailovna – was a daughter of a titular councilor, was educated at a boarding school which also provided lessons of music and the French language. Beside Vladimir they had two more sons in the family: Nikolai and Aleksandr, older than he by 6 and 3 years respectively. In 1864 the family moved to Vyatka, and within a year the head of the family died of tuberculosis when Bekhterev was still very young.While his childhood was not simple, Bekhterev did have the opportunity to attend Vyatka gymnasium in 1867, one of the oldest schools in Russia, as well as the Military Medical Academy in St. Petersburg in 1873.[3]Then he studied in St. Petersburg Medicosurgical Academy where he worked under professor Jan Lucjan Mierzejewski (pl).[4]It was here where Bekhterev's interest in the disciplines of neuropathology and psychiatry were first sparked.[4]
Hergenhahn, B.R. (2009).An Introduction to the History of Psychology, Sixth Edition. Behaviorism (pp. 394–397).Wadsworth Cengage Learning.
Moreover, after Bekhterev's death, Stalin had Bekhterev's name and all of his works removed from Soviet textbooks.[2]
Joll, Nicholas. "Metaphilosophy". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 15 May 2019. Retrieved 1 February 2022.
Lichtheim, Miriam (1976). Ancient Egyptian Literature, Volume II: The New Kingdom. University of California Press. pp. 61 ff. ISBN 0-520-03615-8.
^ Haldane, John (June 2000). "In Memoriam: G. E. M. Anscombe (1919–2001)". The Review of Metaphysics. 53 (4): 1019–1021. JSTOR 20131480.
Cropper, Carol Marie (26 December 1997). "Philosophers Find the Degree Pays Off in Life And in Work". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 28 January 2017. Retrieved 2 May 2016.
^ a b Williamson, Timothy (2020). 1. Introduction. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-184724-0. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
"Willard Van Orman Quine: 3. The Analytic-Synthetic Distinction and the Argument Against Logical Empiricism"
Doniger, Wendy (2014). On Hinduism. Oxford University Press. p. 46. ISBN 978-0-19-936008-6. Archived from the original on 30 January 2017. Retrieved 25 December 2016.
PhilPapers – a comprehensive directory of online philosophical articles and books by academic philosophers
Many philosophical debates that began in ancient times are still debated today. British philosopher Colin McGinn claims that no philosophical progress has occurred during that interval.[175] Australian philosopher David Chalmers, by contrast, sees progress in philosophy similar to that in science.[176] Meanwhile, Talbot Brewer, professor of philosophy at University of Virginia, argues that "progress" is the wrong standard by which to judge philosophical activity.[177]
^ Quinton, Anthony. The Ethics of Philosophical Practice. p. 666. Philosophy is rationally critical thinking, of a more or less systematic kind about the general nature of the world (metaphysics or theory of existence), the justification of belief (epistemology or theory of knowledge), and the conduct of life (ethics or theory of value). Each of the three elements in this list has a non-philosophical counterpart, from which it is distinguished by its explicitly rational and critical way of proceeding and by its systematic nature. Everyone has some general conception of the nature of the world in which they live and of their place in it. Metaphysics replaces the unargued assumptions embodied in such a conception with a rational and organized body of beliefs about the world as a whole. Everyone has occasion to doubt and question beliefs, their own or those of others, with more or less success and without any theory of what they are doing. Epistemology seeks by argument to make explicit the rules of correct belief formation. Everyone governs their conduct by directing it to desired or valued ends. Ethics, or moral philosophy, in its most inclusive sense, seeks to articulate, in rationally systematic form, the rules or principles involved. in Honderich 1995.
These divisions are neither exhaustive nor mutually exclusive. (A philosopher might specialize in Kantian epistemology, or Platonic aesthetics, or modern political philosophy). Furthermore, these philosophical inquiries sometimes overlap with each other and with other inquiries such as science, religion or mathematics.[122]
Charles L. Griswold Jr. (2010). Platonic Writings/Platonic Readings. Penn State Press. pp. 144–146. ISBN 978-0271044811. Archived from the original on 1 July 2020. Retrieved 26 July 2021.
REYNOLDS, JACK (4 August 2010). "Common Sense and Philosophical Methodology: Some Metaphilosophical Reflections on Analytic Philosophy and Deleuze". The Philosophical Forum. 41 (3): 231–258. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9191.2010.00361.x. hdl:10536/DRO/DU:30061043. ISSN 0031-806X. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Early Wisdom literature from the Fertile Crescent was a genre that sought to instruct people on ethical action, practical living, and virtue through stories and proverbs. In Ancient Egypt, these texts were known as sebayt ('teachings'), and they are central to our understandings of Ancient Egyptian philosophy. The most well known of these texts is The Maxims of Ptahhotep.[56] Theology and cosmology were central concerns in Egyptian thought. Perhaps the earliest form of a monotheistic theology also emerged in Egypt, with the rise of the Amarna theology (or Atenism) of Akhenaten (14th century BCE), which held that the solar creation deity Aten was the only god. This has been described as a "monotheistic revolution" by egyptologist Jan Assmann, though it also drew on previous developments in Egyptian thought, particularly the "New Solar Theology" based around Amun-Ra.[57][58] These theological developments also influenced the post-Amarna Ramesside theology, which retained a focus on a single creative solar deity (though without outright rejection of other gods, which are now seen as manifestations of the main solar deity). This period also saw the development of the concept of the ba (soul) and its relation to god.[58]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Quinton, Anthony. The Ethics of Philosophical Practice. p. 666. Philosophy is rationally critical thinking, of a more or less systematic kind about the general nature of the world (metaphysics or theory of existence), the justification of belief (epistemology or theory of knowledge), and the conduct of life (ethics or theory of value). Each of the three elements in this list has a non-philosophical counterpart, from which it is distinguished by its explicitly rational and critical way of proceeding and by its systematic nature. Everyone has some general conception of the nature of the world in which they live and of their place in it. Metaphysics replaces the unargued assumptions embodied in such a conception with a rational and organized body of beliefs about the world as a whole. Everyone has occasion to doubt and question beliefs, their own or those of others, with more or less success and without any theory of what they are doing. Epistemology seeks by argument to make explicit the rules of correct belief formation. Everyone governs their conduct by directing it to desired or valued ends. Ethics, or moral philosophy, in its most inclusive sense, seeks to articulate, in rationally systematic form, the rules or principles involved. in Honderich 1995.
Imbo, Samuel Oluoch. An Introduction to African Philosophy. ISBN 978-0-8476-8841-8
"philosophy (n.)". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 13 September 2017. Retrieved 21 March 2022.
Copleston, Frederick Charles (1953). A history of philosophy: volume III: Ockham to Suárez. Paulist Press. ISBN 978-0-8091-0067-5.
Hindu philosophers of the six orthodox schools developed systems of epistemology (pramana) and investigated topics such as metaphysics, ethics, psychology (guṇa), hermeneutics, and soteriology within the framework of the Vedic knowledge, while presenting a diverse collection of interpretations.[79][80][81][82] The commonly named six orthodox schools were the competing philosophical traditions of what has been called the "Hindu synthesis" of classical Hinduism.[83][84][85]
^ a b "Aztec Philosophy". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 25 May 2020. Retrieved 25 December 2016.
"Philosophers Find the Degree Pays Off in Life And in Work"
Early modern philosophy in the Western world begins with thinkers such as Thomas Hobbes and René Descartes (1596–1650).[52] Following the rise of natural science, modern philosophy was concerned with developing a secular and rational foundation for knowledge and moved away from traditional structures of authority such as religion, scholastic thought and the Church. Major modern philosophers include Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant.
Webb, Hillary S. (2012). Yanantin and Masintin in the Andean World: Complementary Dualism in Modern Peru.
Find sources: "Philosophy" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ Portilla, Miguel León (1990). Use of "Tlamatini" in Aztec Thought and Culture: A Study of the Ancient Nahuatl Mind – Miguel León Portilla. ISBN 9780806122953. Archived from the original on 17 December 2019. Retrieved 12 December 2014.
Sellars, Wilfrid (1963). Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind (PDF). Routledge and Kegan Paul Ltd. pp. 1, 40. Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 March 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
"Socrates Tenured". Rowman & Littlefield International. Archived from the original on 9 May 2016. Retrieved 25 April 2016.
There were numerous schools, sub-schools, and traditions of Buddhist philosophy in ancient and medieval India. According to Oxford professor of Buddhist philosophy Jan Westerhoff, the major Indian schools from 300 BCE to 1000 CE were:[103] the Mahāsāṃghika tradition (now extinct), the Sthavira schools (such as Sarvāstivāda, Vibhajyavāda and Pudgalavāda) and the Mahayana schools. Many of these traditions were also studied in other regions, like Central Asia and China, having been brought there by Buddhist missionaries.
^ Dellsén, Finnur; Lawler, Insa; Norton, James (29 June 2021). "Thinking about Progress: From Science to Philosophy". Noûs. 56 (4): 814–840. doi:10.1111/nous.12383. S2CID 235967433.
Essentials of Neo-Confucianism: Eight Major Philosophers of the Song and Ming Periods
Daly, Christopher (20 July 2010). "Introduction". An Introduction to Philosophical Methods. Broadview Press. ISBN 978-1-55111-934-2. Archived from the original on 30 July 2022. Retrieved 7 June 2022.
Sober, Elliott. (2001). Core Questions in Philosophy: A Text with Readings. Upper Saddle River, Prentice Hall. ISBN 978-0-13-189869-1
Daly, Chris (2015). "Introduction and Historical Overview". The Palgrave Handbook of Philosophical Methods. Palgrave Macmillan UK. pp. 1–30. doi:10.1057/9781137344557_1. ISBN 978-1-137-34455-7. Archived from the original on 1 May 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ Little, Daniel (1984). "Reflective Equilibrium and Justification". Southern Journal of Philosophy. 22 (3): 373–387. doi:10.1111/j.2041-6962.1984.tb00354.x. Archived from the original on 1 May 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ Goffi, Jean-Yves; Roux, Sophie (2011). "On the Very Idea of a Thought Experiment". Thought Experiments in Methodological and Historical Contexts. Brill: 165–191. doi:10.1163/ej.9789004201767.i-233.35. ISBN 9789004201774. Archived from the original on 30 October 2021. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Classics of Philosophy (Vols. 1, 2, & 3) by Louis P. Pojman
Mittal, Sushil; Thursby, Gene (2017). Religions of India: An Introduction. Taylor & Francis. pp. 3–5, 15–18, 53–55, 63–67, 85–88, 93–98, 107–15. ISBN 978-1-134-79193-4. Archived from the original on 17 December 2019. Retrieved 11 November 2018.
^ Martin Heidegger (1956). Was Ist Das – die Philosophie?. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 21. ISBN 978-0808403197. Archived from the original on 12 August 2021. Retrieved 26 July 2021.
^ Bawden, H. Heath (1904). "What is Pragmatism?". The Journal of Philosophy, Psychology and Scientific Methods. 1 (16): 421–427. doi:10.2307/2011902. ISSN 0160-9335. JSTOR 2011902. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Guthrie, W. K. C. (1962–1981). A history of Greek philosophy. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 165–166. ISBN 978-0-521-05160-6. OCLC 22488892. Archived from the original on 21 January 2022. Retrieved 12 June 2021. This does not of course amount to saying that the simile goes back to Pythagoras himself, but only that the Greek ideal of philosophia and theoria (for which we may compare Herodotus's attribution of these activities to Solon I, 30) was at a fairly early date annexed by the Pythagoreans for their master
^ "philosophy (n.)". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 13 September 2017. Retrieved 21 March 2022.
Overgaard, Søren; Gilbert, Paul; Burwood, Stephen (2013). "What is philosophy?". An Introduction to Metaphilosophy. Cambridge University Press. pp. 17–44. ISBN 978-0-521-19341-2. Archived from the original on 14 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
^ Kenny, Anthony (31 May 2007). Medieval Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy, Volume 2. OUP Oxford. ISBN 978-0-19-162253-3.
3Branches of philosophy											Toggle Branches of philosophy subsection																					3.1Aesthetics																											3.2Ethics																											3.3Epistemology																											3.4Metaphysics																											3.5Logic																											3.6Mind and language																											3.7Philosophy of science																											3.8Political philosophy																											3.9Philosophy of religion																											3.10Metaphilosophy																											3.11Other subdivisions
^ "ordinary language analysis". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 28 February 2022.
^ Goldenbaum, Ursula. "Geometrical Method". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 17 February 2022.
^ Bronkhorst, Johannes (2012). "Free will and Indian philosophy". Antiquorum Philosophia. Roma Italy. 6: 19–30.
Minor, Robert (1986). Modern Indian Interpreters of the Bhagavad Gita. Albany: State University of New York Press. pp. 74–75, 81. ISBN 0-88706-297-0.
^ Hylton, Peter; Kemp, Gary (2020). "Willard Van Orman Quine: 3. The Analytic-Synthetic Distinction and the Argument Against Logical Empiricism". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 25 February 2021. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
Epistemology is the branch of philosophy that studies knowledge.[131] Epistemologists examine putative sources of knowledge, including perceptual experience, reason, memory, and testimony. They also investigate questions about the nature of truth, belief, justification, and rationality.[132]
Leaman, Oliver; Morewedge, Parviz (2000). "Islamic philosophy modern".In Craig, Edward (ed.). Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Psychology Press. ISBN 978-0-415-22364-5.
An Anthology of Philosophy in Persia, Vol. 2: Ismaili Thought in the Classical Age
"Ethics". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 18 January 2018. Retrieved 6 July 2020.
Deductive reasoning is when, given certain premises, conclusions are unavoidably implied.[135] Rules of inference are used to infer conclusions such as, modus ponens, where given "A” and "If A then B", then "B” must be concluded.
^ Dever, Josh (19 May 2016). "What is Philosophical Methodology?".In Cappelen, Herman; Gendler, Tamar Szabó; Hawthorne, John (eds.). The Oxford Handbook of Philosophical Methodology. pp. 3–24. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199668779.013.34. ISBN 978-0-19-966877-9. Archived from the original on 5 December 2020. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ Wheeler, Michael (2020). "Martin Heidegger". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 6 February 2022. Retrieved 11 February 2022.
Mautner, T., Ed. The Penguin Dictionary of Philosophy. London, Penguin Books.
Garfield, Jay L.; Edelglass, William, eds. (2011). "Chinese Philosophy". The Oxford Handbook of World Philosophy. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780195328998.
^ Perez, Louis G. (1998). The History of Japan. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press. pp. 57–59. ISBN 978-0-313-30296-1.
Existentialism: Basic Writings (Second Edition) by Charles Guignon, Derk Pereboom
Deontology, which judges actions based on whether they are in accordance with one's moral duty.[130] In the standard form defended by Immanuel Kant, deontology is concerned with whether a choice respects the moral agency of other people, regardless of its consequences.[130]
Assmann, Jan (2004). "Theological Responses to Amarna" (PDF).In Knoppers, Gary N.; Hirsch, Antoine (eds.). Egypt, Israel, and the Ancient Mediterranean World. Studies in Honor of Donald B. Redford. Leiden/Boston. pp. 179–191. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 May 2020.
Shapin, Steven (1998). The Scientific Revolution (1st ed.). University Of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-75021-7.
Quinton, Anthony. The Ethics of Philosophical Practice. p. 666. Philosophy is rationally critical thinking, of a more or less systematic kind about the general nature of the world (metaphysics or theory of existence), the justification of belief (epistemology or theory of knowledge), and the conduct of life (ethics or theory of value). Each of the three elements in this list has a non-philosophical counterpart, from which it is distinguished by its explicitly rational and critical way of proceeding and by its systematic nature. Everyone has some general conception of the nature of the world in which they live and of their place in it. Metaphysics replaces the unargued assumptions embodied in such a conception with a rational and organized body of beliefs about the world as a whole. Everyone has occasion to doubt and question beliefs, their own or those of others, with more or less success and without any theory of what they are doing. Epistemology seeks by argument to make explicit the rules of correct belief formation. Everyone governs their conduct by directing it to desired or valued ends. Ethics, or moral philosophy, in its most inclusive sense, seeks to articulate, in rationally systematic form, the rules or principles involved. in Honderich 1995.
^ Wynne, Alexander (2011). "The ātman and its negation". Journal of the International Association of Buddhist Studies. 33 (1–2): 103–05. The denial that a human being possesses a 'self' or 'soul' is probably the most famous Buddhist teaching. It is certainly its most distinct, as has been pointed out by G.P. Malalasekera: 'In its denial of any real permanent Soul or Self, Buddhism stands alone.' A similar modern Sinhalese perspective has been expressed by Walpola Rahula: 'Buddhism stands unique in the history of human thought in denying the existence of such a Soul, Self or Ātman.' The 'no Self' or 'no soul' doctrine (Sanskrit: anātman; Pali: anattan) is particularly notable for its widespread acceptance and historical endurance. It was a standard belief of virtually all the ancient schools of Indian Buddhism (the notable exception being the Pudgalavādins), and has persisted without change into the modern era.… [B]oth views are mirrored by the modern Theravādin perspective of Mahasi Sayadaw that 'there is no person or soul' and the modern Mahāyāna view of the fourteenth Dalai Lama that '[t]he Buddha taught that…our belief in an independent self is the root cause of all suffering.'
Medieval Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy, Volume 2
Sedlmeier, Peter; Srinivas, Kunchapudi (2016). "How do Theories of Cognition and Consciousness in Ancient Indian Thought Systems Relate to Current Western Theorizing and Research?". Frontiers in Psychology. 7: 343. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2016.00343. PMC 4791389. PMID 27014150.
^ Carnap, Rudolf (1953). "Inductive Logic and Science". Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 80 (3): 189–197. doi:10.2307/20023651. JSTOR 20023651.
Portilla, Miguel León (1990). Use of "Tlamatini" in Aztec Thought and Culture: A Study of the Ancient Nahuatl Mind – Miguel León Portilla. ISBN 9780806122953. Archived from the original on 17 December 2019. Retrieved 12 December 2014.
Angeles, P.A., Ed. (1992). The HarperCollins Dictionary of Philosophy. New York, Harper Perennial.
Umāsvāti (1994) [c. 2nd – 5th century]. That Which Is: Tattvartha Sutra. Translated by Tatia, N. HarperCollins. pp. xvii–xviii. ISBN 978-0-06-068985-8. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020.
John Koller (2013). "Shankara".In Chad Meister and Paul Copan (ed.). Routledge Companion to Philosophy of Religion. Routledge. doi:10.4324/9780203813010. ISBN 978-1-136-69685-5. Archived from the original on 12 November 2018. Retrieved 13 November 2018.
^ "Socrates Tenured". Rowman & Littlefield International. Archived from the original on 9 May 2016. Retrieved 25 April 2016.
"Common Sense and Philosophical Methodology: Some Metaphilosophical Reflections on Analytic Philosophy and Deleuze"
Hoffman, Eric, Ed. (1997) Guidebook for Publishing Philosophy. Charlottesville, Philosophy Documentation Center.
^ Kenny, Anthony (17 June 2004). Ancient Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy. OUP Oxford. ISBN 978-0-19-162252-6.
^ "Moral Philosophy". Ethics Unwrapped. Archived from the original on 27 November 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
Some of those who study philosophy become professional philosophers, typically by working as professors who teach, research and write in academic institutions.[178] However, most students of academic philosophy later contribute to law, journalism, religion, sciences, politics, business, or various arts.[179][180] For example, public figures who have degrees in philosophy include comedians Steve Martin and Ricky Gervais, filmmaker Terrence Malick, Pope John Paul II, Wikipedia co-founder Larry Sanger, technology entrepreneur Peter Thiel, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer, Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek, and US vice presidential candidate Carly Fiorina.[181][182] Curtis White has argued that philosophical tools are essential to humanities, sciences and social sciences.[183]
^ Chalmers, David J. (1995). "Facing up to the problem of consciousness". Journal of Consciousness Studies. 2 (3): 200, 219. Archived from the original on 20 November 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Overgaard, Søren; Gilbert, Paul; Burwood, Stephen (2013). "What is philosophy?". An Introduction to Metaphilosophy. Cambridge University Press. pp. 17–44. ISBN 978-0-521-19341-2. Archived from the original on 14 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
^ "philosophy". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 13 September 2017. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Collinson, Diane. Fifty Major Philosophers, A Reference Guide. p. 125.
This page was last edited on 7 March 2023, at 22:04 (UTC).
Nasr, S. H.; Aminrazavi, Mehdi; Jozi, M. R. (30 September 2008). An Anthology of Philosophy in Persia, Vol. 2: Ismaili Thought in the Classical Age. Bloomsbury Academic. ISBN 978-1-84511-542-5.
Little, Daniel (1984). "Reflective Equilibrium and Justification". Southern Journal of Philosophy. 22 (3): 373–387. doi:10.1111/j.2041-6962.1984.tb00354.x. Archived from the original on 1 May 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Mittelstraß, Jürgen (2005). "Philosophie". Enzyklopädie Philosophie und Wissenschaftstheorie. Metzler. Archived from the original on 20 October 2021. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
Moral philosophy (i.e. ethics, from êthika, 'having to do with character, disposition, manners') was the study of goodness, right and wrong, justice and virtue.[143]
Eder, Anna-Maria A.; Lawler, Insa; van Riel, Raphael (1 March 2020). "Philosophical methods under scrutiny: introduction to the special issue philosophical methods". Synthese. 197 (3): 915–923. doi:10.1007/s11229-018-02051-2. ISSN 1573-0964. S2CID 54631297.
Early Islamic philosophy developed the Greek philosophical traditions in new innovative directions. This intellectual work inaugurated what is known as the Islamic Golden Age. The two main currents of early Islamic thought are Kalam, which focuses on Islamic theology, and Falsafa, which was based on Aristotelianism and Neoplatonism. The work of Aristotle was very influential among philosophers such as Al-Kindi (9th century), Avicenna (980 – June 1037), and Averroes (12th century). Others such as Al-Ghazali were highly critical of the methods of the Islamic Aristotelians and saw their metaphysical ideas as heretical. Islamic thinkers like Ibn al-Haytham and Al-Biruni also developed a scientific method, experimental medicine, a theory of optics, and a legal philosophy. Ibn Khaldun was an influential thinker in philosophy of history.
Zangwill, Nick (2019) [2003]. "Aesthetic Judgment". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (revised ed.). Archived from the original on 2 August 2019. Retrieved 9 May 2020.
Kenny, Anthony (17 June 2004). Ancient Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy. OUP Oxford. ISBN 978-0-19-162252-6.
^ a b Gelan, Victor Eugen (2020). "Husserl's Idea of Rigorous Science and Its Relevance for the Human and Social Sciences". The Subject(s) of Phenomenology: Rereading Husserl. Contributions to Phenomenology. Vol. 108. Springer International Publishing. pp. 97–105. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-29357-4_6. ISBN 978-3-030-29357-4. S2CID 213082313. Archived from the original on 2 March 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
Cowell and Gough (1882, Translators), The Sarva-Darsana-Samgraha or Review of the Different Systems of Hindu Philosophy by Madhva Acharya, Trubner's Oriental Series.
"How Buddhism Came to China: A History of the First Thousand Years"
Metaphysical philosophy (i.e. logic, from logikós, 'of or pertaining to reason or speech') was the study of existence, causation, God, logic, forms, and other abstract objects. (meta ta physika, 'after the Physics')
Cottingham, John. Western Philosophy: An Anthology. 2nd ed. Malden, MA: Blackwell Pub., 2008. Print. Blackwell Philosophy Anthologies.
In one general sense, philosophy is associated with wisdom, intellectual culture, and a search for knowledge. In this sense, all cultures and literate societies ask philosophical questions, such as "how are we to live" and "what is the nature of reality". A broad and impartial conception of philosophy, then, finds a reasoned inquiry into such matters as reality, morality, and life in all world civilizations.[47]
^ a b Bilimoria, Puruṣottama (2000). "Hindu Doubts About God: Towards a Mīmāṃsā Deconstruction".In Perrett, Roy W. (ed.). Indian Philosophy. London: Routledge. p. 88. ISBN 978-1135703226.
^ a b c d "Major Ethical Perspectives". saylordotorg.github.io. Archived from the original on 21 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
Critchley, Simon. Continental Philosophy: A Very Short Introduction. ISBN 978-0-19-285359-2
"Epistemology". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 10 July 2019. Retrieved 22 June 2020.
^ "Metaphysics". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Archived from the original on 8 May 2020. Retrieved 8 May 2020.
^ Young, William A. (2005). The World's Religions: Worldviews and Contemporary Issues. Pearson Prentice Hall. pp. 61–64, 78–79. ISBN 978-0-13-183010-3. Archived from the original on 17 December 2019. Retrieved 10 November 2018.
Indigenous Philosophy and World Politics: Cosmopolitical Contributions from across the Americas
History of Jewish Philosophy edited by Daniel H. Frank, Oliver Leaman
^ "philosophy | Definition, Systems, Fields, Schools, & Biographies". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 23 February 2021. Retrieved 29 May 2022.
Goffi, Jean-Yves; Roux, Sophie (2011). "On the Very Idea of a Thought Experiment". Thought Experiments in Methodological and Historical Contexts. Brill: 165–191. doi:10.1163/ej.9789004201767.i-233.35. ISBN 9789004201774. Archived from the original on 30 October 2021. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ a b SHAFFER, MICHAEL J. (2015). "The Problem of Necessary and Sufficient Conditions and Conceptual Analysis". Metaphilosophy. 46 (4/5): 555–563. doi:10.1111/meta.12158. ISSN 0026-1068. JSTOR 26602327. S2CID 148551744. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
^ "Intuitionism (ethics)". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 28 February 2022.
Bronkhorst, Johannes (2012). "Free will and Indian philosophy". Antiquorum Philosophia. Roma Italy. 6: 19–30.
^ Dreyfus, Georges B. J. (1997). Recognizing Reality: Dharmakirti's Philosophy and Its Tibetan Interpretations (Suny Series in Buddhist Studies). p. 22.
Adames, Hector Y.; Chavez-Dueñas, Nayeli Y. (2016). Cultural Foundations and Interventions in Latino/a Mental Health: History, Theory and within Group Differences. Routledge. pp. 20–21.
Kant, Immanuel (2012). Kant: Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals (2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 9781107401068. Ancient Greek philosophy was divided into three branches of knowledge: natural science, ethics, and logic.
Ichikawa, Jonathan (3 April 2011). "Chris Daly: An Introduction to Philosophical Methods". Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 22 February 2022.
Various methods in philosophy give particular importance to intuitions, i.e. non-inferential impressions about the correctness of specific claims or general principles.[155][166] For example, they play an important role in thought experiments, which employ counterfactual thinking to evaluate the possible consequences of an imagined situation. These anticipated consequences can then be used to confirm or refute philosophical theories.[167][168][161] The method of reflective equilibrium also employs intuitions. It seeks to form a coherent position on a certain issue by examining all the relevant beliefs and intuitions, some of which often have to be deemphasized or reformulated in order to arrive at a coherent perspective.[155][169][170] Pragmatists stress the significance of concrete practical consequences for assessing whether a philosophical theory is true or false.[171][172] Experimental philosophy is of rather recent origin. Its methods differ from most other methods of philosophy in that it tries to answer philosophical questions by gathering empirical data in ways similar to social psychology and the cognitive sciences.[173][174]
^ Grimes, John A. (January 1996). A Concise Dictionary of Indian Philosophy: Sanskrit Terms Defined in English. Albany: State University of New York Press. p. 238. ISBN 978-0791430675.
de Blois, François (2000). "Dualism in Iranian and Christian Traditions". Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society. 10 (1): 1–19. doi:10.1017/S1356186300011913. ISSN 1356-1863. JSTOR 25187928. S2CID 162835432.
Dellsén, Finnur; Lawler, Insa; Norton, James (29 June 2021). "Thinking about Progress: From Science to Philosophy". Noûs. 56 (4): 814–840. doi:10.1111/nous.12383. S2CID 235967433.
Some approaches argue that there is a set of essential features shared by all parts of philosophy while others see only weaker family resemblances or contend that it is merely an empty blanket term.[30][27][31] Some definitions characterize philosophy in relation to its method, like pure reasoning. Others focus more on its topic, for example, as the study of the biggest patterns of the world as a whole or as the attempt to answer the big questions.[27][32][33] Both approaches have the problem that they are usually either too wide, by including non-philosophical disciplines, or too narrow, by excluding some philosophical sub-disciplines.[27] Many definitions of philosophy emphasize its intimate relation to science.[25] In this sense, philosophy is sometimes understood as a proper science in its own right. Some naturalist approaches, for example, see philosophy as an empirical yet very abstract science that is concerned with very wide-ranging empirical patterns instead of particular observations.[27][34] Some phenomenologists, on the other hand, characterize philosophy as the science of essences.[26][35][36] Science-based definitions usually face the problem of explaining why philosophy in its long history has not made the type of progress as seen in other sciences.[27][37][38] This problem is avoided by seeing philosophy as an immature or provisional science whose subdisciplines cease to be philosophy once they have fully developed.[25][30][35] In this sense, philosophy is the midwife of the sciences.[25]
Martin Heidegger (1956). Was Ist Das – die Philosophie?. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 21. ISBN 978-0808403197. Archived from the original on 12 August 2021. Retrieved 26 July 2021.
A History of Russian Philosophy: From the Tenth to the Twentieth Centuries by Valerii Aleksandrovich Kuvakin
Edwards, Paul, ed. (1967). The Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Macmillan & Free Press.; in 1996, a ninth supplemental volume appeared that updated the classic 1967 encyclopedia.
4Methods of philosophy											Toggle Methods of philosophy subsection																					4.1Philosophical progress
^ Hiltebeitel, Alf (2007). "Hinduism".In Kitagawa, J. (ed.). The Religious Traditions of Asia: Religion, History, and Culture. London: Routledge.
^ Cameron, Alister (1938). The Pythagorean Background of the theory of Recollection. George Banta Publishing Company.
^ "Influential Women in Philosophy from the Last 10 Years | Academic Influence".
^ Garfield, Jay L.; Edelglass, William, eds. (2011). "Chinese Philosophy". The Oxford Handbook of World Philosophy. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780195328998.
Ebrey, Patricia (2010). The Cambridge Illustrated History of China. New York: Cambridge University Press. p. 42.
19th-century philosophy (sometimes called late modern philosophy) was influenced by the wider 18th-century movement termed "the Enlightenment", and includes figures such as Hegel, a key figure in German idealism; Kierkegaard, who developed the foundations for existentialism; Thomas Carlyle, representative of the great man theory; Nietzsche, a famed anti-Christian; John Stuart Mill, who promoted utilitarianism; Karl Marx, who developed the foundations for communism; and the American William James. The 20th century saw the split between analytic philosophy and continental philosophy, as well as philosophical trends such as phenomenology, existentialism, logical positivism, pragmatism and the linguistic turn (see Contemporary philosophy).[53]
Indian philosophy (Sanskrit: darśana, lit. 'point of view', 'perspective')[69] refers to the diverse philosophical traditions that emerged since the ancient times on the Indian subcontinent. Indian philosophy chiefly considers epistemology, theories of consciousness and theories of mind, and the physical properties of reality. [70] [71] [72] Indian philosophical traditions share various key concepts and ideas, which are defined in different ways and accepted or rejected by the different traditions. These include concepts such as dhárma, karma, pramāṇa, duḥkha, saṃsāra and mokṣa.[73][74]
"philosophy". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 13 September 2017. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
^ McKeon, R. "Methodology (Philosophy)". New Catholic Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 30 April 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ Wainwright, William J. (2005). "Introduction".In Wainwright, W. J. (ed.). The Oxford Handbook of Philosophy of Religion. New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 3–11. ISBN 978-0-19-803158-1. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. p. 3: The expression 'philosophy of religion' did not come into general use until the nineteenth century, when it was employed to refer to the articulation and criticism of humanity's religious consciousness and its cultural expressions in thought, language, feeling, and practice.
^ a b Yeakel, John A. (Fall 1983). "Accountant-Historians of the Incas" (PDF). Accounting Historians Journal. 10 (2): 39–51. doi:10.2308/0148-4184.10.2.39. Archived (PDF) from the original on 12 November 2021.
A History of Western Philosophy (5 vols.) by W.T. Jones
^ van Inwagen, Peter; Sullivan, Meghan (2020). "Metaphysics". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 16 September 2018. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
Garfield, Jay L; Edelglass, William, eds. (9 June 2011). "Introduction". The Oxford Handbook of World Philosophy. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780195328998.001.0001. ISBN 9780195328998. Archived from the original on 31 March 2019. Retrieved 19 December 2019.
Bowker, John (1999). The Oxford Dictionary of World Religions. Oxford University Press, Incorporated. p. 259. ISBN 978-0-19-866242-6.
Maffie, James (March 2002). "Why Care about Nezahualcoyotl? Veritism and Nahua Philosophy". Philosophy of the Social Sciences. Sage Publications. 32 (1): 71–91. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.878.7615. doi:10.1177/004839310203200104. S2CID 144901245. Archived from the original on 18 November 2021.
Some of the most important elements of Jain philosophy are the Jain theory of karma, the doctrine of nonviolence (ahiṃsā) and the theory of "many-sidedness" or Anēkāntavāda. The Tattvartha Sutra is the earliest known, most comprehensive and authoritative compilation of Jain philosophy.[96][97]
^ Chalmers, David (7 May 2013). Why isn't there more progress in philosophy?. Moral Sciences Club (video lecture). Faculty of Philosophy, University of Cambridge. Archived from the original on 12 June 2017. Retrieved 8 May 2020.
Wainwright, William J. (2005). "Introduction".In Wainwright, W. J. (ed.). The Oxford Handbook of Philosophy of Religion. New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 3–11. ISBN 978-0-19-803158-1. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. p. 3: The expression 'philosophy of religion' did not come into general use until the nineteenth century, when it was employed to refer to the articulation and criticism of humanity's religious consciousness and its cultural expressions in thought, language, feeling, and practice.
Sandkühler, Hans Jörg (2010). "Philosophiebegriffe". Enzyklopädie Philosophie. Meiner. Archived from the original on 20 March 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Leaman, Oliver (14 April 2000). A Brief Introduction to Islamic Philosophy. ISBN 978-0-7456-1960-6.
Political philosophy is the study of government and the relationship of individuals (or families and clans) to communities including the state. It includes questions about justice, law, property and the rights and obligations of the citizen. Political philosophy, ethics, and aesthetics are traditionally linked subjects, under the general heading of value theory as they involve a normative or evaluative aspect.[137]
Blackburn, S., Ed. (1996)The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy. Oxford, Oxford University Press.
Honderich, Ted (2005). "Philosophy". The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 29 January 2021. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Dundas, Paul (2002). The Jains (2nd ed.). London: Routledge. pp. 1–19, 40–44. ISBN 978-0415266055.
Brewer, Talbot (2011). The Retrieval of Ethics (1st ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-969222-4.
^ Kelly, Michael (Editor in Chief) (1998) Encyclopedia of Aesthetics. New York, Oxford, Oxford University Press. 4 vol. p. ix. ISBN 978-0-19-511307-5.
In section thirteen of his Lives and Opinions of the Eminent Philosophers, the oldest surviving history of philosophy (3rd century), Diogenes Laërtius presents a three-part division of ancient Greek philosophical inquiry:[141]
"Influential Women in Philosophy from the Last 10 Years | Academic Influence".
^ "aesthetic". Lexico. Oxford University Press and Dictionary.com. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020.
^ Lichtheim, Miriam (1976). Ancient Egyptian Literature, Volume II: The New Kingdom. University of California Press. pp. 61 ff. ISBN 0-520-03615-8.
Scruton, Roger. A Short History of Modern Philosophy. ISBN 978-0-415-26763-2
Because sound reasoning is an essential element of all sciences,[136] social sciences and humanities disciplines, logic became a formal science. Sub-fields include mathematical logic, philosophical logic, modal logic, computational logic and non-classical logics. A major question in the philosophy of mathematics is whether mathematical entities are objective and discovered, called mathematical realism, or invented, called mathematical antirealism.
Recent efforts to avail the general public to the work and relevance of philosophers include the million-dollar Berggruen Prize, first awarded to Charles Taylor in 2016.[184] Some philosophers argue that this professionalization has negatively affected the discipline.[185]
^ a b Whiteley, Peter M. (1998). "Native American philosophy". Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Taylor & Francis. doi:10.4324/9780415249126-N078-1. ISBN 9780415250696. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020.
Gelan, Victor Eugen (2020). "Husserl's Idea of Rigorous Science and Its Relevance for the Human and Social Sciences". The Subject(s) of Phenomenology: Rereading Husserl. Contributions to Phenomenology. Vol. 108. Springer International Publishing. pp. 97–105. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-29357-4_6. ISBN 978-3-030-29357-4. S2CID 213082313. Archived from the original on 2 March 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
"Aztec Philosophy". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 25 May 2020. Retrieved 25 December 2016.
^ Festugiere, A.J. (1958). "Les Trios Vies". Acta Congressus Madvigiani. Vol. 2. Copenhagen. pp. 131–78.
Quine, Willard Van Orman (2008). "41. A Letter to Mr. Ostermann". Quine in Dialogue. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-03083-1. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
^ Plantinga, Alvin (2014).Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Religion and Science (Spring 2014 ed.). Archived from the original on 18 March 2019. Retrieved 25 April 2016.
Kupperman, Joel J. Classic Asian Philosophy: A Guide to the Essential Texts. ISBN 978-0-19-513335-6
Hamilton, Sue. Indian Philosophy: a Very Short Introduction. ISBN 978-0-19-285374-5
^ Chadha, M. (2015).Oppy, G. (ed.). The Routledge Handbook of Contemporary Philosophy of Religion. London: Routledge. pp. 127–28. ISBN 978-1844658312.
^ Nasr, S. H.; Aminrazavi, Mehdi; Jozi, M. R. (30 September 2008). An Anthology of Philosophy in Persia, Vol. 2: Ismaili Thought in the Classical Age. Bloomsbury Academic. ISBN 978-1-84511-542-5.
Prominent 21st century philosophers include: Judith Butler, Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, Martha Nussbaum, Onora O'Neill, and Nancy Fraser.[190] [191]
Methodological skepticism is a prominent method of philosophy. It aims to arrive at absolutely certain first principles by using systematic doubt to determine which principles of philosophy are indubitable.[157] The geometrical method tries to build a comprehensive philosophical system based on a small set of such axioms. It does so with the help of deductive reasoning to expand the certainty of its axioms to the system as a whole.[158][159] Phenomenologists seek certain knowledge about the realm of appearances. They do so by suspending their judgments about the external world in order to focus on how things appear independent of their underlying reality, a technique known as epoché.[160][148] Conceptual analysis is a well-known method in analytic philosophy. It aims to clarify the meaning of concepts by analyzing them into their fundamental constituents.[161][39][23] Another method often employed in analytic philosophy is based on common sense. It starts with commonly accepted beliefs and tries to draw interesting conclusions from them, which it often employs in a negative sense to criticize philosophical theories that are too far removed from how the average person sees the issue.[151][162][163] It is very similar to how ordinary language philosophy tackles philosophical questions by investigating how ordinary language is used.[148][164][165]
Sandkühler, Hans Jörg, ed. (2010). "Methode/Methodologie". Enzyklopädie Philosophie. Meiner. Archived from the original on 20 March 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Overgaard, Søren; D’Oro, Giuseppina (2017). "Introduction". The Cambridge Companion to Philosophical Methodology. Cambridge University Press. pp. 1–10. ISBN 978-1-107-54736-0. Archived from the original on 1 May 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ Doniger, Wendy (2018) [1998]. "Bhagavad Gita". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 21 August 2018. Retrieved 10 November 2018.
Nado, Jennifer (1 September 2017). "How To Think About Philosophical Methodology". Journal of Indian Council of Philosophical Research. 34 (3): 447–463. doi:10.1007/s40961-017-0116-8. ISSN 2363-9962. S2CID 171569977. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Philosophy of language explores the nature, origins, and use of language. Philosophy of mind explores the nature of the mind and its relationship to the body, as typified by disputes between materialism and dualism. In recent years, this branch has become related to cognitive science.
^ Biletzki, Anat; Matar, Anat (2021). "Ludwig Wittgenstein: 3.7 The Nature of Philosophy". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 8 September 2018. Retrieved 11 February 2022.
Rescher, Nicholas (2 May 2013). "1. The Nature of Philosophy". On the Nature of Philosophy and Other Philosophical Essays. Walter de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-032020-6. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Cappelen, Herman; Gendler, Tamar Szabó; Hawthorne, John (19 May 2016). "Preface". The Oxford Handbook of Philosophical Methodology. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199668779.013.34. ISBN 978-0-19-966877-9. Archived from the original on 5 December 2020. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ "Philosophy". Lexico. University of Oxford Press. 2020. Archived from the original on 28 March 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
^ a b Ichikawa, Jonathan (3 April 2011). "Chris Daly: An Introduction to Philosophical Methods". Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 22 February 2022.
^ Quine, Willard Van Orman (2008). "41. A Letter to Mr. Ostermann". Quine in Dialogue. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-03083-1. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
^ John Koller (2013). "Shankara".In Chad Meister and Paul Copan (ed.). Routledge Companion to Philosophy of Religion. Routledge. doi:10.4324/9780203813010. ISBN 978-1-136-69685-5. Archived from the original on 12 November 2018. Retrieved 13 November 2018.
Aesthetics is the "critical reflection on art, culture and nature".[123][124] It addresses the nature of art, beauty and taste, enjoyment, emotional values, perception and the creation and appreciation of beauty.[125] It is more precisely defined as the study of sensory or sensori-emotional values, sometimes called judgments of sentiment and taste.[126] Its major divisions are art theory, literary theory, film theory and music theory. An example from art theory is to discern the set of principles underlying the work of a particular artist or artistic movement such as the Cubist aesthetic.[127]
^ "Famous Philosophy Majors". Mansfield University Department of Marketing. Archived from the original on 31 March 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.
Cameron, Alister (1938). The Pythagorean Background of the theory of Recollection. George Banta Publishing Company.
"What Erwin Schrödinger Said About the Upanishads – the Wire Science"
Aminrazavi, Mehdi Amin Razavi; Nasr, Seyyed Hossein; Nasr, PH.D., Seyyed Hossein (16 December 2013). The Islamic Intellectual Tradition in Persia. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-136-78105-6.
Kenny, Anthony (29 June 2006). The Rise of Modern Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy, Volume 3. OUP Oxford. ISBN 978-0-19-875277-6.
^ McDermid, Douglas. "Pragmatism". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 23 May 2019. Retrieved 22 February 2022.
"Philosophy v science: which can answer the big questions of life?"
^ Kenny, Anthony (29 June 2006). The Rise of Modern Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy, Volume 3. OUP Oxford. ISBN 978-0-19-875277-6.
"How do Theories of Cognition and Consciousness in Ancient Indian Thought Systems Relate to Current Western Theorizing and Research?"
Issues include the existence of God, the relationship between reason and faith, questions of religious epistemology, the relationship between religion and science, how to interpret religious experiences, questions about the possibility of an afterlife, the problem of religious language and the existence of souls and responses to religious pluralism and diversity.
^ a b Rescher, Nicholas (2 May 2013). "1. The Nature of Philosophy". On the Nature of Philosophy and Other Philosophical Essays. Walter de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-032020-6. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Riedel, Tom. "[Review:] Encyclopedia of Aesthetics" (PDF). Art Documentation. 18 (2). Archived from the original (PDF) on 13 February 2006.
Bunnin, Nicholas; Tsui-James, Eric, eds. (15 April 2008). The Blackwell Companion to Philosophy. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0-470-99787-1.
Cooper, William W.; Yue, Piyu (2008). Challenges of the Muslim world: present, future and past. Emerald Group Publishing. ISBN 978-0-444-53243-5.
The Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy (10 vols.) edited by Edward Craig, Luciano Floridi (available online by subscription); or
^ Cicero, Marcus Tullius (1877). Tusculan Disputations. New York: Harper & Brothers. p. 166. Archived from the original on 18 May 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2021. From whence all who occupied themselves in the contemplation of nature were both considered and called wise men; and that name of theirs continued to the age of Pythagoras, who is reported to have gone to Phlius, as we find it stated by Heraclides Ponticus, a very learned man, and a pupil of Plato, and to have discoursed very learnedly and copiously on certain subjects with Leon, prince of the Phliasii; and when Leon, admiring his ingenuity and eloquence, asked him what art he particularly professed, his answer was, that he was acquainted with no art, but that he was a philosopher. Leon, surprised at the novelty of the name, inquired what he meant by the name of philosopher, and in what philosophers differed from other men; on which Pythagoras replied, "That the life of man seemed to him to resemble those games which were celebrated with the greatest possible variety of sports and the general concourse of all Greece. For as in those games there were some persons whose object was glory and the honor of a crown, to be attained by the performance of bodily exercises, so others were led thither by the gain of buying and selling, and mere views of profit; but there was likewise one class of persons, and they were by far the best, whose aim was neither applause nor profit, but who came merely as spectators through curiosity, to observe what was done, and to see in what manner things were carried on there. And thus, said he, we come from another life and nature unto this one, just as men come out of some other city, to some much frequented mart; some being slaves to glory, others to money; and there are some few who, taking no account of anything else, earnestly look into the nature of things; and these men call themselves studious of wisdom, that is, philosophers: and as there it is the most reputable occupation of all to be a looker-on without making any acquisition, so in life, the contemplating things, and acquainting one's self with them, greatly exceeds every other pursuit of life."
^ "philosophy (n.)". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 2 July 2017. Retrieved 22 August 2010.
^ Najovits, Simson (2004). Egypt, the Trunk of the Tree, A Modern Survey of and Ancient Land, Vol. II. New York: Algora Publishing. p. 131. ISBN 978-0875862569.
Lochtefeld, James (2002). "Ajivika". The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Hinduism, Vol. 1: A–M. Rosen Publishing. p. 22. ISBN 978-0823931798.
^ Gutas, Dimitri (1998). Greek Thought, Arabic Culture: The Graeco-Arabic Translation Movement in Baghdad and Early Abbasid Society (2nd-4th/8th-10th centuries). Routledge. pp. 1–26.
Baggini, Julian; Krauss, Lawrence (8 September 2012). "Philosophy v science: which can answer the big questions of life?". the Guardian. Archived from the original on 14 February 2022. Retrieved 11 February 2022.
After the disappearance of Buddhism from India, some of these philosophical traditions continued to develop in the Tibetan Buddhist, East Asian Buddhist and Theravada Buddhist traditions.[104][105]
Copleston, Frederick. Philosophy in Russia: From Herzen to Lenin and Berdyaev. ISBN 978-0-268-01569-5
8Further reading											Toggle Further reading subsection																					8.1General introduction																											8.2Topical introductions																								8.2.1African																											8.2.2Eastern																											8.2.3Islamic																														8.3Historical introductions																								8.3.1General																											8.3.2Ancient																											8.3.3Medieval																											8.3.4Modern and contemporary																														8.4Reference works
^ Jaini, Padmanabh S. (1998) [1979]. The Jaina Path of Purification. Motilal Banarsidass. pp. 81–83. ISBN 81-208-1578-5. Archived from the original on 16 February 2020. Retrieved 19 November 2018.
Parker-Ryan, Sally. "Ordinary Language Philosophy". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 28 February 2022.
^ a b Mittelstraß, Jürgen (2005). "Philosophie". Enzyklopädie Philosophie und Wissenschaftstheorie. Metzler. Archived from the original on 20 October 2021. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
^ Bhattacharya, R (2011). Studies on the Carvaka/Lokayata. Anthem. pp. 53, 94, 141–142. ISBN 978-0857284334.
Adler, Mortimer J. (2000). How to Think About the Great Ideas: From the Great Books of Western Civilization. Chicago, Ill.: Open Court. ISBN 978-0-8126-9412-3.
Buddhism began arriving in China during the Han Dynasty, through a gradual Silk road transmission,[108] and through native influences developed distinct Chinese forms (such as Chan/Zen) which spread throughout the East Asian cultural sphere.
Festugiere, A.J. (1958). "Les Trios Vies". Acta Congressus Madvigiani. Vol. 2. Copenhagen. pp. 131–78.
^ Pierotti, Raymond (2003). "Communities as both Ecological and Social entities in Native American thought" (PDF). Native American Symposium 5. Durant, OK: Southeastern Oklahoma State University. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 April 2016.
Philosophical questions can be grouped into various branches. These groupings allow philosophers to focus on a set of similar topics and interact with other thinkers who are interested in the same questions.
^ Chalmers, David J. (2015). "Why Isn't There More Progress in Philosophy?". Philosophy. 90 (1): 3–31. doi:10.1017/s0031819114000436. hdl:1885/57201. S2CID 170974260. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
Del Soldato, Eva (2020). "Natural Philosophy in the Renaissance". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 27 November 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
^ "What Erwin Schrödinger Said About the Upanishads – the Wire Science".
^ Umāsvāti (1994) [c. 2nd – 5th century]. That Which Is: Tattvartha Sutra. Translated by Tatia, N. HarperCollins. pp. xvii–xviii. ISBN 978-0-06-068985-8. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020.
^ White, Curtis (2014). The Science Delusion: Asking the Big Questions in a Culture of Easy Answers. Brooklyn, NY: Melville House. ISBN 9781612193908.
Chadha, M. (2015).Oppy, G. (ed.). The Routledge Handbook of Contemporary Philosophy of Religion. London: Routledge. pp. 127–28. ISBN 978-1844658312.
McKeon, R. "Methodology (Philosophy)". New Catholic Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 30 April 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Honderich, T., ed. (1995). The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-866132-0.
^ a b "Ethics". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 18 January 2018. Retrieved 6 July 2020.
History of Islamic Philosophy edited by Seyyed Hossein Nasr, Oliver Leaman
Ayer, A.J. et al., Ed. (1994) A Dictionary of Philosophical Quotations. Blackwell Reference Oxford. Oxford, Basil Blackwell Ltd.
According to the assyriologist Marc Van de Mieroop, Babylonian philosophy was a highly developed system of thought with a unique approach to knowledge and a focus on writing, lexicography, divination, and law.[54] It was also a bilingual intellectual culture, based on Sumerian and Akkadian.[55]
Knobe, Joshua; Nichols, Shaun (2017). "Experimental Philosophy". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 19 March 2020. Retrieved 1 March 2022.
Steup, Matthias; Neta, Ram (2020). "Epistemology". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 20 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
Kelly, Michael (Editor in Chief) (1998) Encyclopedia of Aesthetics. New York, Oxford, Oxford University Press. 4 vol. p. ix. ISBN 978-0-19-511307-5.
Metaphilosophy explores the aims, boundaries and methods of philosophy. It is debated as to whether metaphilosophy is a subject that comes prior to philosophy[139] or whether it is inherently part of philosophy.[140]
^ Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich; Brown, Robert F. (2006). Lectures on the History of Philosophy: Greek philosophy. Clarendon Press. p. 33. ISBN 978-0-19-927906-7.
^ Guthrie, W. K. C. (1962–1981). A history of Greek philosophy. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 165–166. ISBN 978-0-521-05160-6. OCLC 22488892. Archived from the original on 21 January 2022. Retrieved 12 June 2021. This does not of course amount to saying that the simile goes back to Pythagoras himself, but only that the Greek ideal of philosophia and theoria (for which we may compare Herodotus's attribution of these activities to Solon I, 30) was at a fairly early date annexed by the Pythagoreans for their master
Copenhaver, Brian P.; Schmitt, Charles B. (1992). Renaissance philosophy. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-219203-5.
^ Johnson, W. J. (2009). "darśana". Oxford Reference. Archived from the original on 9 March 2021. From: Johnson, W. J., ed. (2009). "darśan(a)". A Dictionary of Hinduism. Oxford: Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acref/9780198610250.001.0001. ISBN 9780191726705. Archived from the original on 3 September 2020.
Kim, J. and Ernest Sosa, Ed. (1999). Metaphysics: An Anthology. Blackwell Philosophy Anthologies. Oxford, Blackwell Publishers Ltd.
There is wide agreement that philosophy (from the ancient Greek φίλος, phílos: "love"; and σοφία, sophía: "wisdom")[22] is characterized by various general features: it is a form of rational inquiry, it aims to be systematic, and it tends to critically reflect on its own methods and presuppositions.[23][24][25] But approaches that go beyond such vague characterizations to give a more interesting or profound definition are usually controversial.[24][25] Often, they are only accepted by theorists belonging to a certain philosophical movement and are revisionistic in that many presumed parts of philosophy would not deserve the title "philosophy" if they were true.[26][27] Before the modern age, the term was used in a very wide sense, which included the individual sciences, like physics or mathematics, as its sub-disciplines, but the contemporary usage is more narrow.[25][28][29]
The 19th- and 20th-century Arab world saw the Nahda movement (literally meaning 'The Awakening'; also known as the 'Arab Renaissance'), which had a considerable influence on contemporary Islamic philosophy.
Chalmers, David J. (2015). "Why Isn't There More Progress in Philosophy?". Philosophy. 90 (1): 3–31. doi:10.1017/s0031819114000436. hdl:1885/57201. S2CID 170974260. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
Historically, philosophy encompassed all bodies of knowledge and a practitioner was known as a philosopher.[15] "Natural philosophy", which began as a discipline in ancient India and Ancient Greece, encompasses astronomy, medicine, and physics.[16][17] For example, Isaac Newton's 1687 Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy later became classified as a book of physics. In the 19th century, the growth of modern research universities led academic philosophy and other disciplines to professionalize and specialize.[18][19] Since then, various areas of investigation that were traditionally part of philosophy have become separate academic disciplines, and namely the social sciences such as psychology, sociology, linguistics, and economics.
Modern Japanese thought meanwhile developed under strong Western influences such as the study of Western Sciences (Rangaku) and the modernist Meirokusha intellectual society, which drew from European enlightenment thought and promoted liberal reforms as well as Western philosophies like Liberalism and Utilitarianism. Another trend in modern Japanese philosophy was the "National Studies" (Kokugaku) tradition. This intellectual trend sought to study and promote ancient Japanese thought and culture. Kokugaku thinkers such as Motoori Norinaga sought to return to a pure Japanese tradition which they called Shinto that they saw as untainted by foreign elements.
Churton, Tobias (25 January 2005). Gnostic Philosophy: From Ancient Persia to Modern Times. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1-59477-767-7.
"What is philosophy as a way of life? Why philosophy as a way of life?"
Maffie, James (2013). "Pre-Columbian Philosophies". A Companion to Latin American Philosophy. By Nuccetelli, Susana; Schutte, Ofelia; Bueno, Otávio. Wiley Blackwell.
Olson, Carl (2007). The Many Colors of Hinduism: A Thematic-historical Introduction. Rutgers University Press. pp. 101–19. ISBN 978-0813540689.
^ a b c Daly, Chris (2015). "Introduction and Historical Overview". The Palgrave Handbook of Philosophical Methods. Palgrave Macmillan UK. pp. 1–30. doi:10.1057/9781137344557_1. ISBN 978-1-137-34455-7. Archived from the original on 1 May 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Sinclair, Alistair J. What is Philosophy? An Introduction, 2008, ISBN 978-1-903765-94-4
East Asian philosophical thought began in Ancient China, and Chinese philosophy begins during the Western Zhou Dynasty and the following periods after its fall when the "Hundred Schools of Thought" flourished (6th century to 221 BCE).[106][107] This period was characterized by significant intellectual and cultural developments and saw the rise of the major philosophical schools of China such as Confucianism (also known as Ruism), Legalism, and Taoism as well as numerous other less influential schools like Mohism and Naturalism. These philosophical traditions developed metaphysical, political and ethical theories such Tao, Yin and yang, Ren and Li.
A Source Book in Indian Philosophy by Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, Charles A. Moore
^ Plakias, Alexandra (3 February 2015). "Experimental Philosophy". Oxford Handbooks Online. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199935314.013.17. ISBN 978-0-19-993531-4. Archived from the original on 21 January 2022. Retrieved 1 March 2022.
Ingarden, Roman (1975). "The Concept of Philosophy as Rigorous Science". On the Motives which led Husserl to Transcendental Idealism. Phaenomenologica. Vol. 64. Springer Netherlands. pp. 8–11. doi:10.1007/978-94-010-1689-6_3. ISBN 978-94-010-1689-6. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
"Philosophy". Lexico. University of Oxford Press. 2020. Archived from the original on 28 March 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
In Against the Logicians the Pyrrhonist philosopher Sextus Empiricus detailed the variety of ways in which the ancient Greek philosophers had divided philosophy, noting that this three-part division was agreed to by Plato, Aristotle, Xenocrates, and the Stoics.[144] The Academic Skeptic philosopher Cicero also followed this three-part division.[145]
^ The definition of philosophy is: "1. orig., love of, or the search for, wisdom or knowledge 2. theory or logical analysis of the principles underlying conduct, thought, knowledge, and the nature of the universe". Webster's New World Dictionary (Second College ed.).
Cogan, John. "Phenomenological Reduction, The". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 4 April 2020. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
Although men have generally dominated philosophical discourse, women philosophers have engaged in the discipline throughout history. The list of female philosophers throughout history is vast. Ancient examples include Hipparchia of Maroneia (active c. 325 BCE) and Arete of Cyrene (active 5th–4th centuries BCE). Some women philosophers were accepted during the medieval and modern eras, but none became part of the Western canon until the 20th and 21st century, when many suggest that G.E.M. Anscombe, Hannah Arendt, bell hooks, Simone de Beauvoir, Simone Weil and Susanne Langer entered the canon.[186][187][188]
Jain philosophy is one of the only two surviving "unorthodox" traditions (along with Buddhism). It generally accepts the concept of a permanent soul (jiva) as one of the five astikayas (eternal, infinite categories that make up the substance of existence). The other four being dhárma, adharma, ākāśa ('space'), and pudgala ('matter'). Jain thought holds that all existence is cyclic, eternal and uncreated.[94][95]
^ a b Leonardo Esteban Figueroa Helland (2012). Indigenous Philosophy and World Politics: Cosmopolitical Contributions from across the Americas (PDF) (PhD dissertation). Arizona State University. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 November 2021.
The doctrines of the Vedas and Upanishads were interpreted differently by these six schools of Hindu philosophy, with varying degrees of overlap. They represent a "collection of philosophical views that share a textual connection", according to Chadha (2015).[78] They also reflect a tolerance for a diversity of philosophical interpretations within Hinduism while sharing the same foundation.[ii]
^ Whitehead, Alfred North (11 May 2010). Process and Reality. Simon & Schuster. p. 39. ISBN 978-1-4391-1836-8.
^ Churton, Tobias (25 January 2005). Gnostic Philosophy: From Ancient Persia to Modern Times. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1-59477-767-7.
^ a b Daly, Christopher (20 July 2010). "Introduction". An Introduction to Philosophical Methods. Broadview Press. ISBN 978-1-55111-934-2. Archived from the original on 30 July 2022. Retrieved 7 June 2022.
^ "Where Can Philosophy Take Me? | Philosophy". University of Kentucky College of Arts & Sciences. Archived from the original on 10 April 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.
O'Brien, Barbara (25 June 2019). "How Buddhism Came to China: A History of the First Thousand Years". Learn Religions. Archived from the original on 27 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
A History of Indian Philosophy (5 vols.) by Surendranath Dasgupta
Williamson, Timothy (2020). 1. Introduction. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-184724-0. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Use of "Tlamatini" in Aztec Thought and Culture: A Study of the Ancient Nahuatl Mind – Miguel León Portilla
2Historical overview											Toggle Historical overview subsection																					2.1Western philosophy																								2.1.1Ancient era																											2.1.2Medieval era																											2.1.3Modern era																														2.2Middle Eastern philosophy																								2.2.1Pre-Islamic philosophy																											2.2.2Islamic philosophy																														2.3Eastern philosophy																								2.3.1Indian philosophy																											2.3.2Buddhist philosophy																											2.3.3East Asian philosophy																														2.4African philosophy																											2.5Indigenous American philosophy
The Main Trends in Philosophy. A Theoretical Analysis of the History of Philosophy
Encyclopaedia of Indian Philosophies (8 vols.), edited by Karl H. Potter et al. (first 6 volumes out of print)
^ a b c d "Epistemology". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 21 July 2020. Retrieved 30 June 2020.
"Epistemology". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Archived from the original on 8 May 2020. Retrieved 8 May 2020.
Nuttall, Jon (3 July 2013). "1. The Nature of Philosophy". An Introduction to Philosophy. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0-7456-6807-9. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Johnson, W. J. (2009). "darśana". Oxford Reference. Archived from the original on 9 March 2021. From: Johnson, W. J., ed. (2009). "darśan(a)". A Dictionary of Hinduism. Oxford: Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acref/9780198610250.001.0001. ISBN 9780191726705. Archived from the original on 3 September 2020.
^ Grimm, Stephen R.; Cohoe, Caleb (2021). "What is philosophy as a way of life? Why philosophy as a way of life?". European Journal of Philosophy. 29 (1): 236–251. doi:10.1111/ejop.12562. ISSN 1468-0378. S2CID 225504495. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Knight, Kelvin. Aristotelian Philosophy: Ethics and Politics from Aristotle to MacIntyre. ISBN 978-0-7456-1977-4
"The Problem of Necessary and Sufficient Conditions and Conceptual Analysis"
Reese, W.L. Dictionary of Philosophy and Religion: Eastern and Western Thought. Atlantic Highlands, N.J.: Humanities Press, 1980. iv, 644 p. ISBN 978-0-391-00688-1
Bartholomew, Craig G.; Goheen, Michael W. (15 October 2013). Christian Philosophy: A Systematic and Narrative Introduction. Baker Academic. ISBN 978-1-4412-4471-0.
Doniger, Wendy (2018) [1998]. "Bhagavad Gita". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 21 August 2018. Retrieved 10 November 2018.
"What Erwin Schrödinger Said About the Upanishads – the Wire Science".
Mill, John Stuart (1863). Utilitarianism. London: Parker, Son, and Bourn, West Strand. p. 51. OCLC 78070085.
^ Nado, Jennifer (1 September 2017). "How To Think About Philosophical Methodology". Journal of Indian Council of Philosophical Research. 34 (3): 447–463. doi:10.1007/s40961-017-0116-8. ISSN 2363-9962. S2CID 171569977. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Haldane, John (June 2000). "In Memoriam: G. E. M. Anscombe (1919–2001)". The Review of Metaphysics. 53 (4): 1019–1021. JSTOR 20131480.
Runes, D., ed. (1942). The Dictionary of Philosophy. New York: The Philosophical Library, Inc. Archived from the original on 24 April 2014. Retrieved 27 December 2005.
Kenny, Anthony (2012). A New History of Western Philosophy. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-958988-3.
^ a b c Audi, Robert (2006). "Philosophy". Macmillan Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2nd Edition. Macmillan. Archived from the original on 14 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Corbin, Henry (23 June 2014) [1993]. History Of Islamic Philosophy. Translated by Sherrard, Liadain; Sherrard, Philip. Taylor & Francis. ISBN 978-1-135-19888-6.
Higgins, Kathleen M. and Solomon, Robert C. A Short History of Philosophy. ISBN 978-0-19-510196-6
^ Bowker, John (1999). The Oxford Dictionary of World Religions. Oxford University Press, Incorporated. p. 259. ISBN 978-0-19-866242-6.
^ Dundas, Paul (2002). The Jains (2nd ed.). London: Routledge. pp. 1–19, 40–44. ISBN 978-0415266055.
^ Nadler, Steven (2006). "The geometric method". Spinoza's 'Ethics': An Introduction. Cambridge University Press. pp. 35–51. ISBN 978-0-521-83620-3. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Hemacandra (1998). The Lives of the Jain Elders. Oxford University Press. pp. 258–60. ISBN 978-0-19-283227-6. Archived from the original on 23 December 2016. Retrieved 19 November 2018.
SHAFFER, MICHAEL J. (2015). "The Problem of Necessary and Sufficient Conditions and Conceptual Analysis". Metaphilosophy. 46 (4/5): 555–563. doi:10.1111/meta.12158. ISSN 0026-1068. JSTOR 26602327. S2CID 148551744. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Horwich, Paul (19 May 2016). "Wittgenstein's Global Deflationism".In Cappelen, Herman; Gendler, Tamar Szabó; Hawthorne, John (eds.). The Oxford Handbook of Philosophical Methodology. Oxford. pp. 130–146. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199668779.013.35. ISBN 978-0-19-966877-9. Archived from the original on 5 December 2020. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
During the 17th century, Ethiopian philosophy developed a robust literary tradition as exemplified by Zera Yacob. Another early African philosopher was Anton Wilhelm Amo (c. 1703–1759) who became a respected philosopher in Germany. Distinct African philosophical ideas include Ujamaa, the Bantu idea of 'Force', Négritude, Pan-Africanism and Ubuntu. Contemporary African thought has also seen the development of Professional philosophy and of Africana philosophy, the philosophical literature of the African diaspora which includes currents such as black existentialism by African-Americans. Some modern African thinkers have been influenced by Marxism, African-American literature, Critical theory, Critical race theory, Postcolonialism and Feminism.
International Directory of Philosophy and Philosophers. Charlottesville, Philosophy Documentation Center.
In the Modern era, Chinese thinkers incorporated ideas from Western philosophy. Chinese Marxist philosophy developed under the influence of Mao Zedong, while a Chinese pragmatism developed under Hu Shih. The old traditional philosophies also began to reassert themselves in the 20th century. For example, New Confucianism, led by figures such as Xiong Shili, has become quite influential. Likewise, Humanistic Buddhism is a recent modernist Buddhist movement.
Sharma, Arvind (1990). A Hindu Perspective on the Philosophy of Religion. Palgrave Macmillan. pp. 1–2. ISBN 978-1-349-20797-8. Archived from the original on 12 January 2020. Retrieved 11 November 2018. The attitude towards the existence of God varies within the Hindu religious tradition. This may not be entirely unexpected given the tolerance for doctrinal diversity for which the tradition is known. Thus of the six orthodox systems of Hindu philosophy, only three address the question in some detail. These are the schools of thought known as Nyaya, Yoga and the theistic forms of Vedanta.
Western philosophy is the philosophical tradition of the Western world, dating back to pre-Socratic thinkers who were active in 6th-century Greece (BCE), such as Thales (c. 624 – c. 545 BCE) and Pythagoras (c. 570 – c. 495 BCE) who practiced a "love of wisdom" (Latin: philosophia)[48] and were also termed "students of nature" (physiologoi).
"Epistemology". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 21 July 2020. Retrieved 30 June 2020.
^ Horwich, Paul (19 May 2016). "Wittgenstein's Global Deflationism".In Cappelen, Herman; Gendler, Tamar Szabó; Hawthorne, John (eds.). The Oxford Handbook of Philosophical Methodology. Oxford. pp. 130–146. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199668779.013.35. ISBN 978-0-19-966877-9. Archived from the original on 5 December 2020. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ a b Honderich, Ted (2005). "Philosophy". The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 29 January 2021. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Husserl, Edmund; Welton, Donn (1999). The Essential Husserl: Basic Writings in Transcendental Phenomenology. Indiana University Press. ISBN 978-0-253-21273-3.
^ Keddie, Nikki R. (28 October 2013). Iran: Religion, Politics and Society: Collected Essays. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-136-28041-2.
"Philosophical methods under scrutiny: introduction to the special issue philosophical methods"
Routledge History of Philosophy (10 vols.) edited by John Marenbon
Chalmers, David J. (1995). "Facing up to the problem of consciousness". Journal of Consciousness Studies. 2 (3): 200, 219. Archived from the original on 20 November 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
^ Cogan, John. "Phenomenological Reduction, The". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 4 April 2020. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
Encyclopedia of Eastern Philosophy and Religion by Ingrid Fischer-Schreiber, Franz-Karl Ehrhard, Kurt Friedrichs
Buddhist philosophy begins with the thought of Gautama Buddha (fl. between 6th and 4th century BCE) and is preserved in the early Buddhist texts. It originated in the Indian region of Magadha and later spread to the rest of the Indian subcontinent, East Asia, Tibet, Central Asia, and Southeast Asia. In these regions, Buddhist thought developed into different philosophical traditions which used various languages (like Tibetan, Chinese and Pali). As such, Buddhist philosophy is a trans-cultural and international phenomenon.
^ Hadot, Pierre (1997). "11. Philosophy as a Way of Life". Philosophy as a Way of Life: Spiritual Exercises From Socrates to Foucault. Blackwell. Archived from the original on 14 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Rutherford, Donald (2006). The Cambridge Companion to Early Modern Philosophy. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-82242-8.
Other definitions focus more on the contrast between science and philosophy. A common theme among many such definitions is that philosophy is concerned with meaning, understanding, or the clarification of language.[32][27] According to one view, philosophy is conceptual analysis, which involves finding the necessary and sufficient conditions for the application of concepts.[33][27][39] Another defines philosophy as a linguistic therapy that aims at dispelling misunderstandings to which humans are susceptible due to the confusing structure of natural language.[26][25][40] One more approach holds that the main task of philosophy is to articulate the pre-ontological understanding of the world, which acts as a condition of possibility of experience.[27][41][42]
^ "The English word "philosophy" is first attested to c. 1300, meaning "knowledge, body of knowledge".Harper, Douglas (2020). "philosophy (n.)". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 2 July 2017. Retrieved 8 May 2020.
Jewish philosophy and Christian philosophy are religious-philosophical traditions that developed both in the Middle East and in Europe, which both share certain early Judaic texts (mainly the Tanakh) and monotheistic beliefs. Jewish thinkers such as the Geonim of the Talmudic Academies in Babylonia and Maimonides engaged with Greek and Islamic philosophy. Later Jewish philosophy came under strong Western intellectual influences and includes the works of Moses Mendelssohn who ushered in the Haskalah (the Jewish Enlightenment), Jewish existentialism, and Reform Judaism.[59][60]
Schroeder, Mark (2021). "Value Theory".In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2021 ed.). Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 31 March 2021. Retrieved 27 March 2021. In its broadest sense, 'value theory' is a catch-all label used to encompass all branches of moral philosophy, social and political philosophy, aesthetics, and sometimes feminist philosophy and the philosophy of religion – whatever areas of philosophy are deemed to encompass some 'evaluative' aspect.
^ Tiwari, Kedar Nath (1983). Comparative Religion. Motilal Banarsidass. pp. 78–83. ISBN 978-81-208-0293-3. Archived from the original on 24 December 2016. Retrieved 19 November 2018.
Goldenbaum, Ursula. "Geometrical Method". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 17 February 2022.
History of Chinese Philosophy (2 vols.) by Fung Yu-lan, Derk Bodde
Pre-Islamic Iranian philosophy begins with the work of Zoroaster, one of the first promoters of monotheism and of the dualism between good and evil.[62] This dualistic cosmogony influenced later Iranian developments such as Manichaeism, Mazdakism, and Zurvanism.[63][64]
Chalmers, David (7 May 2013). Why isn't there more progress in philosophy?. Moral Sciences Club (video lecture). Faculty of Philosophy, University of Cambridge. Archived from the original on 12 June 2017. Retrieved 8 May 2020.
^ Doniger, Wendy (2014). On Hinduism. Oxford University Press. p. 46. ISBN 978-0-19-936008-6. Archived from the original on 30 January 2017. Retrieved 25 December 2016.
"Epistemology in Classical Indian Philosophy". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2021.
Kesarcodi-Watson, Ian (1978). "Hindu Metaphysics and Its Philosophies: Śruti and Darsána". International Philosophical Quarterly. 18 (4): 413–432. doi:10.5840/ipq197818440.
Whiteley, Peter M. (1998). "Native American philosophy". Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Taylor & Francis. doi:10.4324/9780415249126-N078-1. ISBN 9780415250696. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020.
^ Buswell, Robert E. Jr.; Lopez, Donald S. Jr. (2013). The Princeton Dictionary of Buddhism. Princeton University Press. pp. 42–47. ISBN 978-1-4008-4805-8. Archived from the original on 17 May 2020. Retrieved 10 November 2018.
In the early 1800s, some colleges and universities in the UK and the US began admitting women, producing more female academics. Nevertheless, U.S. Department of Education reports from the 1990s indicate that few women ended up in philosophy and that philosophy is one of the least gender-proportionate fields in the humanities, with women making up somewhere between 17% and 30% of philosophy faculty according to some studies.[189]
The philosophy of science explores the foundations, methods, history, implications and purpose of science. Many of its subdivisions correspond to specific branches of science. For example, philosophy of biology deals specifically with the metaphysical, epistemological and ethical issues in the biomedical and life sciences.
Deutsch, Eliot S. (2000). "Karma as a 'Convenient Fiction' in the Advaita Vedānta".In Perrett, R. (ed.). Philosophy of Religion: Indian Philosophy. Vol. 4. Routledge. pp. 245–48. ISBN 978-0815336112.
Durant, Will, Story of Philosophy: The Lives and Opinions of the World's Greatest Philosophers, Pocket, 1991, ISBN 978-0-671-73916-4
Edwards, Paul, ed. (1967). The Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Macmillan & Free Press.
JeeLoo Liu. Tian-tai Metaphysics vs. Hua-yan Metaphysics A Comparative Study.
^ Banicki, Konrad (2014). "Philosophy as Therapy: Towards a Conceptual Model". Philosophical Papers. 43 (1): 7–31. doi:10.1080/05568641.2014.901692. S2CID 144901869. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
^ Ebrey, Patricia (2010). The Cambridge Illustrated History of China. New York: Cambridge University Press. p. 42.
Hiltebeitel, Alf (2007). "Hinduism".In Kitagawa, J. (ed.). The Religious Traditions of Asia: Religion, History, and Culture. London: Routledge.
Bullock, Alan, R.B. Woodings, and John Cumming, eds. The Fontana Dictionary of Modern Thinkers, in series, Fontana Original[s]. Hammersmith, Eng.: Fontana Press, 1992 [1983]. xxv, 867 p. ISBN 978-0-00-636965-3
^ Garfield, Jay L; Edelglass, William, eds. (9 June 2011). "Introduction". The Oxford Handbook of World Philosophy. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780195328998.001.0001. ISBN 9780195328998. Archived from the original on 31 March 2019. Retrieved 19 December 2019.
Jaini, Padmanabh S. (1998) [1979]. The Jaina Path of Purification. Motilal Banarsidass. pp. 81–83. ISBN 81-208-1578-5. Archived from the original on 16 February 2020. Retrieved 19 November 2018.
^ JeeLoo Liu. Tian-tai Metaphysics vs. Hua-yan Metaphysics A Comparative Study.
^ Riedel, Tom. "[Review:] Encyclopedia of Aesthetics" (PDF). Art Documentation. 18 (2). Archived from the original (PDF) on 13 February 2006.
^ Cappelen, Herman; Gendler, Tamar Szabó; Hawthorne, John (19 May 2016). "Preface". The Oxford Handbook of Philosophical Methodology. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199668779.013.34. ISBN 978-0-19-966877-9. Archived from the original on 5 December 2020. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ "Why I Left Academia: Philosophy's Homogeneity Needs Rethinking – Hippo Reads". Archived from the original on 9 June 2017.
Buccellati, Giorgio (1981). "Wisdom and Not: The Case of Mesopotamia". Journal of the American Oriental Society. 101 (1): 35–47. doi:10.2307/602163. JSTOR 602163.
Grimm, Stephen R.; Cohoe, Caleb (2021). "What is philosophy as a way of life? Why philosophy as a way of life?". European Journal of Philosophy. 29 (1): 236–251. doi:10.1111/ejop.12562. ISSN 1468-0378. S2CID 225504495. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Frazier, Jessica (2011). The Continuum companion to Hindu studies. London: Continuum. pp. 1–15. ISBN 978-0-8264-9966-0.
Nadler, Steven (2008). A Companion to Early Modern Philosophy. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0-470-99883-0.
^ Collinson, Diane. Fifty Major Philosophers, A Reference Guide. p. 125.
^ Deutsch, Eliot S. (2000). "Karma as a 'Convenient Fiction' in the Advaita Vedānta".In Perrett, R. (ed.). Philosophy of Religion: Indian Philosophy. Vol. 4. Routledge. pp. 245–48. ISBN 978-0815336112.
"Famous Philosophy Majors". Mansfield University Department of Marketing. Archived from the original on 31 March 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.
^ Minor, Robert (1986). Modern Indian Interpreters of the Bhagavad Gita. Albany: State University of New York Press. pp. 74–75, 81. ISBN 0-88706-297-0.
^ Louth, Andrew; Thielicke, Helmut (2014) [1999]. "Relationship to Philosophy | Theology". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020.
"Metaphysics". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Archived from the original on 8 May 2020. Retrieved 8 May 2020.
Jaeger, W. 'On the Origin and Cycle of the Philosophic Ideal of Life.' First published in Sitzungsberichte der preussischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, philosophisch-historishce Klasse, 1928; Eng. Translation in Jaeger's Aristotle, 2nd Ed. Oxford, 1948, 426-61.
Perez, Louis G. (1998). The History of Japan. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press. pp. 57–59. ISBN 978-0-313-30296-1.
^ Janz, Bruce B. (2009). Philosophy in an African Place. Plymouth, UK: Lexington Books. pp. 74–79.
Islamic thought also deeply influenced European intellectual developments, especially through the commentaries of Averroes on Aristotle. The Mongol invasions and the destruction of Baghdad in 1258 are often seen as marking the end of the Golden Age.[66] Several schools of Islamic philosophy continued to flourish after the Golden Age, however, and include currents such as Illuminationist philosophy, Sufi philosophy, and Transcendent theosophy.
^ Kant, Immanuel (2012). Kant: Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals (2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 9781107401068. Ancient Greek philosophy was divided into three branches of knowledge: natural science, ethics, and logic.
"Moral Philosophy". Ethics Unwrapped. Archived from the original on 27 November 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
^ Bartholomew, Craig G.; Goheen, Michael W. (15 October 2013). Christian Philosophy: A Systematic and Narrative Introduction. Baker Academic. ISBN 978-1-4412-4471-0.
^ Cowell and Gough (1882, Translators), The Sarva-Darsana-Samgraha or Review of the Different Systems of Hindu Philosophy by Madhva Acharya, Trubner's Oriental Series.
^ Baggini, Julian; Krauss, Lawrence (8 September 2012). "Philosophy v science: which can answer the big questions of life?". the Guardian. Archived from the original on 14 February 2022. Retrieved 11 February 2022.
"philosophy of common sense". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
Solomon, Robert C. Big Questions: A Short Introduction to Philosophy. ISBN 978-0-534-16708-0
Medieval philosophy (5th–16th centuries) took place during the period following the fall of the Western Roman Empire and was dominated by the rise of Christianity; it hence reflects Judeo-Christian theological concerns while also retaining a continuity with Greco-Roman thought. Problems such as the existence and nature of God, the nature of faith and reason, metaphysics, and the problem of evil were discussed in this period. Some key medieval thinkers include Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, Boethius, Anselm and Roger Bacon. Philosophy for these thinkers was viewed as an aid to theology (ancilla theologiae), and hence they sought to align their philosophy with their interpretation of sacred scripture. This period saw the development of scholasticism, a text critical method developed in medieval universities based on close reading and disputation on key texts. The Renaissance period saw increasing focus on classic Greco-Roman thought and on a robust humanism.[51]
"Influential Women in Philosophy from the Last 10 Years | Academic Influence"
^ Hemacandra (1998). The Lives of the Jain Elders. Oxford University Press. pp. 258–60. ISBN 978-0-19-283227-6. Archived from the original on 23 December 2016. Retrieved 19 November 2018.
Hadot, Pierre (1997). "11. Philosophy as a Way of Life". Philosophy as a Way of Life: Spiritual Exercises From Socrates to Foucault. Blackwell. Archived from the original on 14 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
One of the most notable epistemological debates is between empiricism and rationalism.[133] Empiricism places emphasis on observational evidence via sensory experience as the source of knowledge.[133] Empiricism is associated with a posteriori knowledge, which is obtained through experience (such as scientific knowledge).[133] Rationalism places emphasis on reason as a source of knowledge.[133] Rationalism is associated with a priori knowledge, which is independent of experience (such as logic and mathematics).
How to Think About the Great Ideas: From the Great Books of Western Civilization
"ordinary language analysis". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 28 February 2022.
^ Knobe, Joshua; Nichols, Shaun (2017). "Experimental Philosophy". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 19 March 2020. Retrieved 1 March 2022.
These schools of thought further developed during the Han (206 BCE – 220 CE) and Tang (618–907 CE) eras, forming new philosophical movements like Xuanxue (also called Neo-Taoism), and Neo-Confucianism. Neo-Confucianism was a syncretic philosophy, which incorporated the ideas of different Chinese philosophical traditions, including Buddhism and Taoism. Neo-Confucianism came to dominate the education system during the Song dynasty (960–1297), and its ideas served as the philosophical basis of the imperial exams for the scholar official class. Some of the most important Neo-Confucian thinkers are the Tang scholars Han Yu and Li Ao as well as the Song thinkers Zhou Dunyi (1017–1073) and Zhu Xi (1130–1200). Zhu Xi compiled the Confucian canon, which consists of the Four Books (the Great Learning, the Doctrine of the Mean, the Analects of Confucius, and the Mencius). The Ming scholar Wang Yangming (1472–1529) is a later but important philosopher of this tradition as well.
After the death of the Buddha, various groups began to systematize his main teachings, eventually developing comprehensive philosophical systems termed Abhidharma.[102] Following the Abhidharma schools, Indian Mahayana philosophers such as Nagarjuna and Vasubandhu developed the theories of śūnyatā ('emptiness of all phenomena') and vijñapti-matra ('appearance only'), a form of phenomenology or transcendental idealism. The Dignāga school of pramāṇa ('means of knowledge') promoted a sophisticated form of Buddhist epistemology.
There are also other schools of thought which are often seen as "Hindu", though not necessarily orthodox (since they may accept different scriptures as normative, such as the Shaiva Agamas and Tantras), these include different schools of Shavism such as Pashupata, Shaiva Siddhanta, non-dual tantric Shavism (i.e. Trika, Kaula, etc.).[86]
Appiah, Kwame Anthony. Thinking it Through  – An Introduction to Contemporary Philosophy, 2003, ISBN 978-0-19-513458-2
^ Adler, Mortimer J. (2000). How to Think About the Great Ideas: From the Great Books of Western Civilization. Chicago, Ill.: Open Court. ISBN 978-0-8126-9412-3.
Ethics, also known as moral philosophy, studies what constitutes good and bad conduct, right and wrong values, and good and evil. Its primary investigations include exploring how to live a good life and identifying standards of morality. It also includes investigating whether there is a best way to live or a universal moral standard, and if so, how we come to learn about it. The main branches of ethics are normative ethics, meta-ethics and applied ethics.[129]
^ Webb, Hillary S. (2012). Yanantin and Masintin in the Andean World: Complementary Dualism in Modern Peru.
^ Duran, Jane (2005). Eight women philosophers: theory, politics, and feminism. University of Illinois Press.
Hylton, Peter; Kemp, Gary (2020). "Willard Van Orman Quine: 3. The Analytic-Synthetic Distinction and the Argument Against Logical Empiricism". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 25 February 2021. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
^ "Chinese Religions and Philosophies". Asia Society. Archived from the original on 16 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
van Inwagen, Peter; Sullivan, Meghan (2020). "Metaphysics". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 16 September 2018. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
Bhattacharya, R (2011). Studies on the Carvaka/Lokayata. Anthem. pp. 53, 94, 141–142. ISBN 978-0857284334.
Philosophy of religion deals with questions that involve religion and religious ideas from a philosophically neutral perspective (as opposed to theology which begins from religious convictions).[138] Traditionally, religious questions were not seen as a separate field from philosophy proper, and the idea of a separate field only arose in the 19th century.[v]
Buswell, Robert E. Jr.; Lopez, Donald S. Jr. (2013). The Princeton Dictionary of Buddhism. Princeton University Press. pp. 42–47. ISBN 978-1-4008-4805-8. Archived from the original on 17 May 2020. Retrieved 10 November 2018.
Nagel, Thomas. What Does It All Mean? A Very Short Introduction to Philosophy. ISBN 978-0-19-505292-3
^ a b Assmann, Jan (2004). "Theological Responses to Amarna" (PDF).In Knoppers, Gary N.; Hirsch, Antoine (eds.). Egypt, Israel, and the Ancient Mediterranean World. Studies in Honor of Donald B. Redford. Leiden/Boston. pp. 179–191. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 May 2020.
Basham, A. L. (2009). History and Doctrines of the Ajivikas – a Vanished Indian Religion, Motilal Banarsidass. Chapter 1. ISBN 978-8120812048.
Biletzki, Anat; Matar, Anat (2021). "Ludwig Wittgenstein: 3.7 The Nature of Philosophy". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 8 September 2018. Retrieved 11 February 2022.
Methods of philosophy are ways of conducting philosophical inquiry. They include techniques for arriving at philosophical knowledge and justifying philosophical claims as well as principles used for choosing between competing theories.[146][147][148] A great variety of methods has been employed throughout the history of philosophy. Many of them differ significantly from the methods used in the natural sciences in that they do not use experimental data obtained through measuring equipment.[149][150][151] The choice of one's method usually has important implications both for how philosophical theories are constructed and for the arguments cited for or against them.[147][152][153] This choice is often guided by epistemological considerations about what constitutes philosophical evidence, how much support it offers, and how to acquire it.[149][147][154] Various disagreements on the level of philosophical theories have their source in methodological disagreements and the discovery of new methods has often had important consequences both for how philosophers conduct their research and for what claims they defend.[155][148][147] Some philosophers engage in most of their theorizing using one particular method while others employ a wider range of methods based on which one fits the specific problem investigated best.[150][156]
Pierotti, Raymond (2003). "Communities as both Ecological and Social entities in Native American thought" (PDF). Native American Symposium 5. Durant, OK: Southeastern Oklahoma State University. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 April 2016.
"Chinese Religions and Philosophies". Asia Society. Archived from the original on 16 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
"Communities as both Ecological and Social entities in Native American thought"
Henderson, Leah (2019). "The problem of induction". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 27 March 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
Islamic philosophy is the philosophical work originating in the Islamic tradition and is mostly done in Arabic. It draws from the religion of Islam as well as from Greco-Roman philosophy. After the Muslim conquests, the translation movement (mid-eighth to the late tenth century) resulted in the works of Greek philosophy becoming available in Arabic.[65]
Virtue ethics, which judges actions based on the moral character of the agent who performs them and whether they conform to what an ideally virtuous agent would do.[130]
^ Mill, John Stuart (1863). Utilitarianism. London: Parker, Son, and Bourn, West Strand. p. 51. OCLC 78070085.
^ N.V. Isaeva (1992). Shankara and Indian Philosophy. State University of New York Press. pp. 1–5. ISBN 978-0-7914-1281-7. OCLC 24953669. Archived from the original on 14 January 2020. Retrieved 11 November 2018.
Nadler, Steven (2006). "The geometric method". Spinoza's 'Ethics': An Introduction. Cambridge University Press. pp. 35–51. ISBN 978-0-521-83620-3. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Gombrich, Richard (2006). Theravada Buddhism. Routledge. p. 47. ISBN 978-1-134-90352-8. Archived from the original on 16 August 2019. Retrieved 10 November 2018. All phenomenal existence [in Buddhism] is said to have three interlocking characteristics: impermanence, suffering and lack of soul or essence.
^ a b c d Steup, Matthias; Neta, Ram (2020). "Epistemology". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 20 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
Indigenous-American philosophical thought consists of a wide variety of beliefs and traditions among different American cultures. Among some of U.S. Native American communities, there is a belief in a metaphysical principle called the 'Great Spirit' (Siouan: wakȟáŋ tȟáŋka; Algonquian: gitche manitou). Another widely shared concept was that of orenda ('spiritual power'). According to Whiteley (1998), for the Native Americans, "mind is critically informed by transcendental experience (dreams, visions and so on) as well as by reason."[112] The practices to access these transcendental experiences are termed shamanism. Another feature of the indigenous American worldviews was their extension of ethics to non-human animals and plants.[112][113]In Mesoamerica, Nahua philosophy was an intellectual tradition developed by individuals called tlamatini ('those who know something')[114] and its ideas are preserved in various Aztec codices and fragmentary texts. Some of these philosophers are known by name, such as Nezahualcoyotl, Aquiauhtzin, Xayacamach, Tochihuitzin coyolchiuhqui and Cuauhtencoztli.[115][116] These authors were also poets and some of their work has survived in the original Nahuatl.[115][116]
The "Hindu" and "Orthodox" traditions are often contrasted with the "unorthodox" traditions (nāstika, literally "those who reject"), though this is a label that is not used by the "unorthodox" schools themselves. These traditions reject the Vedas as authoritative and often reject major concepts and ideas that are widely accepted by the orthodox schools (such as Ātman, Brahman, and Īśvara).[87] These unorthodox schools include Jainism (accepts ātman but rejects Īśvara, Vedas and Brahman), Buddhism (rejects all orthodox concepts except rebirth and karma), Cārvāka (materialists who reject even rebirth and karma) and Ājīvika (known for their doctrine of fate).[87][88][89]<[90][91][iii][92][93]
Briggle, Robert; Frodeman, Adam (11 January 2016). "When Philosophy Lost Its Way | The Opinionator". New York Times. Archived from the original on 5 March 2020. Retrieved 25 April 2016.
"philosophy | Definition, Systems, Fields, Schools, & Biographies". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 23 February 2021. Retrieved 29 May 2022.
Plakias, Alexandra (3 February 2015). "Experimental Philosophy". Oxford Handbooks Online. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199935314.013.17. ISBN 978-0-19-993531-4. Archived from the original on 21 January 2022. Retrieved 1 March 2022.
Oizerman, Teodor (1988). The Main Trends in Philosophy. A Theoretical Analysis of the History of Philosophy (PDF). translated by H. Campbell Creighton, M.A., Oxon (2nd ed.). Moscow: Progress Publishers. ISBN 978-5-01-000506-1. Archived from the original (DjVu, etc.) on 6 March 2012. Retrieved 20 January 2011. First published in Russian as Главные философские направления.
During the 20th century, the Kyoto School, an influential and unique Japanese philosophical school, developed from Western phenomenology and Medieval Japanese Buddhist philosophy such as that of Dogen.
^ Sextus Empiricus. Against the Logicians. Book I, Section 16.
Huang, Siu-chi (1999). Essentials of Neo-Confucianism: Eight Major Philosophers of the Song and Ming Periods. Greenwood Publishing Group. ISBN 978-0-313-26449-8.
^ Sellars, Wilfrid (1963). Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind (PDF). Routledge and Kegan Paul Ltd. pp. 1, 40. Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 March 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
^ Mittal, Sushil; Thursby, Gene (2017). Religions of India: An Introduction. Taylor & Francis. pp. 3–5, 15–18, 53–55, 63–67, 85–88, 93–98, 107–15. ISBN 978-1-134-79193-4. Archived from the original on 17 December 2019. Retrieved 11 November 2018.
^ a b Adames, Hector Y.; Chavez-Dueñas, Nayeli Y. (2016). Cultural Foundations and Interventions in Latino/a Mental Health: History, Theory and within Group Differences. Routledge. pp. 20–21.
Keddie, Nikki R. (28 October 2013). Iran: Religion, Politics and Society: Collected Essays. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-136-28041-2.
Philosophy before the Greeks. The Pursuit of Truth in Ancient Babylonia. Princeton University Press. 2015. ISBN 978-0691157184.
Philosophical skepticism, which raises doubts about some or all claims to knowledge, has been a topic of interest throughout the history of philosophy. It arose early in Pre-Socratic philosophy and became formalized with Pyrrho, the founder of the earliest Western school of philosophical skepticism. It features prominently in the works of modern philosophers René Descartes and David Hume and has remained a central topic in contemporary epistemological debates.[132]
One central debate in contemporary epistemology is about the conditions required for a belief to constitute knowledge, which might include truth and justification. This debate was largely the result of attempts to solve the Gettier problem.[132] Another common subject of contemporary debates is the regress problem, which occurs when trying to offer proof or justification for any belief, statement, or proposition. The problem is that whatever the source of justification may be, that source must either be without justification (in which case it must be treated as an arbitrary foundation for belief), or it must have some further justification (in which case justification must either be the result of circular reasoning, as in coherentism, or the result of an infinite regress, as in infinitism).[132]
Bunnin, Nicholas; Tsui-James, Eric, eds. (2008). The Blackwell Companion to Philosophy. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0-470-99787-1.
Schmitt, C.B.; Skinner, Quentin, eds. (1988). The Cambridge History of Renaissance Philosophy. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-39748-3.
Malachowski, Alan (1 September 1993). "Methodological scepticism, metaphysics and meaning". International Journal of Philosophical Studies. 1 (2): 302–312. doi:10.1080/09672559308570774. ISSN 0967-2559. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Janz, Bruce B. (2009). Philosophy in an African Place. Plymouth, UK: Lexington Books. pp. 74–79.
"Why I Left Academia: Philosophy's Homogeneity Needs Rethinking – Hippo Reads"
Frank, Daniel; Leaman, Oliver (20 October 2005). History of Jewish Philosophy. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-134-89435-2.
Some of the earliest surviving Indian philosophical texts are the Upanishads of the later Vedic period (1000–500 BCE), which are considered to preserve the ideas of Brahmanism. Indian philosophical traditions are commonly grouped according to their relationship to the Vedas and the ideas contained in them. Jainism and Buddhism originated at the end of the Vedic period, while the various traditions grouped under Hinduism mostly emerged after the Vedic period as independent traditions. Hindus generally classify Indian philosophical traditions as either orthodox (āstika) or heterodox (nāstika) depending on whether they accept the authority of the Vedas and the theories of brahman and ātman found therein.[75][76]
Metaphysics is the study of the most general features of reality, such as existence, time, objects and their properties, wholes and their parts, events, processes and causation and the relationship between mind and body.[134] Metaphysics includes cosmology, the study of the world in its entirety and ontology, the study of being, along with the philosophy of space and time.
The regions of the Fertile Crescent, Iran and Arabia are home to the earliest known philosophical wisdom literature.[citation needed]
^ a b c Joll, Nicholas. "Metaphilosophy". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 15 May 2019. Retrieved 1 February 2022.
^ Brown, James Robert; Fehige, Yiftach (2019). "Thought Experiments". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 21 November 2017. Retrieved 29 October 2021.
McGinn, Colin (1993). Problems in Philosophy: The Limits of Inquiry (1st ed.). Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN 978-1-55786-475-8.
^ Cropper, Carol Marie (26 December 1997). "Philosophers Find the Degree Pays Off in Life And in Work". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 28 January 2017. Retrieved 2 May 2016.
Consequentialism, which judges actions based on their consequences.[130] One such view is utilitarianism, which judges actions based on the net happiness (or pleasure) and/or lack of suffering (or pain) that they produce.
Oizerman, Teodor (1973). Problems of the History of Philosophy. translated from Russian by Robert Daglish (1st ed.). Moscow: Progress Publishers. Archived from the original on 6 July 2011. Retrieved 20 January 2011. First published in Russian as Проблемы историко-философской науки.
Brown, James Robert; Fehige, Yiftach (2019). "Thought Experiments". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 21 November 2017. Retrieved 29 October 2021.
^ Briggle, Robert; Frodeman, Adam (11 January 2016). "When Philosophy Lost Its Way | The Opinionator". New York Times. Archived from the original on 5 March 2020. Retrieved 25 April 2016.
^ Lochtefeld, James (2002). "Ajivika". The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Hinduism, Vol. 1: A–M. Rosen Publishing. p. 22. ISBN 978-0823931798.
^ Gombrich, Richard (2006). Theravada Buddhism. Routledge. p. 47. ISBN 978-1-134-90352-8. Archived from the original on 16 August 2019. Retrieved 10 November 2018. All phenomenal existence [in Buddhism] is said to have three interlocking characteristics: impermanence, suffering and lack of soul or essence.
Kenny, Anthony (31 May 2007). Medieval Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy, Volume 2. OUP Oxford. ISBN 978-0-19-162253-3.
The dominant Buddhist philosophical traditions in East Asian nations are mainly based on Indian Mahayana Buddhism. The philosophy of the Theravada school is dominant in Southeast Asian countries like Sri Lanka, Burma and Thailand.
Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich; Brown, Robert F. (2006). Lectures on the History of Philosophy: Greek philosophy. Clarendon Press. p. 33. ISBN 978-0-19-927906-7.
^ Del Soldato, Eva (2020). "Natural Philosophy in the Renaissance". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 27 November 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
The schools which align themselves with the thought of the Upanishads, the so-called "orthodox" or "Hindu" traditions, are often classified into six darśanas or philosophies:Sānkhya, Yoga, Nyāya, Vaisheshika, Mimāmsā and Vedānta.[77]
Gutas, Dimitri (1998). Greek Thought, Arabic Culture: The Graeco-Arabic Translation Movement in Baghdad and Early Abbasid Society (2nd-4th/8th-10th centuries). Routledge. pp. 1–26.
McIvor, David W. "Weltanschauung". International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences. Archived from the original on 20 March 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
^ "Epistemology". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Archived from the original on 8 May 2020. Retrieved 8 May 2020.
^ Jaeger, W. 'On the Origin and Cycle of the Philosophic Ideal of Life.' First published in Sitzungsberichte der preussischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, philosophisch-historishce Klasse, 1928; Eng. Translation in Jaeger's Aristotle, 2nd Ed. Oxford, 1948, 426-61.
Duran, Jane (2005). Eight women philosophers: theory, politics, and feminism. University of Illinois Press.
McDermid, Douglas. "Pragmatism". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 23 May 2019. Retrieved 22 February 2022.
^ Sedlmeier, Peter; Srinivas, Kunchapudi (2016). "How do Theories of Cognition and Consciousness in Ancient Indian Thought Systems Relate to Current Western Theorizing and Research?". Frontiers in Psychology. 7: 343. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2016.00343. PMC 4791389. PMID 27014150.
^ Brewer, Talbot (2011). The Retrieval of Ethics (1st ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-969222-4.
Whitehead, Alfred North (11 May 2010). Process and Reality. Simon & Schuster. p. 39. ISBN 978-1-4391-1836-8.
Plantinga, Alvin (2014).Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Religion and Science (Spring 2014 ed.). Archived from the original on 18 March 2019. Retrieved 25 April 2016.
Tiwari, Kedar Nath (1983). Comparative Religion. Motilal Banarsidass. pp. 78–83. ISBN 978-81-208-0293-3. Archived from the original on 24 December 2016. Retrieved 19 November 2018.
N.V. Isaeva (1992). Shankara and Indian Philosophy. State University of New York Press. pp. 1–5. ISBN 978-0-7914-1281-7. OCLC 24953669. Archived from the original on 14 January 2020. Retrieved 11 November 2018.
Wynne, Alexander (2011). "The ātman and its negation". Journal of the International Association of Buddhist Studies. 33 (1–2): 103–05. The denial that a human being possesses a 'self' or 'soul' is probably the most famous Buddhist teaching. It is certainly its most distinct, as has been pointed out by G.P. Malalasekera: 'In its denial of any real permanent Soul or Self, Buddhism stands alone.' A similar modern Sinhalese perspective has been expressed by Walpola Rahula: 'Buddhism stands unique in the history of human thought in denying the existence of such a Soul, Self or Ātman.' The 'no Self' or 'no soul' doctrine (Sanskrit: anātman; Pali: anattan) is particularly notable for its widespread acceptance and historical endurance. It was a standard belief of virtually all the ancient schools of Indian Buddhism (the notable exception being the Pudgalavādins), and has persisted without change into the modern era.… [B]oth views are mirrored by the modern Theravādin perspective of Mahasi Sayadaw that 'there is no person or soul' and the modern Mahāyāna view of the fourteenth Dalai Lama that '[t]he Buddha taught that…our belief in an independent self is the root cause of all suffering.'
^ Frazier, Jessica (2011). The Continuum companion to Hindu studies. London: Continuum. pp. 1–15. ISBN 978-0-8264-9966-0.
The Rise of Modern Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy, Volume 3
Wheeler, Michael (2020). "Martin Heidegger". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 6 February 2022. Retrieved 11 February 2022.
Because ignorance to the true nature of things is considered one of the roots of suffering (dukkha), Buddhist philosophy is concerned with epistemology, metaphysics, ethics and psychology. Buddhist philosophical texts must also be understood within the context of meditative practices which are supposed to bring about certain cognitive shifts.[100] Key innovative concepts include the Four Noble Truths as an analysis of dukkha, anicca (impermanence), and anatta (non-self).[iv][101]
5Applied and professional philosophy											Toggle Applied and professional philosophy subsection																					5.1Women in philosophy
Cicero, Marcus Tullius (1877). Tusculan Disputations. New York: Harper & Brothers. p. 166. Archived from the original on 18 May 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2021. From whence all who occupied themselves in the contemplation of nature were both considered and called wise men; and that name of theirs continued to the age of Pythagoras, who is reported to have gone to Phlius, as we find it stated by Heraclides Ponticus, a very learned man, and a pupil of Plato, and to have discoursed very learnedly and copiously on certain subjects with Leon, prince of the Phliasii; and when Leon, admiring his ingenuity and eloquence, asked him what art he particularly professed, his answer was, that he was acquainted with no art, but that he was a philosopher. Leon, surprised at the novelty of the name, inquired what he meant by the name of philosopher, and in what philosophers differed from other men; on which Pythagoras replied, "That the life of man seemed to him to resemble those games which were celebrated with the greatest possible variety of sports and the general concourse of all Greece. For as in those games there were some persons whose object was glory and the honor of a crown, to be attained by the performance of bodily exercises, so others were led thither by the gain of buying and selling, and mere views of profit; but there was likewise one class of persons, and they were by far the best, whose aim was neither applause nor profit, but who came merely as spectators through curiosity, to observe what was done, and to see in what manner things were carried on there. And thus, said he, we come from another life and nature unto this one, just as men come out of some other city, to some much frequented mart; some being slaves to glory, others to money; and there are some few who, taking no account of anything else, earnestly look into the nature of things; and these men call themselves studious of wisdom, that is, philosophers: and as there it is the most reputable occupation of all to be a looker-on without making any acquisition, so in life, the contemplating things, and acquainting one's self with them, greatly exceeds every other pursuit of life."
Bullock, Alan, and Oliver Stallybrass, jt. eds. The Harper Dictionary of Modern Thought. New York: Harper & Row, 1977. xix, 684 p. N.B.: First published in England under the title, "The Fontana Dictionary of Modern Thought". ISBN 978-0-06-010578-5
"Major Ethical Perspectives". saylordotorg.github.io. Archived from the original on 21 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
Natural philosophy (i.e. physics, from Greek: ta physika, lit. 'things having to do with physis [nature]') was the study of the constitution and processes of transformation in the physical world.[142]
Yeakel, John A. (Fall 1983). "Accountant-Historians of the Incas" (PDF). Accounting Historians Journal. 10 (2): 39–51. doi:10.2308/0148-4184.10.2.39. Archived (PDF) from the original on 12 November 2021.
"philosophy (n.)". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 2 July 2017. Retrieved 22 August 2010.
^ "Epistemology". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 10 July 2019. Retrieved 22 June 2020.
Bilimoria, Puruṣottama (2000). "Hindu Doubts About God: Towards a Mīmāṃsā Deconstruction".In Perrett, Roy W. (ed.). Indian Philosophy. London: Routledge. p. 88. ISBN 978-1135703226.
^ a b c d Maffie, James (March 2002). "Why Care about Nezahualcoyotl? Veritism and Nahua Philosophy". Philosophy of the Social Sciences. Sage Publications. 32 (1): 71–91. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.878.7615. doi:10.1177/004839310203200104. S2CID 144901245. Archived from the original on 18 November 2021.
^ "Why Study Philosophy? An Unofficial 'Daily Nous' Affiliate". WhyStudyPhilosophy.com. Archived from the original on 29 April 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.
The English Philosophers from Bacon to Mill by Edwin Arthur
Lindberg, David C. (2007). "Science before the Greeks". The beginnings of Western science: the European Scientific tradition in philosophical, religious, and institutional context (Second ed.). Chicago, Illinois: University of Chicago Press. pp. 1–27. ISBN 978-0-226-48205-7.
^ Weinberg, Justin (8 December 2014). "Famous Philosophy Majors Poster (updated with new link)". Daily Nous. Archived from the original on 14 May 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.
Young, William A. (2005). The World's Religions: Worldviews and Contemporary Issues. Pearson Prentice Hall. pp. 61–64, 78–79. ISBN 978-0-13-183010-3. Archived from the original on 17 December 2019. Retrieved 10 November 2018.
^ Sharma, Arvind (1990). A Hindu Perspective on the Philosophy of Religion. Palgrave Macmillan. pp. 1–2. ISBN 978-1-349-20797-8. Archived from the original on 12 January 2020. Retrieved 11 November 2018. The attitude towards the existence of God varies within the Hindu religious tradition. This may not be entirely unexpected given the tolerance for doctrinal diversity for which the tradition is known. Thus of the six orthodox systems of Hindu philosophy, only three address the question in some detail. These are the schools of thought known as Nyaya, Yoga and the theistic forms of Vedanta.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Philosophy" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Chan, Wing-tsit (1963). A Source Book in Chinese Philosophy. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-01964-2.
Aristotle (1941).Richard McKeon (ed.). The Basic Works of Aristotle. New York: Random House.
^ a b c d e f g Sandkühler, Hans Jörg (2010). "Philosophiebegriffe". Enzyklopädie Philosophie. Meiner. Archived from the original on 20 March 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
"Salary, Promotion, and Tenure Status of Minority and Women Faculty in U.S. Colleges and Universities". National Center for Education Statistics, Statistical Analysis Report, March 2000; U.S. Department of Education, Office of Education Research and Improvement, Report # NCES 2000–173; 1993 National Study of Postsecondary Faculty (NSOPF:93). See also "Characteristics and Attitudes of Instructional Faculty and Staff in the Humanities". National Center For Education Statistics, E.D. Tabs, July 1997. U.S. Department of Education, Office of Education Research and Improvement, Report # NCES 97-973;1993 National Study of Postsecondary Faculty (NSOPF-93).
^ O'Brien, Barbara (25 June 2019). "How Buddhism Came to China: A History of the First Thousand Years". Learn Religions. Archived from the original on 27 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Quinton, Anthony. The Ethics of Philosophical Practice. p. 666. Philosophy is rationally critical thinking, of a more or less systematic kind about the general nature of the world (metaphysics or theory of existence), the justification of belief (epistemology or theory of knowledge), and the conduct of life (ethics or theory of value). Each of the three elements in this list has a non-philosophical counterpart, from which it is distinguished by its explicitly rational and critical way of proceeding and by its systematic nature. Everyone has some general conception of the nature of the world in which they live and of their place in it. Metaphysics replaces the unargued assumptions embodied in such a conception with a rational and organized body of beliefs about the world as a whole. Everyone has occasion to doubt and question beliefs, their own or those of others, with more or less success and without any theory of what they are doing. Epistemology seeks by argument to make explicit the rules of correct belief formation. Everyone governs their conduct by directing it to desired or valued ends. Ethics, or moral philosophy, in its most inclusive sense, seeks to articulate, in rationally systematic form, the rules or principles involved. in Honderich 1995.
^ Henderson, Leah (2019). "The problem of induction". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 27 March 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
Philosophy (from Greek: φιλοσοφία, philosophia, 'love of wisdom')[1][2] is the systematized study of general and fundamental questions, such as those about existence, reason, knowledge, values, mind, and language.[3][4][5] [6][7] Some sources claim the term was coined by Pythagoras (c. 570 – c. 495 BCE),[8][9] although this theory is disputed by some.[10][11][12] Philosophical methods include questioning, critical discussion, rational argument, and systematic presentation.[13][14][i]
Carnap, Rudolf (1953). "Inductive Logic and Science". Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 80 (3): 189–197. doi:10.2307/20023651. JSTOR 20023651.
^ a b c Nuttall, Jon (3 July 2013). "1. The Nature of Philosophy". An Introduction to Philosophy. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0-7456-6807-9. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
^ "Feminist History of Philosophy". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2021.
The definition of philosophy is: "1. orig., love of, or the search for, wisdom or knowledge 2. theory or logical analysis of the principles underlying conduct, thought, knowledge, and the nature of the universe". Webster's New World Dictionary (Second College ed.).
Chinese culture was highly influential on the traditions of other East Asian states, and its philosophy directly influenced Korean philosophy, Vietnamese philosophy and Japanese philosophy.[109] During later Chinese dynasties like the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644), as well as in the Korean Joseon dynasty (1392–1897), a resurgent Neo-Confucianism led by thinkers such as Wang Yangming (1472–1529) became the dominant school of thought and was promoted by the imperial state. In Japan, the Tokugawa shogunate (1603–1867) was also strongly influenced by Confucian philosophy.[110] Confucianism continues to influence the ideas and worldview of the nations of the Chinese cultural sphere today.
^ Ingarden, Roman (1975). "The Concept of Philosophy as Rigorous Science". On the Motives which led Husserl to Transcendental Idealism. Phaenomenologica. Vol. 64. Springer Netherlands. pp. 8–11. doi:10.1007/978-94-010-1689-6_3. ISBN 978-94-010-1689-6. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
The Science Delusion: Asking the Big Questions in a Culture of Easy Answers
Major European Quantum Physicists, including Erwin Schrödinger, Werner Heisenberg, Albert Einstein, & Niels Bohr credit the Vedas with giving them the ideas for their experiments. [98]
Baldwin, Thomas, ed. (2003). The Cambridge History of Philosophy 1870–1945. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-59104-1.
^ Schroeder, Mark (2021). "Value Theory".In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2021 ed.). Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 31 March 2021. Retrieved 27 March 2021. In its broadest sense, 'value theory' is a catch-all label used to encompass all branches of moral philosophy, social and political philosophy, aesthetics, and sometimes feminist philosophy and the philosophy of religion – whatever areas of philosophy are deemed to encompass some 'evaluative' aspect.
^ Shapin, Steven (1998). The Scientific Revolution (1st ed.). University Of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-75021-7.
Najovits, Simson (2004). Egypt, the Trunk of the Tree, A Modern Survey of and Ancient Land, Vol. II. New York: Algora Publishing. p. 131. ISBN 978-0875862569.
Philosophy as a Way of Life: Spiritual Exercises From Socrates to Foucault
^ Schuessler, Jennifer (4 October 2016). "Canadian Philosopher Wins $1 Million Prize". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 15 December 2017. Retrieved 4 October 2016.
Lee, Joe and Powell, Jim. Eastern Philosophy For Beginners. ISBN 978-0-86316-282-4
"The English word "philosophy" is first attested to c. 1300, meaning "knowledge, body of knowledge".Harper, Douglas (2020). "philosophy (n.)". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 2 July 2017. Retrieved 8 May 2020.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k
Weinberg, Justin (8 December 2014). "Famous Philosophy Majors Poster (updated with new link)". Daily Nous. Archived from the original on 14 May 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.
^ McGinn, Colin (1993). Problems in Philosophy: The Limits of Inquiry (1st ed.). Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN 978-1-55786-475-8.
Westerhoff, Jan (2018). The Golden Age of Indian Buddhist Philosophy. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
History of Italian Philosophy (2 vols.) by Eugenio Garin. Translated from Italian and Edited by Giorgio Pinton. Introduction by Leon Pompa.
Tarnas, Richard. The Passion of the Western Mind: Understanding the Ideas That Have Shaped Our World View. ISBN 978-0-345-36809-6
A major point of debate is between realism, which holds that there are entities that exist independently of their mental perception, and idealism, which holds that reality is mentally constructed or otherwise immaterial. Metaphysics deals with the topic of identity. Essence is the set of attributes that make an object what it fundamentally is and without which it loses its identity, while accident is a property that the object has, without which the object can still retain its identity. Particulars are objects that are said to exist in space and time, as opposed to abstract objects, such as numbers, and universals, which are properties held by multiple particulars, such as redness or a gender. The type of existence, if any, of universals and abstract objects is an issue of debate.
^ a b c d Sandkühler, Hans Jörg, ed. (2010). "Methode/Methodologie". Enzyklopädie Philosophie. Meiner. Archived from the original on 20 March 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
The various traditions of Gnosticism, which were influenced by both Greek and Abrahamic currents, originated around the first century and emphasized spiritual knowledge (gnosis).[61]
This division is not obsolete, but has changed: natural philosophy has split into the various natural sciences, especially physics, astronomy, chemistry, biology, and cosmology; moral philosophy has birthed the social sciences, while still including value theory (e.g. ethics, aesthetics, political philosophy, etc.); and metaphysical philosophy has given way to formal sciences such as logic, mathematics and philosophy of science, while still including epistemology, cosmology, etc. For example, Newton's Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy (1687), since classified as a book of physics, uses the term natural philosophy as it was understood at the time, encompassing disciplines such as astronomy, medicine and physics that later became associated with the sciences.[16]
Instructions for Practical Living and Other Neo-Confucian Writings by Wang Yang-ming by Chan, Wing-tsit
"Feminist History of Philosophy". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2021.
"Why Study Philosophy? An Unofficial 'Daily Nous' Affiliate". WhyStudyPhilosophy.com. Archived from the original on 29 April 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.
"Intuitionism (ethics)". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 28 February 2022.
^ Alina, Bradford (July 2017). "Deductive Reasoning vs. Inductive Reasoning". Live Science. Archived from the original on 28 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
Dever, Josh (19 May 2016). "What is Philosophical Methodology?".In Cappelen, Herman; Gendler, Tamar Szabó; Hawthorne, John (eds.). The Oxford Handbook of Philosophical Methodology. pp. 3–24. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199668779.013.34. ISBN 978-0-19-966877-9. Archived from the original on 5 December 2020. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Jayatilleke, K. N. (2010). Early Buddhist Theory of Knowledge. pp. 246–49, note 385 onwards. ISBN 978-8120806191.
^ "philosophy of common sense". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
"Where Can Philosophy Take Me? | Philosophy". University of Kentucky College of Arts & Sciences. Archived from the original on 10 April 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.
^ REYNOLDS, JACK (4 August 2010). "Common Sense and Philosophical Methodology: Some Metaphilosophical Reflections on Analytic Philosophy and Deleuze". The Philosophical Forum. 41 (3): 231–258. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9191.2010.00361.x. hdl:10536/DRO/DU:30061043. ISSN 0031-806X. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ de Blois, François (2000). "Dualism in Iranian and Christian Traditions". Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society. 10 (1): 1–19. doi:10.1017/S1356186300011913. ISSN 1356-1863. JSTOR 25187928. S2CID 162835432.
Popkin, R.H. (1999). The Columbia History of Western Philosophy. New York, Columbia University Press.
The Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy edited by Edward Craig (an abridgement)
^ McIvor, David W. "Weltanschauung". International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences. Archived from the original on 20 March 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Dreyfus, Georges B. J. (1997). Recognizing Reality: Dharmakirti's Philosophy and Its Tibetan Interpretations (Suny Series in Buddhist Studies). p. 22.
Many other definitions of philosophy do not clearly fall into any of the aforementioned categories. An early approach already found in ancient Greek and Roman philosophy is that philosophy is the spiritual practice of developing one's reasoning ability.[43][44] This practice is an expression of the philosopher's love of wisdom and has the aim of improving one's well-being by leading a reflective life.[45] A closely related approach identifies the development and articulation of worldviews as the principal task of philosophy, i.e. to express how things on the grand scale hang together and which practical stance we should take towards them.[27][23][46] Another definition characterizes philosophy as thinking about thinking in order to emphasize its reflective nature.[27][33]
^ Olson, Carl (2007). The Many Colors of Hinduism: A Thematic-historical Introduction. Rutgers University Press. pp. 101–19. ISBN 978-0813540689.
^ Parker-Ryan, Sally. "Ordinary Language Philosophy". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 28 February 2022.
Leonardo Esteban Figueroa Helland (2012). Indigenous Philosophy and World Politics: Cosmopolitical Contributions from across the Americas (PDF) (PhD dissertation). Arizona State University. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 November 2021.
Piché, Claude (2016). "Kant on the "Conditions of the Possibility" of Experience". Transcendental Inquiry: Its History, Methods and Critiques. Springer International Publishing. pp. 1–20. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-40715-9_1. hdl:1866/21324. ISBN 978-3-319-40715-9. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Louth, Andrew; Thielicke, Helmut (2014) [1999]. "Relationship to Philosophy | Theology". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020.
^ a b c Maffie, James (2013). "Pre-Columbian Philosophies". A Companion to Latin American Philosophy. By Nuccetelli, Susana; Schutte, Ofelia; Bueno, Otávio. Wiley Blackwell.
^ a b c d Overgaard, Søren; D’Oro, Giuseppina (2017). "Introduction". The Cambridge Companion to Philosophical Methodology. Cambridge University Press. pp. 1–10. ISBN 978-1-107-54736-0. Archived from the original on 1 May 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Alina, Bradford (July 2017). "Deductive Reasoning vs. Inductive Reasoning". Live Science. Archived from the original on 28 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.
^ Kesarcodi-Watson, Ian (1978). "Hindu Metaphysics and Its Philosophies: Śruti and Darsána". International Philosophical Quarterly. 18 (4): 413–432. doi:10.5840/ipq197818440.
White, Curtis (2014). The Science Delusion: Asking the Big Questions in a Culture of Easy Answers. Brooklyn, NY: Melville House. ISBN 9781612193908.
While our knowledge of the ancient era begins with Thales in the 6th century BCE, little is known about the philosophers who came before Socrates (commonly known as the pre-Socratics). The ancient era was dominated by Greek philosophical schools. Most notable among the schools influenced by Socrates' teachings were Plato, who founded the Platonic Academy, and his student Aristotle, who founded the Peripatetic school.[49] Other ancient philosophical traditions influenced by Socrates included Cynicism, Cyrenaicism, Stoicism, and Academic Skepticism. Two other traditions were influenced by Socrates' contemporary, Democritus: Pyrrhonism and Epicureanism. Important topics covered by the Greeks included metaphysics (with competing theories such as atomism and monism), cosmology, the nature of the well-lived life (eudaimonia), the possibility of knowledge, and the nature of reason (logos). With the rise of the Roman empire, Greek philosophy was increasingly discussed in Latin by Romans such as Cicero and Seneca (see Roman philosophy).[50]
Daniels, Norman (2020). "Reflective Equilibrium". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 22 February 2022. Retrieved 28 February 2022.
^ a b Eder, Anna-Maria A.; Lawler, Insa; van Riel, Raphael (1 March 2020). "Philosophical methods under scrutiny: introduction to the special issue philosophical methods". Synthese. 197 (3): 915–923. doi:10.1007/s11229-018-02051-2. ISSN 1573-0964. S2CID 54631297.
^ "Salary, Promotion, and Tenure Status of Minority and Women Faculty in U.S. Colleges and Universities". National Center for Education Statistics, Statistical Analysis Report, March 2000; U.S. Department of Education, Office of Education Research and Improvement, Report # NCES 2000–173; 1993 National Study of Postsecondary Faculty (NSOPF:93). See also "Characteristics and Attitudes of Instructional Faculty and Staff in the Humanities". National Center For Education Statistics, E.D. Tabs, July 1997. U.S. Department of Education, Office of Education Research and Improvement, Report # NCES 97-973;1993 National Study of Postsecondary Faculty (NSOPF-93).
Banicki, Konrad (2014). "Philosophy as Therapy: Towards a Conceptual Model". Philosophical Papers. 43 (1): 7–31. doi:10.1080/05568641.2014.901692. S2CID 144901869. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
Audi, Robert (2006). "Philosophy". Macmillan Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2nd Edition. Macmillan. Archived from the original on 14 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
^ Piché, Claude (2016). "Kant on the "Conditions of the Possibility" of Experience". Transcendental Inquiry: Its History, Methods and Critiques. Springer International Publishing. pp. 1–20. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-40715-9_1. hdl:1866/21324. ISBN 978-3-319-40715-9. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022. Retrieved 15 February 2022.
^ Charles L. Griswold Jr. (2010). Platonic Writings/Platonic Readings. Penn State Press. pp. 144–146. ISBN 978-0271044811. Archived from the original on 1 July 2020. Retrieved 26 July 2021.
^ Zangwill, Nick (2019) [2003]. "Aesthetic Judgment". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (revised ed.). Archived from the original on 2 August 2019. Retrieved 9 May 2020.
^ Daniels, Norman (2020). "Reflective Equilibrium". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 22 February 2022. Retrieved 28 February 2022.
^ Malachowski, Alan (1 September 1993). "Methodological scepticism, metaphysics and meaning". International Journal of Philosophical Studies. 1 (2): 302–312. doi:10.1080/09672559308570774. ISSN 0967-2559. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Today, major subfields of academic philosophy include metaphysics, which is concerned with the fundamental nature of existence and reality; epistemology, which studies the nature of knowledge and belief; ethics, which is concerned with moral value; and logic, which studies the rules of inference that allow one to derive conclusions from true premises.[20][21] Other notable subfields include philosophy of religion, philosophy of science, political philosophy, aesthetics, philosophy of language, and philosophy of mind.
Bawden, H. Heath (1904). "What is Pragmatism?". The Journal of Philosophy, Psychology and Scientific Methods. 1 (16): 421–427. doi:10.2307/2011902. ISSN 0160-9335. JSTOR 2011902. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
"Why I Left Academia: Philosophy's Homogeneity Needs Rethinking – Hippo Reads". Archived from the original on 9 June 2017.
African philosophy is philosophy produced by African people, philosophy that presents African worldviews, ideas and themes, or philosophy that uses distinct African philosophical methods. Modern African thought has been occupied with Ethnophilosophy, that is, defining the very meaning of African philosophy and its unique characteristics and what it means to be African.[111]
^ "Epistemology in Classical Indian Philosophy". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2021.
^ Cooper, William W.; Yue, Piyu (2008). Challenges of the Muslim world: present, future and past. Emerald Group Publishing. ISBN 978-0-444-53243-5.
Companion Encyclopedia of Asian Philosophy by Brian Carr, Indira Mahalingam
Grimes, John A. (January 1996). A Concise Dictionary of Indian Philosophy: Sanskrit Terms Defined in English. Albany: State University of New York Press. p. 238. ISBN 978-0791430675.
A Concise Dictionary of Indian Philosophy: Sanskrit Terms Defined in English by John A. Grimes
^ Jayatilleke, K. N. (2010). Early Buddhist Theory of Knowledge. pp. 246–49, note 385 onwards. ISBN 978-8120806191.
"aesthetic". Lexico. Oxford University Press and Dictionary.com. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020.
^ Frank, Daniel; Leaman, Oliver (20 October 2005). History of Jewish Philosophy. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-134-89435-2.
Schuessler, Jennifer (4 October 2016). "Canadian Philosopher Wins $1 Million Prize". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 15 December 2017. Retrieved 4 October 2016.
The three main views in ethics about what constitute moral actions are:[129]
^ Basham, A. L. (2009). History and Doctrines of the Ajivikas – a Vanished Indian Religion, Motilal Banarsidass. Chapter 1. ISBN 978-8120812048.
The history of bioecological systems theory is divided into two periods. The first period resulted in the publication of Bronfenbrenner's theory of ecological systems theory, titled The Ecology of Human Development, in 1979.[7] Bronfenbrenner described the second period as a time of criticism and evaluation of his original work.[8]
"Internet Use and Child Development: Validation of the Ecological Techno-Subsystem"
This page was last edited on 28 July 2022, at 04:59 (UTC).
Bronfenbrenner set up a contrast to the traditional “confirmatory” approach to hypothesis testing (in which research is done to “confirm” that a hypothesis is correct or incorrect) when specifying the types of research needed to support the bioecological model of development.[11]In Bronfenbrenner's view, the dynamic nature of the model calls for “primarily generative” research designs that explore interactions between proximal processes (see Proposition 1) and the developing person, environment, time, and developmental outcome (Proposition 2).Bronfenbrenner called this type of research the “discovery mode” of developmental science.
However, where prior research was ignoring context, Bronfenbrenner felt current research focused too much on context and ignored development. In his justification for a new theory, Bronfenbrenner wrote he was not pleased with the direction of research in the mid 1980s and that he felt there were other realms of development that were overlooked.[2]
Bronfenbrenner further developed the model by adding the chronosystem, which refers to how the person and environments change over time. He also placed a greater emphasis on processes and the role of the biological person. The Process–Person–Context–Time Model (PPCT) has since become the bedrock of the bioecological model. PPCT includes four concepts. The interactions between the concepts form the basis for the theory.[2]
^ a b c d e f g Bronfenbrenner, U.; Morris, P.A. (1998). The ecology of developmental processes. Handbook of Child Psychology. Vol. 1. New York. pp. 993–1023. ISBN 0-471-05527-1.
Bronfenbrenner was also influenced by his colleague, Stephen J. Ceci, with whom he co-authored the article “Nature-nurture reconceptualized in developmental perspective: A bioecological theory” in 1994.[1] Ceci is a developmental psychologist who redefined modern developmental psychology's approach to intellectual development. He focused on predicting a pattern of associations among ecological, genetic, and cognitive variables as a function of proximal processes. Together, Bronfenbrenner and Ceci published the beginnings of the bioecological model and made it an accessible framework to use in understanding developmental processes.[1]
Bronfenbrenner, U. (2005). Making human beings human: Bioecological perspectives on human development. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications Ltd. pp. 3–15. ISBN 0-7619-2711-5.
"Ecological systems theory" was the initial name of Bronfenbrenner's model. Bronfenbrenner saw the necessity to comprehend how people evolve within their settings through the use of this framework. Bronfenbrenner identified five ecological systems in order to conceptualize environmental contexts:
^ Johnson, Genevieve Marie; Puplampu, Korbla P. (2008). "Internet use during childhood and the ecological techno-subsystem". Canadian Journal of Learning and Technology. doi:10.21432/T2CP4T. ISSN 1499-6685.
3Exosystem: The exosystem includes components of the microsystem's structural elements but does not directly influence people. For instance, a child may be impacted by family financial issues, parental job loss, and other situations, but they do not directly effect the child
Bronfenbrenner informally discussed new ideas concerning Ecological Systems Theory throughout the late 1970s and early 1980s during lectures and presentations to the psychological community.[2] As he examined his original theory, he began to identify the role of other key factors in development. In 1986, Bronfenbrenner published his new theory and named it Bioecological Systems Theory.[3]
Urie Bronfenbrenner & Morris, P.A. (2006). "The bioecological model of human development". Handbook of Child Psychology. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 1: 793–828. doi:10.1002/9780470147658.chpsy0114. ISBN 0470147652.
The bioecological model of development is a theoretical model of gene–environment interactions in human development. This model, first proposed by Urie Bronfenbrenner and Stephen J. Ceci,[1] in 1994, is an extension of Bronfenbrenner's original theoretical model of human development, called ecological systems theory. Bronfenbrenner developed the bioecological model after recognizing that the individual was overlooked in other theories of human development, which were largely focused on the context of development (e.g., the environment).
.Bronfenbrenner proposed that people constantly engage with these chronosystems. He added that both people and their environments have ongoing effects on one another. However, Bronfenbrenner saw a need to further improve this model after realizing there wasn't enough emphasis on how each person plays a part in their own development.
Bronfenbrenner, U. (1974). "Developmental research, public policy, and the ecology of childhood". Child Development. Wiley. 45 (1): 1–5. doi:10.2307/1127743. JSTOR 1127743.
Kurt Lewin, a German forerunner of ecological systems models and the founder of modern social psychology,[5] pioneered the use of theory and experimentation to test hypotheses. He focused on the life space, which he defined as a person's psychological activities that occur within a kind of psychological field.[6] The life space that contains all the events in the past, present, and future that shape and affect an individual. This focus on individuality led him to diagram the life space, containing arrows leading to and from possible life goals, both positive and negative. In sum, Lewin's ecological systems model emphasized situational and proximal causes. Additionally, Lewin's theory demonstrates that behavior is a function of the current person by their environment, which are all affected by past experience.
Bronfenbrenner, U.; Morris, P.A. (1998). The ecology of developmental processes. Handbook of Child Psychology. Vol. 1. New York. pp. 993–1023. ISBN 0-471-05527-1.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Bronfenbrenner U, Ceci SJ (October 1994). "Nature-nurture reconceptualized in developmental perspective: a bioecological model". Psychological Review. 101 (4): 568–586. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.101.4.568. PMID 7984707.
Bronfenbrenner, U. (1979). The Ecology of Human Development:Experiments by nature and design. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1–348. ISBN 0674224574
Johnson, Genevieve Marie (2010). "Internet Use and Child Development: Validation of the Ecological Techno-Subsystem". Journal of Educational Technology & Society. 13 (1): 176–185. ISSN 1176-3647.
2Mesosystem: The interactions between numerous components of the microsystem are included in the mesosystem. Because these two direct impacts (components of the microsystem) may interact, the interaction between a child's home and school can be regarded as a part of the mesosystem.
^ a b c d e Urie Bronfenbrenner & Morris, P.A. (2006). "The bioecological model of human development". Handbook of Child Psychology. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 1: 793–828. doi:10.1002/9780470147658.chpsy0114. ISBN 0470147652.
^ Johnson, Genevieve Marie (2010). "Internet Use and Child Development: Validation of the Ecological Techno-Subsystem". Journal of Educational Technology & Society. 13 (1): 176–185. ISSN 1176-3647.
Cleanup tagged articles with a reason field from May 2020
Tudge, J.R.H.; Mokrova, I.; Hatfield, B.E.; Karnik, R.B. (2009). "Uses and misuses of Bronfenbrenner's bioecological theory of human development" (PDF). Journal of Family Theory and Review. 1 (4): 198–210. doi:10.1111/j.1756-2589.2009.00026.x.
^ Bronfenbrenner, U. (1974). "Developmental research, public policy, and the ecology of childhood". Child Development. Wiley. 45 (1): 1–5. doi:10.2307/1127743. JSTOR 1127743.
1 The innermost layer of Bronfenbrenner's model is called the microsystem. The interpersonal relationships and direct interactions with the nearby surroundings make up this context, which is the closest to an individual. The microsystem includes, for illustration, a child's home and school
Bergen, D. (2008). Human development: traditional and contemporary theories. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall. p. 220. ISBN 978-0131343979.
The ecological systems theory emerged before the advent of Internet revolution and the developmental influence of then available technology (e.g., television) was conceptually situated in the child's microsystem. Johnson and Puplampu, for instance, proposed in 2008 the ecological techno-subsystem, a dimension of the microsystem.[12] This microsystem comprises both child interaction with living (e.g., peers, parents, teachers) and non-living (e.g., hardware, gadgets) elements of communication, information, and recreation technologies in immediate or direct environments. Johnson published a validation study in 2010.[13]
^ a b c .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Bronfenbrenner U, Ceci SJ (October 1994). "Nature-nurture reconceptualized in developmental perspective: a bioecological model". Psychological Review. 101 (4): 568–586. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.101.4.568. PMID 7984707.
In comparison to the original theory, bioecological systems theory adds more emphasis to the person in the context of development. Additionally, Bronfenbrenner chose to leave out key features of the ecological systems theory (e.g., ecological validity and ecological experiments) during his development of bioecological systems theory.As a whole, Bronfenbrenner's new theory continued to go through a series of transformations as he continuously analyzed different factors in human development. Critical components of bioecological systems theory did not emerge all at once. Instead, his ideas evolved and adapted to the research and ideas of the times.For example, the role of proximal processes, which is now recognized as a key feature of bioecological systems theory, did not emerge until the 1990s.[8] This theory went through a series of transformations and elaborations until 2005 when Bronfenbrenner died.[3]
^ Bronfenbrenner, U. (2005). Making human beings human: Bioecological perspectives on human development. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications Ltd. pp. 3–15. ISBN 0-7619-2711-5.
Johnson, Genevieve Marie; Puplampu, Korbla P. (2008). "Internet use during childhood and the ecological techno-subsystem". Canadian Journal of Learning and Technology. doi:10.21432/T2CP4T. ISSN 1499-6685.
One of Bronfenbrenner's main influences was Lev Vygotsky, a Russian teacher and psychologist. Vygotsky created the social learning theory of development in the 1920s and 1930s to understand how people learn in social contexts and how social environments influence the learning process (1962). Vygotsky recognized that learning always occurs and cannot be separated from a social context and that this process is integral to a child's development.[4]
To best capture such dynamic processes, developmental research designs would ideally be longitudinal (over time), rather than cross-sectional (a single point in time), and conducted in children's natural environments, rather than a laboratory. Such designs would thus occur in schools, homes, day-care centers, and other environments in which proximal processes are most likely to occur. The bioecological model also proposes that the most scientifically rich studies would include more than one distinct but theoretically related proximal process in the same design.[2] Indeed, studies that claim to be based upon bioecological theory should include elements of process, person, context, and time, and should include explicit explanation and acknowledgement if one of the elements is lacking.[8] Based on the interactions of proposed elements of the PPCT model, appropriate statistical analyses of PPCT data would likely include explorations of mediation and moderation effects, as well as multilevel modeling of data to account for the nesting of different components of the model. Moreover, research that includes both genetic and environmental components would capture even more of the bioecological model's elements.
The bioecological model of human development can be applied to both children and maturing adults, and is thus a lifespan approach to development. The framework emphasizes the importance of understanding bidirectional influences between individuals’ development and their surrounding environmental contexts. In the bioecological model, in contrast to his earlier models, Bronfenbrenner also includes time (known as the chronosystem in his model) as an important component in the way that people and environments change. The bioecological model proposed a new method of conducting research which was heavily influential in developmental psychology and is still considered relevant today.
The development of ecological systems theory arose because Bronfenbrenner noted a lack of focus on the role of context in terms of development. He argued the environment in which children operate is important because development may be shaped by their interactions with the specific environment. He urged his colleagues to study development in terms of ecological contexts, that is the normal environments of children (schools, homes, daycares). Researchers heeded his advice and a great deal of research flourished in the early 1980s that focused on context.
Neff, L. S. (n.d.). Lev Vygotsky and social learning theories.
Thus, the bioecological model highlights the importance of understanding a person's development within environmental systems. It further explains that both the person and the environment affect one another bidirectionally. Although even Bronfenbrenner himself critiqued the falsifiability of the model,[9] the bioecological model has real world applications for developmental research, practice, and policies (as demonstrated below).
^ Bronfenbrenner, U. (1979). The Ecology of Human Development:Experiments by nature and design. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1–348. ISBN 0674224574
^ a b c d e f g Tudge, J.R.H.; Mokrova, I.; Hatfield, B.E.; Karnik, R.B. (2009). "Uses and misuses of Bronfenbrenner's bioecological theory of human development" (PDF). Journal of Family Theory and Review. 1 (4): 198–210. doi:10.1111/j.1756-2589.2009.00026.x.
"Uses and misuses of Bronfenbrenner's bioecological theory of human development"
In addition to adding to the theoretical understanding of human development, the bioecological model lends itself to changes in the conceptualization of the research endeavor. In some of his earliest comments on the state of developmental research, Bronfenbrenner lamented that developmental research concerned itself with studying “strange behavior of children in strange situations for the briefest possible period of time”.[10] He proposed, rather, that developmental science should take as its goal a study of children in context in order to best determine which processes are naturally “developmentally generative” (promote development) and which are naturally “developmentally disruptive” (prevent development).
^ Neff, L. S. (n.d.). Lev Vygotsky and social learning theories.
^ a b c Bergen, D. (2008). Human development: traditional and contemporary theories. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall. p. 220. ISBN 978-0131343979.
