Objective pronoun, a personal pronoun that is used as a grammatical object
This page was last edited on 21 August 2022, at 01:50 (UTC).
Goal, a result or possible outcome that a person or a system desires
When observational data arises which appears to contradict or falsify a given scientific paradigm, scientists within that paradigm historically have not immediately rejected it, as Karl Popper's philosophical theory of falsificationism would have them do. Instead they have gone to considerable lengths to resolve the apparent conflict without rejecting the paradigm. Through ad hoc variations to the theory and sympathetic interpretation of the data, supporting scientists will resolve the apparent conundrum. In extreme cases, they may ignore the data altogether. Thus, the failure of a scientific paradigm will go into crisis when a significant portion of scientists working in the field lose confidence in it. The corollary of this observation is that a paradigm is contingent on the social order amongst scientists at the time it gains ascendancy.[5]
^ a b Kuhn, Thomas S. (1962), The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (PDF), The University of Chicago Press, archived from the original (PDF) on 20 October 2014, retrieved 14 November 2014
Another methodological aspect is the avoidance of bias, which can involve cognitive bias, cultural bias, or sampling bias. Methods for avoiding or overcoming such biases include random sampling and double-blind trials.[3] However, objectivity in measurement can be unobtainable in certain circumstances. Even the most quantitative social sciences such as economics employ measures that are constructs (conventions, to employ the term coined by Pierre Duhem).
A critical argument on scientific objectivity and positivism is that all science has a degree of interpretivism.[4]: 29  In the 1920s, Percy Bridgman's The Logic of Modern Physics and the operationalism presented was centered in such recognition.[4]: 29
In the twentieth century trained judgment[1]: 309  supplemented mechanical objectivity as scientists began to recognize that, in order for images or data to be of any use, scientists needed to be able to see scientifically; that is, to interpret images or data and identify and group them according to particular professional training, rather than to simply depict them mechanically.[1]: 311–314  Since the latter half of the nineteenth century, objectivity has come to involve a combination of trained judgment and mechanical objectivity.
Next to unintentional and systematic error, there is always the possibility of deliberate misrepresentation of scientific results, whether for gain, fame, or ideological motives. When such cases of scientific fraud come to light, they usually give rise to an academic scandal, but it is unknown how much fraud goes undiscovered. For important results, other groups will try to repeat the experiment. If they consistently fail, they will bring these negative results into the scientific debate.[according to whom?]
"Situated Knowledges: The Science Question in Feminism and the Privilege of Partial Perspective"
Kuhn, Thomas (1962). The structure of scientific revolutions. University of Chicago Press, 3rd Ed., 1996.
Gaukroger, S. (2001). Objectivity, History of. IN: Smelser, N. J. & Baltes, P. B. (eds.) International Encyclopedia of the Social and Behavioral Sciences. Oxford. (pp. 10785–10789).
Kuhn's theory has been criticised by scientists such as Richard Dawkins and Alan Sokal as presenting a relativist view of scientific progress.[6][7]
This page was last edited on 28 February 2023, at 08:42 (UTC).
^ a b c d e f g h i
The scientific method was argued for by Enlightenment philosopher Francis Bacon, rose to popularity with the discoveries of Isaac Newton and his followers, and continued into later eras. In the early eighteenth century, there existed an epistemic virtue in science which has been called truth-to-nature.[1]: 55–58  This ideal was practiced by Enlightenment naturalists and scientific atlas-makers, and involved active attempts to eliminate any idiosyncrasies in their representations of nature in order to create images thought best to represent "what truly is".[1]: 59–60 [2]: 84–85  Judgment and skill were deemed necessary in order to determine the "typical", "characteristic", "ideal", or "average".[2]: 87  In practicing, truth-to-nature naturalists did not seek to depict exactly what was seen; rather, they sought a reasoned image.[1]: 98
^ a b c d Daston, Lorraine; Galison, Peter (Autumn 1992). "The Image of Objectivity" (PDF). Representations (40): 81–128. doi:10.2307/2928741. JSTOR 2928741.
Sokal, Alan; Bricmont, Jean (1999). "Intermezzo: Epistemic Relativism in The Philosophy of Science". Fashionable Nonsense: Postmodern Intellectuals' Abuse of Science. USA: Picador USA. ISBN 0312204078.
Restivo, Sal. (20XX). Science, Society, and Values: Toward a Sociology of Objectivity. Lehigh University Press.[ISBN missing]
In the latter half of the nineteenth-century, objectivity in science was born when a new practice of mechanical objectivity appeared.[1]: 121  "'Let nature speak for itself' became the watchword of a new brand of scientific objectivity."[2]: 81  It was at this time that idealized representations of nature, which were previously seen as a virtue, were now seen as a vice.[1]: 120  Scientists began to see it as their duty to actively restrain themselves from imposing their own projections onto nature.[2]: 81  The aim was to liberate representations of nature from subjective, human interference and in order to achieve this scientists began using self-registering instruments, cameras, wax molds, and other technological devices.[1]: 121
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Daston, Lorraine; Galison, Peter (2010). Objectivity. Zone Books. ISBN 9781890951795. Archived from the original on 2017-05-22. Retrieved 2015-07-23.
Situated Knowledges: The Science Question in Feminism and the Privilege of Partial Perspective
When such cases of scientific fraud come to light, they usually give rise to an academic scandal, but it is unknown how much fraud goes undiscovered. For important results, other groups will try to repeat the experiment. If they consistently fail, they will bring these negative results into the scientific debate.
History of Psychiatry and Medical Psychology: With an Epilogue on Psychiatry and the Mind-Body Relation
^ Sokal, Alan; Bricmont, Jean (1999). "Intermezzo: Epistemic Relativism in The Philosophy of Science". Fashionable Nonsense: Postmodern Intellectuals' Abuse of Science. USA: Picador USA. ISBN 0312204078.
Wikipedia articles needing words, phrases or quotes attributed from January 2010
Various scientific processes, such as peer reviews, the discussions at scientific conferences, and other meetings where scientific results are presented, are part of a social process whose purpose is to strengthen the objective aspect of the scientific method.
Objectivity in science is an attempt to uncover truths about the natural world by eliminating personal biases, emotions, and false beliefs.[1] It is often linked to observation as part of the scientific method. It is thus intimately related to the aim of testability and reproducibility. To be considered objective, the results of measurement must be communicated from person to person, and then demonstrated for third parties, as an advance in a collective understanding of the world. Such demonstrable knowledge has ordinarily conferred demonstrable powers of prediction or technology.
^ a b c d Haraway, Donna (Autumn 1988). "Situated Knowledges: The Science Question in Feminism and the Privilege of Partial Perspective" (PDF). Feminist Studies. 14 (3): 575–599. doi:10.2307/3178066. JSTOR 3178066. S2CID 39794636. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-08-29. Retrieved 2015-07-23.
Polanyi, Michael (1958). Personal knowledge, towards a post-critical philosophy. London: Routledge.
Latour, Bruno (1987). Science in Action. Cambridge, Mass: Harvard University Press.
Sokal, Alan & Bricmont, Jean (1999). Intellectual Impostures: Postmodern philosophers' abuse of science. London: Profile Books.
Porter, Theodore M. (1995). Trust in Numbers: The Pursuit of Objectivity in Science and Public Life. Princeton University Press.
4Critiques of scientific objectivity											Toggle Critiques of scientific objectivity subsection																					4.1Thomas Kuhn's The Structure of Scientific Revolutions																											4.2Donna Haraway's Situated Knowledges
Various scientific processes, such as peer reviews, the discussions at scientific conferences, and other meetings where scientific results are presented, are part of a social process whose purpose is to strengthen the objective aspect of the scientific method.[attribution needed]
^ a b Gach, John; Wallace, Edwin R. (2010). History of Psychiatry and Medical Psychology: With an Epilogue on Psychiatry and the Mind-Body Relation. Springer Science & Business Media. ISBN 9780387347080.
Based on a historical review of the development of certain scientific theories in his book, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, scientist and historian Thomas Kuhn raised some philosophical objections to claims of the possibility of scientific understanding being truly objective. In Kuhn's analysis, scientists in different disciplines organise themselves into de facto paradigms within which scientific research is done, junior scientists are educated, and scientific problems are determined.[5]
Gach, John; Wallace, Edwin R. (2010). History of Psychiatry and Medical Psychology: With an Epilogue on Psychiatry and the Mind-Body Relation. Springer Science & Business Media. ISBN 9780387347080.
Reiss, Julian; Sprenger, Jan (6 November 2017) [First published 25 August 2014]. "Scientific Objectivity".In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2017 ed.). Stanford University: The Metaphysics Research Lab. ISSN 1095-5054. Retrieved 31 May 2018.
Kuhn, Thomas S. (1962), The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (PDF), The University of Chicago Press, archived from the original (PDF) on 20 October 2014, retrieved 14 November 2014
In Situated Knowledges: The Science Question in Feminism and the Privilege of Partial Perspective (1988), Donna Haraway argues that objectivity in science and philosophy is traditionally understood as a kind of disembodied and transcendent "conquering gaze from nowhere."[8]: 581  She argues that this kind of objectivity, in which the subject is split apart and distanced from the object, is an impossible "illusion, a god trick."[8]: 583–587  She demands a re-thinking of objectivity in such a way that, while still striving for "faithful accounts of the real world,"[8]: 579  we must also acknowledge our perspective within the world. She calls this new kind of knowledge-making "situated knowledges." Objectivity, she argues, "turns out to be about particular and specific embodiment and ... not about the false vision promising transcendence of all limits and responsibility". This new objectivity, "allows us to become answerable for what we learn how to see."[8]: 581–583
^ a b c d e f g h i .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Daston, Lorraine; Galison, Peter (2010). Objectivity. Zone Books. ISBN 9781890951795. Archived from the original on 2017-05-22. Retrieved 2015-07-23.
Haraway, Donna (Autumn 1988). "Situated Knowledges: The Science Question in Feminism and the Privilege of Partial Perspective" (PDF). Feminist Studies. 14 (3): 575–599. doi:10.2307/3178066. JSTOR 3178066. S2CID 39794636. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-08-29. Retrieved 2015-07-23.
The problem of philosophical objectivity is contrasted with personal subjectivity, sometimes exacerbated by the overgeneralization of a hypothesis to the whole. For example, Newton's law of universal gravitation appears to be the norm for the attraction between celestial bodies, but it was later refined and extended—and philosophically superseded—by the more general theory of relativity.
^ O'Leary, Zina (2004-06-09). The Essential Guide to Doing Research. SAGE Publications. ISBN 9780761941996.
O'Leary, Zina (2004-06-09). The Essential Guide to Doing Research. SAGE Publications. ISBN 9780761941996.
Daston, Lorraine; Galison, Peter (Autumn 1992). "The Image of Objectivity" (PDF). Representations (40): 81–128. doi:10.2307/2928741. JSTOR 2928741.
Objective pronoun, a personal pronoun that is used as a grammatical object
This page was last edited on 21 August 2022, at 01:50 (UTC).
Goal, a result or possible outcome that a person or a system desires
Objectivity (philosophy), the property of being independent from perceptionObjectivity (science), the goal of eliminating personal biases in the practice of scienceJournalistic objectivity, encompassing fairness, disinterestedness, factuality, and nonpartisanship
This page was last edited on 18 October 2022, at 15:27 (UTC).
Objectivity (science), the goal of eliminating personal biases in the practice of science
Objectivity/DB, an object-oriented database management system produced by Objectivity Inc.
Object file, the output of a compiler or other translator program (also known as "object code")
Object (philosophy), a thing, being, or conceptObject (abstract), an object which does not exist at any particular time or placePhysical object, an identifiable collection of matter
The Object, a prop used by Hipgnosis for the Led Zeppelin album Presence
Object (abstract), an object which does not exist at any particular time or place
Physical body or object, in physics, an identifiable collection of matterPlanetary body or planetary object, any secondary body in the Solar system that has a planet-like geology
Planetary body or planetary object, any secondary body in the Solar system that has a planet-like geology
Object (IBM i), the fundamental unit of data storage in the IBM i operating system
Object (computer science), a language mechanism for binding data with methods that operate on that dataObject-orientation (disambiguation), in which concepts are represented as objectsObject-oriented programming (OOP), in which an object is an instance of a class or arrayObject (IBM i), the fundamental unit of data storage in the IBM i operating system
Group object, a generalization of a group built on more complicated structures than sets
Object (grammar), a sentence element, such as a direct object or an indirect object
Object (image processing), a portion of an image interpreted as a unit
Object-orientation (disambiguation), in which concepts are represented as objectsObject-oriented programming (OOP), in which an object is an instance of a class or array
This page was last edited on 6 March 2023, at 21:28 (UTC).
Objet d'art, works of art that are not paintings; large or medium-sized sculptures, prints or drawings
2Science, technology, and mathematics											Toggle Science, technology, and mathematics subsection																					2.1Computing																											2.2Mathematics																											2.3Physics																											2.4Other sciences
Object (Le Déjeuner en fourrure), a sculpture by Méret Oppenheim
In object relations theory of psychoanalysis, that to which a subject relates
Object (National Register of Historic Places), a classification used by the U.S. National Register of Historic Places
"Object", a song by the Cure from Three Imaginary Boys, 1979
Object-oriented programming (OOP), in which an object is an instance of a class or array
Subjectivism, a philosophical tenet that accords primacy to subjective experience as fundamental of all measure and law
This page was last edited on 21 August 2022, at 01:50 (UTC).
Subjectivity, a subject's personal perspective, feelings, beliefs, desires or discovery, as opposed to those made from an independent, objective, point of viewSubjective experience, the subjective quality of conscious experience
A school of bayesian probability stating that the state of knowledge corresponds to personal belief
Subject (philosophy), who has subjective experiences or a relationship with another entity
In some languages the direct object pronoun and the indirect object pronoun have separate forms. For example, in the Spanish object pronoun system, direct object: Lo mandaron a la escuela (They sent him to school) and indirect object: Le mandaron una carta (They sent him a letter). Other languages divide object pronouns into a larger variety of classes.On the other hand, many languages, for example Persian, do not have distinct object pronouns: Man Farsi balad-am (I can speak Persian). Man ra mishenasad. (He knows me).
Object pronouns, in languages where they are distinguished from subject pronouns, are typically a vestige of an older case system. English, for example, once had an extensive declension system that specified distinct accusative and dative case forms for both nouns and pronouns. And after a preposition, a noun or pronoun could be in either of these cases, or in the genitive or instrumental case. With the exception of the genitive (the "apostrophe-s" form), in nouns this system disappeared entirely, while in personal pronouns it collapsed into a single case, covering the roles of both accusative and dative, as well as all instances after a preposition. That is, the new oblique (object) case came to be used for the object of either a verb or a preposition, contrasting with the genitive, which links two nouns.
^ Randolph Quirk, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik, A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language (London: Longman, 1985), p. 337.
Historically, Middle English and Early Modern English retained the T–V distinction; the second person pronoun had separate singular/familiar and plural/formal forms with subject and object forms of both.In standard modern forms of English, all second person forms have been reduced to simply "you".These forms are still retained (sometimes partially) in some dialects of Northern English, Scottish English, and in the Scots language, a Germanic language closely related to English which diverged from it during the Early Modern period.
In linguistics, an object pronoun is a personal pronoun that is used typically as a grammatical object: the direct or indirect object of a verb, or the object of a preposition. Object pronouns contrast with subject pronouns. Object pronouns in English take the objective case, sometimes called the oblique case or object case.[1]For example, the English object pronoun me is found in "They see me" (direct object), "He's giving me my book" (indirect object), and "Sit with me" (object of a preposition); this contrasts with the subject pronoun in "I see them," "I am getting my book," and "I am sitting here."
The English personal and interrogative pronouns have the following subject and object forms:
This page was last edited on 19 June 2022, at 17:41 (UTC).
Randolph Quirk, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik, A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language (London: Longman, 1985), p. 337.
For a discussion of the use of historically object pronouns in subject position in English (e.g. "Jay and me will arrive later"), see the article on English personal pronouns.
Static typing information may also optionally be added to variables. This information is then checked at compile time. In the following four statements, increasingly specific type information is provided. The statements are equivalent at runtime, but the extra information allows the compiler to warn the programmer if the passed argument does not match the type specified.
The initializer pattern is used to assure that the object is properly initialized by its superclass before the init method performs its initialization. It performs the following actions:
"Objective-C Boot Camp". Archived from the original on February 11, 2018. Retrieved February 11, 2018. Objective-C is a strict superset of ANSI C
forwarding methods:- (retval_t)forward:(SEL)sel args:(arglist_t)args; // with GCC- (id)forward:(SEL)sel args:(marg_list)args; // with NeXT/Apple systems
^ "Clang Language Extensions — Clang 3.5 documentation". Clang.llvm.org. Archived from the original on February 24, 2014. Retrieved April 16, 2014.
Objective-C and C++ exception handling is distinct; the handlers of each cannot handle exceptions of the other type. As a result, object destructors are not run. This is mitigated in recent "Objective-C 2.0" runtimes as Objective-C exceptions are either replaced by C++ exceptions completely (Apple runtime), or partly when Objective-C++ library is linked (GNUstep libobjc2).[27]
^ Apple, Inc. (2009). "Fast Enumeration". apple.com. Archived from the original on December 17, 2009. Retrieved December 31, 2009.
Objective-C classes cannot have instance variables of C++ classes that lack a default constructor or that have one or more virtual methods,[citation needed] but pointers to C++ objects can be used as instance variables without restriction (allocate them with new in the -init method).
Note: in OpenStep, Cocoa, and GNUstep, the commonly used frameworks of Objective-C, one does not use the Object class. The - (void)forwardInvocation:(NSInvocation *)anInvocation method of the NSObject class is used to do forwarding.
"Objective-C Runtime Programming Guide". Apple Inc. Archived from the original on April 4, 2014. Retrieved October 21, 2013.
In the above statement, foo must be an instance of the NSNumber class.
denotes that there is the abstract idea of locking. By stating in the class definition that the protocol is implemented,
^ "GNU Objective-C runtime API". Using GCC. Retrieved January 6, 2020.
^ a b "App Frameworks". Apple. June 2014. Archived from the original on February 16, 2019. Retrieved February 13, 2019.
Internal representations of a method vary between different implementations of Objective-C. If myColor is of the class Color, instance method -changeColorToRed:green:blue: might be internally labeled _i_Color_changeColorToRed_green_blue. The i is to refer to an instance method, with the class and then method names appended and colons changed to underscores. As the order of parameters is part of the method name, it cannot be changed to suit coding style or expression as with true named parameters.
In the above example, notice the id return type. This type stands for "pointer to any object" in Objective-C (See the Dynamic typing section).
* (if the recipient responds to them, as written in the Forwarder)
^ "Extension Methods (C# Programming Guide)". Microsoft. October 2010. Archived from the original on July 11, 2011. Retrieved July 10, 2011.
Return types can be any standard C type, a pointer to a generic Objective-C object, a pointer to a specific type of object such as NSArray *, NSImage *, or NSString *, or a pointer to the class to which the method belongs (instancetype). The default return type is the generic Objective-C type id.
Other languages have attempted to add this feature in a variety of ways. TOM took the Objective-C system a step further and allowed for the addition of variables also. Other languages have used prototype-based solutions instead, the most notable being Self.
C++ "by value" semantics cannot be applied to Objective-C objects, which are only accessible through pointers.
2Syntax											Toggle Syntax subsection																					2.1Messages																											2.2Interfaces and implementations																								2.2.1Interface																											2.2.2Implementation																											2.2.3Instantiation																														2.3Protocols																											2.4Dynamic typing																											2.5Forwarding																								2.5.1Example																											2.5.2Notes																														2.6Categories																								2.6.1Example use of categories																											2.6.2Notes																														2.7Posing																											2.8#import																											2.9Linux gcc compilation
4Language variants											Toggle Language variants subsection																					4.1Objective-C++																											4.2Objective-C 2.0																								4.2.1Garbage collection																											4.2.2Properties																											4.2.3Non-fragile instance variables																											4.2.4Fast enumeration																											4.2.5Class extensions																											4.2.6Implications for Cocoa development																														4.3Blocks																											4.4Modern Objective-C																								4.4.1Automatic Reference Counting																											4.4.2Literals																											4.4.3Subscripting																														4.5"Modern" Objective-C syntax (1997)																											4.6mulle-objc																											4.7Portable Object Compiler																											4.8GEOS Objective-C																											4.9Clang																											4.10GNU, GNUstep, and WinObjC
In the case where no custom initialization is being performed, the "new" method can often be used in place of the alloc-init messages:
* Check whether the recipient actually responds to the message.
Automatic Reference Counting (ARC) is a compile-time feature that eliminates the need for programmers to manually manage retain counts using retain and release.[44]Unlike garbage collection, which occurs at run time, ARC eliminates the overhead of a separate process managing retain counts. ARC and manual memory management are not mutually exclusive; programmers can continue to use non-ARC code in ARC-enabled projects by disabling ARC for individual code files. Xcode can also attempt to automatically upgrade a project to ARC.
NeXT and Apple Obj-C runtimes have long included a short-form way to create new strings, using the literal syntax @"a new string", or drop to CoreFoundation constants kCFBooleanTrue and kCFBooleanFalse for NSNumber with Boolean values. Using this format saves the programmer from having to use the longer initWithString or similar methods when doing certain operations.
Swizzling of the isa pointer allows for classes to change at runtime. Typically used for debugging where freed objects are swizzled into zombie objects whose only purpose is to report an error when someone calls them. Swizzling was also used in Enterprise Objects Framework to create database faults.[citation needed] Swizzling is used today by Apple's Foundation Framework to implement Key-Value Observing.
"objc_msgSend - Objective-C Runtime". Apple Developer Documentation. Retrieved February 10, 2020.
^ "Examining Objective-C". Archived from the original on September 4, 2014. Retrieved September 4, 2014. Objective-C is an object-oriented strict superset of C
The NeXT frontend source code was released since it was made as part of GCC, released GNU Public License which forces ones making derivative works to do so.[when?] Apple continued this tradition in releasing its fork of GCC up to 4.2.1, after which they abandoned the compiler. GCC maintainers took in the changes, but did not invest much in supporting newer features such as the Objective-C 2.0 language.[32]: Which compiler
The naming Objective-C 2.0 represents a break in the versioning system of the language, as the last Objective-C version for NeXT was "objc4".[32] This project name was kept in the last release of legacy Objective-C runtime source code in Mac OS X Leopard (10.5).[33]
Free Software Foundation, Inc. (2011). "GCC 4.6 Release Series – Changes, New Features, and Fixes". Gcc.gnu.org. Archived from the original on December 2, 2013. Retrieved November 27, 2013.
Objective-C's features often allow for flexible, and often easy, solutions to programming issues.
The use of reflection is part of the wider distinction between dynamic (run-time) features and static (compile-time) features of a language. Although Objective-C and C++ each employ a mix of both features, Objective-C is decidedly geared toward run-time decisions while C++ is geared toward compile-time decisions. The tension between dynamic and static programming involves many of the classic trade-offs in programming: dynamic features add flexibility, static features add speed and type checking.
Apple's versioning scheme for its clang-based "LLVM compiler" differs from the LLVM's open-source versioning. See Xcode § Toolchain versions for a translation[43]
Class posing was declared deprecated with Mac OS X v10.5, and is unavailable in the 64-bit runtime. Similar functionality can be achieved by using method swizzling in categories, that swaps one method's implementation with another's that have the same signature.
More recently, package managers have started appearing, such as CocoaPods, which aims to be both a package manager and a repository of packages. A lot of open-source Objective-C code that was written in the last few years can now be installed using CocoaPods.
All of these practical changes lowered the barrier to entry, likely the biggest problem for the widespread acceptance of Smalltalk in the 1980s.
Unlike C++, Objective-C does not support operator overloading. Also unlike C++, Objective-C allows an object to directly inherit only from one class (forbidding multiple inheritance). However, in most cases, categories and protocols may be used as alternative ways to achieve the same results.
"gcc/libobjc". GitHub. gcc-mirror. January 6, 2020. Retrieved January 6, 2020. he runtime has been completely rewritten in gcc 2.4.The earlier runtime had several severe bugs and was rather incomplete.
The compiler is reporting the point made earlier, that Forwarder does not respond to hello messages. In this circumstance, it is safe to ignore the warning since forwarding was implemented. Running the program produces this output:
Objective-C blocks and C++11 lambdas are distinct entities. However, a block is transparently generated on macOS when passing a lambda where a block is expected.[28]
Lattner, Chris (June 3, 2014). "Chris Lattner's Homepage". Chris Lattner. Archived from the original on June 4, 2014. Retrieved June 3, 2014. The Swift language is the product of tireless effort from a team of language experts, documentation gurus, compiler optimization ninjas, and an incredibly important internal dogfooding group who provided feedback to help refine and battle-test ideas. Of course, it also greatly benefited from the experiences hard-won by many other languages in the field, drawing ideas from Objective-C, Rust, Haskell, Ruby, Python, C#, CLU, and far too many others to list.
Lee, Keith (September 3, 2013). Pro Objective-C. Apress. ISBN 9781430250500. Archived from the original on May 14, 2018. Retrieved December 24, 2017 – via Google Books.
Fast enumeration generates more efficient code than standard enumeration because method calls to enumerate over objects are replaced by pointer arithmetic using the NSFastEnumeration protocol.[40]
^ "Leopard Technology Series for Developers: Objective-C 2.0 Overview". Apple Inc. November 6, 2007. Archived from the original on July 24, 2010. Retrieved May 30, 2010.
^ "Common Lisp and Readline". GitHub. Archived from the original on September 6, 2014. Retrieved September 15, 2014. The issue first arose when NeXT proposed to distribute a modified GCC in two parts and let the user link them.Jobs asked me whether this was lawful.It seemed to me at the time that it was, following reasoning like what you are using; but since the result was very undesirable for free software, I said I would have to ask the lawyer.What the lawyer said surprised me; he said that judges would consider such schemes to be "subterfuges" and would be very harsh toward them.He said a judge would ask whether it is "really" one program, rather than how it is labeled.So I went back to Jobs and said we believed his plan was not allowed by the GPL.The direct result of this is that we now have an Objective C front end.They had wanted to distribute the Objective C parser as a separate proprietary package to link with the GCC back end, but since I didn't agree this was allowed, they made it free.
An Objective-C declaration cannot be within a C++ template declaration and vice versa. However, Objective-C types (e.g., Classname *) can be used as C++ template parameters.
In addition to C's style of procedural programming, C++ directly supports certain forms of object-oriented programming, generic programming, and metaprogramming. C++ also comes with a large standard library that includes several container classes. Similarly, Objective-C adds object-oriented programming, dynamic typing, and reflection to C. Objective-C does not provide a standard library per se, but in most places where Objective-C is used, it is used with an OpenStep-like library such as OPENSTEP, Cocoa, or GNUstep, which provides functionality similar to C++'s standard library.
Apple, Inc. (August 22, 2006). "Mac OS X Leopard – Xcode 3.0". apple.com. Archived from the original on October 24, 2007. Retrieved August 22, 2006.
Cox began writing a pre-processor for C to add some of the abilities of Smalltalk. He soon had a working implementation of an object-oriented extension to the C language, which he called "OOPC" for Object-Oriented Pre-Compiler.[8]Love was hired by Schlumberger Research in 1982 and had the opportunity to acquire the first commercial copy of Smalltalk-80, which further influenced the development of their brainchild. In order to demonstrate that real progress could be made, Cox showed that making interchangeable software components really needed only a few practical changes to existing tools. Specifically, they needed to support objects in a flexible manner, come supplied with a usable set of libraries, and allow for the code (and any resources needed by the code) to be bundled into one cross-platform format.
The target class may not have received any messages prior to the posing.
ARC was introduced in LLVM 3.0. This translates to Xcode 4.2 (2011), or Apple LLVM compiler 3.0.[45]
Objective-C++ is a language variant accepted by the front-end to the GNU Compiler Collection and Clang, which can compile source files that use a combination of C++ and Objective-C syntax. Objective-C++ adds to C++ the extensions that Objective-C adds to C. As nothing is done to unify the semantics behind the various language features, certain restrictions apply:
^ "objc_msgSend - Objective-C Runtime". Apple Developer Documentation. Retrieved February 10, 2020.
^ "gcc/libobjc". GitHub. gcc-mirror. January 6, 2020. Retrieved January 6, 2020. he runtime has been completely rewritten in gcc 2.4.The earlier runtime had several severe bugs and was rather incomplete.
Objective-C derives its object syntax from Smalltalk. All of the syntax for non-object-oriented operations (including primitive variables, pre-processing, expressions, function declarations, and function calls) are identical to those of C, while the syntax for object-oriented features is an implementation of Smalltalk-style messaging.
^ "Kresten Krab Thorup | LinkedIn". www.linkedin.com. Archived from the original on July 15, 2014. Retrieved June 23, 2016.
It allows instance variables that provide the backing for properties to be synthesized at runtime without them being declared in the class's interface.
In order to circumvent the terms of the GPL, NeXT had originally intended to ship the Objective-C frontend separately, allowing the user to link it with GCC to produce the compiler executable. Though initially accepted by Richard M. Stallman, this plan was rejected after Stallman consulted with GNU's lawyers and NeXT agreed to make Objective-C part of GCC.[9]
^ "Objective-C Literals — Clang 3.5 documentation". Clang.llvm.org. Archived from the original on June 6, 2014. Retrieved April 16, 2014.
An informal protocol is a list of methods that a class can opt to implement. It is specified in the documentation, since it has no presence in the language. Informal protocols are implemented as a category (see below) on NSObject and often include optional methods, which, if implemented, can change the behavior of a class. For example, a text field class might have a delegate that implements an informal protocol with an optional method for performing auto-completion of user-typed text. The text field discovers whether the delegate implements that method (via reflection) and, if so, calls the delegate's method to support the auto-complete feature.
action methods:- (retval_t)performv:(SEL)sel args:(arglist_t)args; // with GCC- (id)performv:(SEL)sel args:(marg_list)args; // with NeXT/Apple systems
"ACM SIGGRAPH 1983 Issue 8 - Smalltalk". Archived from the original on 15 April 2009. Retrieved 7 October 2008.
The interface only declares the class interface and not the methods themselves: the actual code is written in the implementation file. Implementation (method) files normally have the file extension .m, which originally signified "messages".[23]
^ "Hamster Emporium: [objc explain]: Non-pointer isa". Sealiesoftware.com. September 24, 2013. Archived from the original on June 3, 2014. Retrieved April 27, 2014.
Note that instanceMethod2With2Parameters:param2_callName: demonstrates the interleaving of selector segments with argument expressions, for which there is no direct equivalent in C/C++.
One notable difference is that Objective-C provides runtime support for reflective features, whereas C++ adds only a small amount of runtime support to C. In Objective-C, an object can be queried about its own properties, e.g., whether it will respond to a certain message. In C++, this is not possible without the use of external libraries.
"Extension Methods (C# Programming Guide)". Microsoft. October 2010. Archived from the original on July 11, 2011. Retrieved July 10, 2011.
"Leopard Technology Series for Developers: Objective-C 2.0 Overview". Apple Inc. November 6, 2007. Archived from the original on July 24, 2010. Retrieved May 30, 2010.
^ a b c d "ObjC2 FAQ". GNUstep. Retrieved January 6, 2020.
In the above statement, foo must be an instance of the NSNumber class, and it must conform to the NSCopying protocol.
The alloc message allocates enough memory to hold all the instance variables for an object, sets all the instance variables to zero values, and turns the memory into an instance of the class; at no point during the initialization is the memory an instance of the superclass.
The GNUstep developers, interested in the new language, forked the GCC libobjc to a project independent of GCC called libobjc2 in 2009. They also arranged for the runtime to be used with Clang to take advantage of the new language syntax.[32]: Which compiler  GCC moved slowly at the same time, but at GCC 4.6.0 (2011) they have moved on to Objective-C 2.0 in their libobjc as well.[31][53] GNUstep documentation suggest that the GCC implementation still lacks support for blocks, non-fragile variables, and the newer ARC.[32]: Which runtime
In 1988, NeXT licensed Objective-C from StepStone (the new name of PPI, the owner of the Objective-C trademark) and extended the GCC compiler to support Objective-C. NeXT developed the AppKit and Foundation Kit libraries on which the NeXTSTEP user interface and Interface Builder were based. While the NeXT workstations failed to make a great impact in the marketplace, the tools were widely lauded in the industry. This led NeXT to drop hardware production and focus on software tools, selling NeXTSTEP (and OPENSTEP) as a platform for custom programming.
Objective-C implementations use a thin runtime system written in C[citation needed], which adds little to the size of the application. In contrast, most object-oriented systems at the time that it was created used large virtual machine runtimes. Programs written in Objective-C tend to be not much larger than the size of their code and that of the libraries (which generally do not need to be included in the software distribution), in contrast to Smalltalk systems where a large amount of memory was used just to open a window. Objective-C applications tend to be larger than similar C or C++ applications because Objective-C dynamic typing does not allow methods to be stripped or inlined. Since the programmer has such freedom to delegate, forward calls, build selectors on the fly, and pass them to the runtime system, the Objective-C compiler cannot assume it is safe to remove unused methods or to inline calls.
A non-valid object pointer has the value nil; conditional statements like "if" treat nil like a null pointer, so the initialization code will not be executed if [super init] returned nil. If there is an error in initialization the init method should perform any necessary cleanup, including sending a "release" message to self, and return nil to indicate that initialization failed. Any checking for such errors must only be performed after having called the superclass initialization to ensure that destroying the object will be done correctly.
* be forwarded. All unrecognized methods will be forwarded to
Because Objective-C uses dynamic runtime typing and because all method calls are function calls (or, in some cases, syscalls), many common performance optimizations cannot be applied to Objective-C methods (for example: inlining, constant propagation, interprocedural optimizations, and scalar replacement of aggregates). This limits the performance of Objective-C abstractions relative to similar abstractions in languages such as C++ where such optimizations are possible.
^ "GNUstep: Introduction". GNUstep developers/GNU Project. Archived from the original on August 6, 2012. Retrieved July 29, 2012.
^ "AppScan Source 8.7 now available". Archived from the original on February 3, 2017. Retrieved February 11, 2018. The Objective-C programming language is a superset of the C programming language
"GCC 4.6 Release Series — Changes, New Features, and Fixes : GNU Project : Free Software Foundation"
"Hamster Emporium: [objc explain]: Non-pointer isa". Sealiesoftware.com. September 24, 2013. Archived from the original on June 3, 2014. Retrieved April 27, 2014.
Not only did the renaming serve to differentiate the new default behavior of classes within the OpenStep API, but it allowed code that used Object—the original base class used on NeXTSTEP (and, more or less, other Objective-C class libraries)—to co-exist in the same runtime with code that used NSObject (with some limitations). The introduction of the two letter prefix also became a simplistic form of namespaces, which Objective-C lacks. Using a prefix to create an informal packaging identifier became an informal coding standard in the Objective-C community, and continues to this day.
Apple has added some additional features to Objective 2.0 over time. The additions only apply to the "Apple LLVM compiler", i.e. clang frontend of the language. Confusingly, the versioning used by Apple differs from that of the LLVM upstream; refer to Xcode § Toolchain versions for a translation to open-source LLVM version numbers.[43]
^ "Transitioning to ARC Release Notes". Apple Inc. July 17, 2012. Archived from the original on June 9, 2012. Retrieved August 26, 2012.
^ Garling, Caleb. "iPhone Coding Language Now World's Third Most Popular". Wired. Archived from the original on September 9, 2013. Retrieved May 20, 2013.
Objective-C 2.0 provided an optional conservative, generational garbage collector. When run in backwards-compatible mode, the runtime turned reference counting operations such as "retain" and "release" into no-ops. All objects were subject to garbage collection when garbage collection was enabled. Regular C pointers could be qualified with "__strong" to also trigger the underlying write-barrier compiler intercepts and thus participate in garbage collection.[34] A zero-ing weak subsystem was also provided such that pointers marked as "__weak" are set to zero when the object (or more simply, GC memory) is collected. The garbage collector does not exist on the iOS implementation of Objective-C 2.0.[35] Garbage collection in Objective-C runs on a low-priority background thread, and can halt on user events, with the intention of keeping the user experience responsive.[36]
^ Apple, Inc. (October 19, 2009). "Avoiding Messaging Errors". The Objective-C Programming Language. Archived from the original on September 8, 2010.
* This may or may not be desirable, for example, if a recipient
^ "Messaging with the GNU Objective-C runtime". Using the GNU Compiler Collection (GCC). Retrieved February 10, 2020.
"Objective-C 2.0: more clues". Lists.apple.com. August 10, 2006. Archived from the original on June 18, 2009. Retrieved May 30, 2010.
^ "Blocks Programming Topics – Mac Developer Library". Apple Inc. March 8, 2011. Archived from the original on June 9, 2012. Retrieved November 28, 2012.
During the design of Objective-C, one of the main concerns was the maintainability of large code bases. Experience from the structured programming world had shown that one of the main ways to improve code was to break it down into smaller pieces. Objective-C borrowed and extended the concept of categories from Smalltalk implementations to help with this process.[25]
Sending the message method to the object pointed to by the pointer obj would require the following code in C++:
Love and Cox eventually formed PPI to commercialize their product, which coupled an Objective-C compiler with class libraries. In 1986, Cox published the main description of Objective-C in its original form in the book Object-Oriented Programming, An Evolutionary Approach. Although he was careful to point out that there is more to the problem of reusability than just what Objective-C provides, the language often found itself compared feature for feature with other languages.
Properties can be accessed using the traditional message passing syntax, dot notation, or, in Key-Value Coding, by name via the "valueForKey:"/"setValue:forKey:" methods.
Cox, Brad J. (1991). Object Oriented Programming: An Evolutionary Approach. Addison Wesley. ISBN 0-201-54834-8.
The interface of a class is usually defined in a header file. A common convention is to name the header file after the name of the class, e.g. Ball.h would contain the interface for the class Ball.
Objective-C is a thin layer atop C and is a "strict superset" of C, meaning that it is possible to compile any C program with an Objective-C compiler and to freely include C language code within an Objective-C class.[12][13][14][15][16][17]
Once an Objective-C class is written, it can be instantiated. This is done by first allocating an uninitialized instance of the class (an object) and then by initializing it. An object is not fully functional until both steps have been completed. These steps should be accomplished with one line of code so that there is never an allocated object that hasn't undergone initialization (and because it is unwise to keep the intermediate result since -init can return a different object than that on which it is called).
Line 2Sends the superclass instance an init message and assigns the result to self (pointer to the current object).
Dalrymple, Mark; Knaster, Scott (June 27, 2012). Learn Objective-C on the Mac. p. 9. ISBN 9781430241881. The .m extension originally stood for "messages" when Objective-C was first introduced, referring to a central feature of Objective-C
Here is an example of a program that demonstrates the basics of forwarding.
Objective-C, like Smalltalk, can use dynamic typing: an object can be sent a message that is not specified in its interface. This can allow for increased flexibility, as it allows an object to "capture" a message and send the message to a different object that can respond to the message appropriately, or likewise send the message on to another object. This behavior is known as message forwarding or delegation (see below). Alternatively, an error handler can be used in case the message cannot be forwarded. If an object does not forward a message, respond to it, or handle an error, then the system will generate a runtime exception.[24]If messages are sent to nil (the null object pointer), they will be silently ignored or raise a generic exception, depending on compiler options.
Methods are written using their interface declarations.Comparing Objective-C and C:
^ Wentk, Richard (2009). Cocoa: Volume 5 of Developer Reference Apple Developer Series. John Wiley and Sons. ISBN 978-0-470-49589-6. Archived from the original on February 16, 2017. Retrieved July 22, 2016.
^ Mike Ash. "Friday Q&A 2013-09-27: ARM64 and You". mikeash.com. Archived from the original on April 26, 2014. Retrieved April 27, 2014.
Apple, Inc. (2009). "Fast Enumeration". apple.com. Archived from the original on December 17, 2009. Retrieved December 31, 2009.
Singh, Amit (December 2003). "A Brief History of Mac OS X". Mac OS X Internals. Archived from the original on May 14, 2012. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
^ Lattner, Chris (June 3, 2014). "Chris Lattner's Homepage". Chris Lattner. Archived from the original on June 4, 2014. Retrieved June 3, 2014. The Swift language is the product of tireless effort from a team of language experts, documentation gurus, compiler optimization ninjas, and an incredibly important internal dogfooding group who provided feedback to help refine and battle-test ideas. Of course, it also greatly benefited from the experiences hard-won by many other languages in the field, drawing ideas from Objective-C, Rust, Haskell, Ruby, Python, C#, CLU, and far too many others to list.
The posing class must not define any new instance variables that are absent from the target class (though it may define or override methods).
^ "Garbage Collection Programming Guide: Introduction to Garbage Collection". Apple Inc. October 3, 2011. Archived from the original on June 9, 2012. Retrieved December 23, 2011.
6Analysis of the language											Toggle Analysis of the language subsection																					6.1Memory management																											6.2Philosophical differences between Objective-C and C++
"Portable Object Compiler". Users.pandora.be. January 1, 1970. Archived from the original on August 2, 2008. Retrieved May 30, 2010.
^ "GNUStep Installer". Archived from the original on February 17, 2018. Retrieved February 14, 2018.
If a class has more than one initialization method, only one of them (the "designated initializer") needs to follow this pattern; others should call the designated initializer instead of the superclass initializer.
"App Frameworks". Apple. June 2014. Archived from the original on February 16, 2019. Retrieved February 13, 2019.
The work to extend GCC was led by Steve Naroff, who joined NeXT from StepStone. The compiler changes were made available as per GPL license terms, but the runtime libraries were not, rendering the open source contribution unusable to the general public.This led to other parties developing such runtime libraries under open source license.Later, Steve Naroff was also principal contributor to work at Apple to build the Objective-C frontend to Clang.
In the C language, the #include pre-compile directive always causes a file's contents to be inserted into the source at that point. Objective-C has the #import directive, equivalent except that each file is included only once per compilation unit, obviating the need for include guards.
After the purchase of NeXT by Apple, attempts were made to make the language more acceptable to programmers more familiar with Java than Smalltalk. One of these attempts was introducing what was dubbed "Modern Syntax" for Objective-C at the time[49] (as opposed to the current, "classic" syntax). There was no change in behaviour, this was merely an alternative syntax. Instead of writing a method invocation like
"GNUStep Installer". Archived from the original on February 17, 2018. Retrieved February 14, 2018.
Generic programming and metaprogramming can be implemented in both languages using runtime polymorphism. In C++ this takes the form of virtual functions and runtime type identification, while Objective-C offers dynamic typing and reflection. Both Objective-C and C++ support compile-time polymorphism (generic functions), with Objective-C only adding this feature in 2015.
The GNU project has, for a long time, been interested in a platform to port NeXT and Obj-C programs to. The ChangeLog for the libobjc directory in GCC suggests that it existed before 1998 (GCC 2.95), and its README further points at a rewrite in 1993 (GCC 2.4).[52]
The Clang compiler suite, part of the LLVM project, implements Objective-C and other languages. After GCC 4.3 (2008) switched to GPLv3, Apple abandoned it in favor of clang, a compiler it has more legal power to modify. As a result, many of the modern Objective-C language features are supported only by Clang.
Objective-C was extended at NeXT to introduce the concept of multiple inheritance of specification, but not implementation, through the introduction of protocols. This is a pattern achievable either as an abstract multiple inherited base class in C++, or as an "interface" (as in Java and C#). Objective-C makes use of ad hoc protocols called informal protocols and compiler-enforced protocols called formal protocols.
Objective-C permits the sending of a message to an object that may not respond. Rather than responding or simply dropping the message, an object can forward the message to an object that can respond. Forwarding can be used to simplify implementation of certain design patterns, such as the observer pattern or the proxy pattern.
"GNUstep: Introduction". GNUstep developers/GNU Project. Archived from the original on August 6, 2012. Retrieved July 29, 2012.
When using Apple LLVM compiler 4.0 or later, arrays and dictionaries (NSArray and NSDictionary classes) can be manipulated using subscripting.[46]Subscripting can be used to retrieve values from indexes (array) or keys (dictionary), and with mutable objects, can also be used to set objects to indexes or keys. In code, subscripting is represented using brackets [ ].[48]
A common criticism is that Objective-C does not have language support for namespaces. Instead, programmers are forced to add prefixes to their class names, which are traditionally shorter than namespace names and thus more prone to collisions. As of 2007, all macOS classes and functions in the Cocoa programming environment are prefixed with "NS" (e.g. NSObject, NSButton) to identify them as belonging to the macOS or iOS core; the "NS" derives from the names of the classes as defined during the development of NeXTSTEP.
Instead of using an NSEnumerator object or indices to iterate through a collection, Objective-C 2.0 offers the fast enumeration syntax. In Objective-C 2.0, the following loops are functionally equivalent, but have different performance traits.
Methods within categories become indistinguishable from the methods in a class when the program is run. A category has full access to all of the instance variables within the class, including private variables.
Apple, Inc. (October 19, 2009). "Avoiding Messaging Errors". The Objective-C Programming Language. Archived from the original on September 8, 2010.
"Kresten Krab Thorup | LinkedIn". www.linkedin.com. Archived from the original on July 15, 2014. Retrieved June 23, 2016.
"The object oriented pre-compiler: programming Smalltalk 80 methods in C language"
"Messaging with the GNU Objective-C runtime". Using the GNU Compiler Collection (GCC). Retrieved February 10, 2020.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
instances of NSLock claim that they will provide an implementation for the two instance methods.
Biancuzzi, Federico; Warden, Shane (2009). Masterminds of Programming. O'Reilly Media, Inc. pp. 242–246. ISBN 978-0-596-51517-1. Archived from the original on February 17, 2017. Retrieved July 22, 2016.
If a category declares a method with the same method signature as an existing method in a class, the category's method is adopted. Thus categories can not only add methods to a class, but also replace existing methods. This feature can be used to fix bugs in other classes by rewriting their methods, or to cause a global change to a class's behavior within a program. If two categories have methods with the same name but different method signatures, it is undefined which category's method is adopted.
"Breadbox Computer Company LLC homepage". Archived from the original on July 27, 2011. Retrieved December 8, 2010.
A class extension has the same syntax as a category declaration with no category name, and the methods and properties declared in it are added directly to the main class. It is mostly used as an alternative to a category to add methods to a class without advertising them in the public headers, with the advantage that for class extensions the compiler checks that all the privately declared methods are actually implemented.[41]
^ Free Software Foundation, Inc. (2011). "GCC 4.6 Release Series – Changes, New Features, and Fixes". Gcc.gnu.org. Archived from the original on December 2, 2013. Retrieved November 27, 2013.
^ Apple, Inc. (August 22, 2006). "Mac OS X Leopard – Xcode 3.0". apple.com. Archived from the original on October 24, 2007. Retrieved August 22, 2006.
The design and implementation of C++ and Objective-C represent fundamentally different approaches to extending C.
Both styles of programming have their strengths and weaknesses. Object-oriented programming in the Simula (C++) style allows multiple inheritance and faster execution by using compile-time binding whenever possible, but it does not support dynamic binding by default. It also forces all methods to have a corresponding implementation unless they are abstract. The Smalltalk-style programming as used in Objective-C allows messages to go unimplemented, with the method resolved to its implementation at runtime. For example, a message may be sent to a collection of objects, to which only some will be expected to respond, without fear of producing runtime errors. Message passing also does not require that an object be defined at compile time. An implementation is still required for the method to be called in the derived object. (See the dynamic typing section below for more advantages of dynamic (late) binding.)
Objective-C declarations may appear only in global scope, not inside a C++ namespace
^ a b "Programming with Objective-C: Values and Collections". Apple Inc. Archived from the original on September 7, 2011. Retrieved October 8, 2012.
The init message performs the set-up of the instance upon creation. The init method is often written as follows:
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.1Popularization through NeXT																											1.2Apple development and Swift
/* because it was copied, it must also be released */
^ "Objective-C 2.0: more clues". Lists.apple.com. August 10, 2006. Archived from the original on June 18, 2009. Retrieved May 30, 2010.
* in turn does not respond to the message, it might do forwarding
"Garbage Collection Programming Guide: Introduction to Garbage Collection". Apple Inc. October 3, 2011. Archived from the original on June 9, 2012. Retrieved December 23, 2011.
"Objective-C Automatic Reference Counting (ARC) — Clang 11 documentation". Clang documentation. Retrieved February 20, 2020. For now, it is sensible to version this document by the releases of its sole implementation (and its host project), clang. "LLVM X.Y" refers to an open-source release of clang from the LLVM project. "Apple X.Y" refers to an Apple-provided release of the Apple LLVM Compiler.
^ "Re: Objective-C 2.0". Lists.apple.com. Archived from the original on November 24, 2010. Retrieved May 30, 2010.
Blocks is a nonstandard extension for Objective-C (and C and C++) that uses special syntax to create closures. Blocks are only supported in Mac OS X 10.6 "Snow Leopard" or later, iOS 4 or later, and GNUstep with libobjc2 1.7 and compiling with clang 3.1 or later.[42]
Objective-C requires that the interface and implementation of a class be in separately declared code blocks. By convention, developers place the interface in a header file and the implementation in a code file. The header files, normally suffixed .h, are similar to C header files while the implementation (method) files, normally suffixed .m, can be very similar to C code files.
Garling, Caleb. "iPhone Coding Language Now World's Third Most Popular". Wired. Archived from the original on September 9, 2013. Retrieved May 20, 2013.
^ "Write Objective-C Code". apple.com. April 23, 2013. Archived from the original on December 24, 2013. Retrieved December 22, 2013.
In Objective-C, all objects are represented as pointers, and static initialization is not allowed. The simplest object is the type that id (objc_obj *) points to, which only has an isa pointer describing its class. Other types from C, like values and structs, are unchanged because they are not part of the object system. This decision differs from the C++ object model, where structs and classes are united.
At the 2006 Worldwide Developers Conference, Apple announced the release of "Objective-C 2.0," a revision of the Objective-C language to include "modern garbage collection, syntax enhancements,[29] runtime performance improvements,[30] and 64-bit support". Mac OS X v10.5, released in October 2007, included an Objective-C 2.0 compiler. GCC 4.6 supports many new Objective-C features, such as declared and synthesized properties, dot syntax, fast enumeration, optional protocol methods, method/protocol/class attributes, class extensions, and a new GNU Objective-C runtime API.[31]
It eliminates the fragile binary interface problem; superclasses can change sizes without affecting binary compatibility.
^ Apple, Inc. (October 19, 2009). "Dynamic Method Resolution". Objective-C Runtime Programming Guide. Archived from the original on September 7, 2010. Retrieved November 25, 2014.
A formal protocol is similar to an interface in Java, C#, and Ada 2005. It is a list of methods that any class can declare itself to implement. Versions of Objective-C before 2.0 required that a class must implement all methods in a protocol it declares itself as adopting; the compiler will emit an error if the class does not implement every method from its declared protocols. Objective-C 2.0 added support for marking certain methods in a protocol optional, and the compiler will not enforce implementation of optional methods.
The Objective-C runtime specifies a pair of methods in Object
The GNU project started work on its free software implementation of Cocoa, named GNUstep, based on the OpenStep standard.[10] Dennis Glatting wrote the first GNU Objective-C runtime in 1992. The GNU Objective-C runtime, which has been in use since 1993, is the one developed by Kresten Krab Thorup when he was a university student in Denmark.[citation needed] Thorup also worked at NeXT from 1993 to 1996.[11]
"GCC 4.6 Release Series – Changes, New Features, and Fixes"
^ "WinObjC on GitHub". GitHub. Archived from the original on December 2, 2017. Retrieved February 13, 2018.
This is analogous to class declarations as used in other object-oriented languages, such as C++ or Python.
When using Apple LLVM compiler 4.0 (Xcode 4.4) or later, arrays, dictionaries, and numbers (NSArray, NSDictionary, NSNumber classes) can also be created using literal syntax instead of methods.[46] (Apple LLVM compiler 4.0 translates to open source LLVM and Clang 3.1.)[47]
"WinObjC on GitHub". GitHub. Archived from the original on December 2, 2017. Retrieved February 13, 2018.
"GCC 4.6 Release Series — Changes, New Features, and Fixes : GNU Project : Free Software Foundation". Gcc.gnu.org. Archived from the original on January 5, 2018. Retrieved December 24, 2017.
// The object we want to forward the message to.
The "method" call is translated by the compiler to the objc_msgSend(id self, SEL op, ...) family of runtime functions. Different implementations handle modern additions like super.[20] In GNU families this function is named objc_msg_sendv, but it has been deprecated in favor of a modern lookup system under objc_msg_lookup.[21]
One can experiment by leaving out the #import "Integer+Arithmetic.h" (line 2) and [num1 add:num2] (line 21) and omitting Integer+Arithmetic.m in compilation. The program will still run. This means that it is possible to mix-and-match added categories if needed; if a category does not need to have some ability, it can simply not be compile in.
After acquiring NeXT in 1996, Apple Computer used OpenStep in its then-new operating system, Mac OS X. This included Objective-C, NeXT's Objective-C-based developer tool, Project Builder, and its interface design tool, Interface Builder. Both were later merged into one application, Xcode. Most of Apple's current Cocoa API is based on OpenStep interface objects and is the most significant Objective-C environment being used for active development.
Objective-C was created primarily by Brad Cox and Tom Love in the early 1980s at their company Productivity Products International (PPI).[5]
A class may only pose as one of its direct or indirect superclasses.
An object wishing to implement forwarding needs only to override the forwarding method with a new method to define the forwarding behavior. The action method performv:: need not be overridden, as this method merely performs an action based on the selector and arguments. Notice the SEL type, which is the type of messages in Objective-C.
This "modern" syntax is no longer supported in current dialects of the Objective-C language.
Method arguments begin with a name labeling the argument that is part of the method name, followed by a colon followed by the expected argument type in parentheses and the argument name. The label can be omitted.
Likewise, the language can be implemented atop extant C compilers (in GCC, first as a preprocessor, then as a module) rather than as a new compiler. This allows Objective-C to leverage the huge existing collection of C code, libraries, tools, etc. Existing C libraries can be wrapped in Objective-C wrappers to provide an OO-style interface. In this aspect, it is similar to GObject library and Vala language, which are widely used in development of GTK applications.
At WWDC 2014, Apple introduced a new language, Swift, which was characterized as "Objective-C without the C".
Delegating methods to other objects and remote invocation can be easily implemented using categories and message forwarding.
However, different from string literals, which compile to constants in the executable, these literals compile to code equivalent to the above method calls. In particular, under manually reference-counted memory management, these objects are autoreleased, which requires added care when e.g., used with function-static variables or other kinds of globals.
Objective-C is a high-level general-purpose, object-oriented programming language that adds Smalltalk-style messaging to the C[3] programming language.Originally developed by Brad Cox and Tom Love in the early 1980s, it was selected by NeXT for its NeXTSTEP operating system.Due to Apple macOS’s direct lineage from NeXTSTEP,[4] Objective-C was the standard programming language used, supported, and promoted by Apple for developing macOS and iOS applications (via their respective APIs, Cocoa and Cocoa Touch) until the introduction of the Swift programming language in 2014.[3]
"GNU Objective-C runtime API". Using GCC. Retrieved January 6, 2020.
"Transitioning to ARC Release Notes". Apple Inc. July 17, 2012. Archived from the original on June 9, 2012. Retrieved August 26, 2012.
A C++ class cannot derive from an Objective-C class and vice versa.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Runtime Versions and Platforms". Developer.apple.com. Archived from the original on July 20, 2016. Retrieved December 24, 2017.
^ "Source Browser: objc4, 756.2". Apple Open Source. Retrieved January 6, 2020.
Garbage collection was deprecated in Mac OS X v10.8 in favor of Automatic Reference Counting (ARC).[37]Objective-C on iOS 7 running on ARM64 uses 19 bits out of a 64-bit word to store the reference count, as a form of tagged pointers.[38][39]
"Write Objective-C Code". apple.com. April 23, 2013. Archived from the original on December 24, 2013. Retrieved December 22, 2013.
In the above statement, foo may be an instance of any class that conforms to the NSCopying protocol.
"Transitioning to ARC Release Notes". iOS Developer Library. Developer.apple.com. Archived from the original on September 7, 2011. Retrieved April 16, 2014.
However, internal names of the function are rarely used directly. Generally, messages are converted to function calls defined in the Objective-C runtime library. It is not necessarily known at link time which method will be called because the class of the receiver (the object being sent the message) need not be known until runtime.
Furthermore, the methods within a category are added to a class at run-time. Thus, categories permit the programmer to add methods to an existing class - an open class - without the need to recompile that class or even have access to its source code. For example, if a system does not contain a spell checker in its String implementation, it could be added without modifying the String source code.
The PC GEOS system used a programming language known as GEOS Objective-C or goc;[51] despite the name similarity, the two languages are similar only in overall concept and the use of keywords prefixed with an @ sign.
Besides the GCC/NeXT/Apple implementation, which added several extensions to the original Stepstone implementation, another free, open-source Objective-C implementation called the Portable Object Compiler also exists.[50] The set of extensions implemented by the Portable Object Compiler differs from the GCC/NeXT/Apple implementation; in particular, it includes Smalltalk-like blocks for Objective-C, while it lacks protocols and categories, two features used extensively in OpenStep and its derivatives and relatives. Overall, POC represents an older, pre-NeXT stage in the language's evolution, roughly conformant to Brad Cox's 1991 book.
Objective-C 2.0 introduces a new syntax to declare instance variables as properties, with optional attributes to configure the generation of accessor methods. Properties are, in a sense, public instance variables; that is, declaring an instance variable as a property provides external classes with access (possibly limited, e.g. read only) to that property. A property may be declared as "readonly", and may be provided with storage semantics such as assign, copy or retain. By default, properties are considered atomic, which results in a lock preventing multiple threads from accessing them at the same time. A property can be declared as nonatomic, which removes this lock.
With ARC, the compiler inserts retain and release calls automatically into Objective-C code based on static code analysis. The automation relieves the programmer of having to write in memory management code. ARC also adds weak references to the Objective-C language.[57]
^ Dalrymple, Mark; Knaster, Scott (June 27, 2012). Learn Objective-C on the Mac. p. 9. ISBN 9781430241881. The .m extension originally stood for "messages" when Objective-C was first introduced, referring to a central feature of Objective-C
"Using C++ With Objective-C". Mac OS X Reference Library. Archived from the original on September 5, 2010. Retrieved February 10, 2010.
^ "Objective-C Runtime Programming Guide". Apple Inc. Archived from the original on April 4, 2014. Retrieved October 21, 2013.
"Transitioning to ARC". Apple Inc. Archived from the original on September 7, 2011. Retrieved October 8, 2012.
* Observe forwarder does not respond to a hello message! It will
^ Singh, Amit (December 2003). "A Brief History of Mac OS X". Mac OS X Internals. Archived from the original on May 14, 2012. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
Objective-C programs developed for non-Apple operating systems or that are not dependent on Apple's APIs may also be compiled for any platform supported by GNU GCC or LLVM/Clang.
Posing, similarly with categories, allows global augmentation of existing classes. Posing permits two features absent from categories:
Also, some classes implement class method initializers. Like +new, they combine +alloc and -init, but unlike +new, they return an autoreleased instance. Some class method initializers take parameters:
"Objective-C Literals — Clang 3.5 documentation". Clang.llvm.org. Archived from the original on June 6, 2014. Retrieved April 16, 2014.
"Common Lisp and Readline". GitHub. Archived from the original on September 6, 2014. Retrieved September 15, 2014. The issue first arose when NeXT proposed to distribute a modified GCC in two parts and let the user link them.Jobs asked me whether this was lawful.It seemed to me at the time that it was, following reasoning like what you are using; but since the result was very undesirable for free software, I said I would have to ask the lawyer.What the lawyer said surprised me; he said that judges would consider such schemes to be "subterfuges" and would be very harsh toward them.He said a judge would ask whether it is "really" one program, rather than how it is labeled.So I went back to Jobs and said we believed his plan was not allowed by the GPL.The direct result of this is that we now have an Objective C front end.They had wanted to distribute the Objective C parser as a separate proprietary package to link with the GCC back end, but since I didn't agree this was allowed, they made it free.
It also includes a runtime library called ObjectPak, which is based on Cox's original ICPak101 library (which in turn derives from the Smalltalk-80 class library), and is quite radically different from the OpenStep FoundationKit.
In the above, plus signs denote class methods, or methods that can be called on the class itself (not on an instance), and minus signs denote instance methods, which can only be called on a particular instance of the class. Class methods also have no access to instance variables.
A class must be declared to implement that protocol to be said to conform to it. This is detectable at runtime. Formal protocols cannot provide any implementations; they simply assure callers that classes that conform to the protocol will provide implementations. In the NeXT/Apple library, protocols are frequently used by the Distributed Objects system to represent the abilities of an object executing on a remote system.
This example builds up an Integer class, by defining first a basic class with only accessor methods implemented, and adding two categories, Arithmetic and Display, which extend the basic class. While categories can access the base class's private data members, it is often good practice to access these private data members through the accessor methods, which helps keep categories more independent from the base class. Implementing such accessors is one typical use of categories. Another is to use categories to add methods to the base class. However, it is not regarded as good practice to use categories for subclass overriding, also known as monkey patching. Informal protocols are implemented as a category on the base NSObject class. By convention, files containing categories that extend base classes will take the name BaseClass+ExtensionClass.h.
Since Objective-C is a strict superset of C, it does not treat C primitive types as first-class objects.
Objective-C 2.0 provides non-fragile instance variables where supported by the runtime (i.e. when building code for 64-bit macOS, and all iOS). Under the modern runtime, an extra layer of indirection is added to instance variable access, allowing the dynamic linker to adjust instance layout at runtime. This feature allows for two important improvements to Objective-C code:
^ a b "GCC 4.6 Release Series — Changes, New Features, and Fixes : GNU Project : Free Software Foundation". Gcc.gnu.org. Archived from the original on January 5, 2018. Retrieved December 24, 2017.
Mike Ash. "Friday Q&A 2013-09-27: ARM64 and You". mikeash.com. Archived from the original on April 26, 2014. Retrieved April 27, 2014.
^ a b "Objective-C Automatic Reference Counting (ARC) — Clang 11 documentation". Clang documentation. Retrieved February 20, 2020. For now, it is sensible to version this document by the releases of its sole implementation (and its host project), clang. "LLVM X.Y" refers to an open-source release of clang from the LLVM project. "Apple X.Y" refers to an Apple-provided release of the Apple LLVM Compiler.
^ Lee, Keith (September 3, 2013). Pro Objective-C. Apress. ISBN 9781430250500. Archived from the original on May 14, 2018. Retrieved December 24, 2017 – via Google Books.
4.2Objective-C 2.0																								4.2.1Garbage collection																											4.2.2Properties																											4.2.3Non-fragile instance variables																											4.2.4Fast enumeration																											4.2.5Class extensions																											4.2.6Implications for Cocoa development
@"Access by message (%@), dot notation(%@), property name(% @) and "
In order to use dot notation to invoke property accessors within an instance method, the "self" keyword should be used:
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Runtime Versions and Platforms". Developer.apple.com. Archived from the original on July 20, 2016. Retrieved December 24, 2017.
^ "Breadbox Computer Company LLC homepage". Archived from the original on July 27, 2011. Retrieved December 8, 2010.
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
The mulle-objc project is another re-implementation of Objective-C. It supports GCC or Clang/LLVM compilers as backends. It diverges from other runtimes in terms of syntax, semantics and ABI compatibility. It supports Linux, FreeBSD, and Windows.
In the above statement, foo may be of any class.
All Objective-C applications developed for macOS that make use of the above improvements for Objective-C 2.0 are incompatible with all operating systems prior to 10.5 (Leopard). Since fast enumeration does not generate exactly the same binaries as standard enumeration, its use will cause an application to crash on Mac OS X version 10.4 or earlier.
"Tags for Objective-C Headers". Archived from the original on April 1, 2017. Retrieved February 11, 2018. Objective-C is a superset of C
The code above is roughly equivalent to the following C++ interface:
A derivative of the interface definition is the category, which allows one to add methods to existing classes.[22]
^ Cox, Brad (1983). "The object oriented pre-compiler: programming Smalltalk 80 methods in C language". ACM SIGPLAN Notices. New York, NY: ACM. 18 (1). doi:10.1145/948093.948095. S2CID 6975032. Retrieved February 17, 2011.
The C# and Visual Basic.NET languages implement superficially similar functionality in the form of extension methods, but these lack access to the private variables of the class.[26] Ruby and several other dynamic programming languages refer to the technique as "monkey patching".
This page was last edited on 19 February 2023, at 12:53 (UTC).
For the versions still supporting posing, all messages sent to the target class are instead received by the posing class. There are several restrictions:
"Examining Objective-C". Archived from the original on September 4, 2014. Retrieved September 4, 2014. Objective-C is an object-oriented strict superset of C
"Blocks Programming Topics – Mac Developer Library". Apple Inc. March 8, 2011. Archived from the original on June 9, 2012. Retrieved November 28, 2012.
^ "Transitioning to ARC". Apple Inc. Archived from the original on September 7, 2011. Retrieved October 8, 2012.
"Re: Objective-C 2.0". Lists.apple.com. Archived from the original on November 24, 2010. Retrieved May 30, 2010.
Objective-C source code 'messaging/implementation' program files usually have .mw-parser-output .monospaced{font-family:monospace,monospace}.m filename extensions, while Objective-C 'header/interface' files have .h extensions, the same as C header files. Objective-C++ files are denoted with a .mm file extension.
^ "Using C++ With Objective-C". Mac OS X Reference Library. Archived from the original on September 5, 2010. Retrieved February 10, 2010.
^ "Transitioning to ARC Release Notes". iOS Developer Library. Developer.apple.com. Archived from the original on September 7, 2011. Retrieved April 16, 2014.
Logtalk implements a concept of categories (as first-class entities) that subsumes Objective-C categories functionality (Logtalk categories can also be used as fine-grained units of composition when defining e.g. new classes or prototypes; in particular, a Logtalk category can be virtually imported by any number of classes and prototypes).
A posing class can call overridden methods through super, thus incorporating the implementation of the target class.
Properties are implemented by way of the @synthesize keyword, which generates getter (and setter, if not read-only) methods according to the property declaration. Alternatively, the getter and setter methods must be implemented explicitly, or the @dynamic keyword can be used to indicate that accessor methods will be provided by other means. When compiled using clang 3.1 or higher, all properties which are not explicitly declared with @dynamic, marked readonly or have complete user-implemented getter and setter will be automatically implicitly @synthesize'd.
The first versions of Objective-C did not support garbage collection. At the time this decision was a matter of some debate, and many people considered long "dead times" (when Smalltalk performed collection) to render the entire system unusable. Some 3rd party implementations have added this feature (most notably GNUstep using Boehm), and Apple has implemented it as of Mac OS X v10.5.[56] However, in more recent versions of macOS and iOS, garbage collection has been deprecated in favor of Automatic Reference Counting (ARC), introduced in 2011.
"Clang Language Extensions — Clang 3.5 documentation". Clang.llvm.org. Archived from the original on February 24, 2014. Retrieved April 16, 2014.
Cox, Brad (1983). "The object oriented pre-compiler: programming Smalltalk 80 methods in C language". ACM SIGPLAN Notices. New York, NY: ACM. 18 (1). doi:10.1145/948093.948095. S2CID 6975032. Retrieved February 17, 2011.
"AppScan Source 8.7 now available". Archived from the original on February 3, 2017. Retrieved February 11, 2018. The Objective-C programming language is a superset of the C programming language
Wentk, Richard (2009). Cocoa: Volume 5 of Developer Reference Apple Developer Series. John Wiley and Sons. ISBN 978-0-470-49589-6. Archived from the original on February 16, 2017. Retrieved July 22, 2016.
"Source Browser: objc4, 756.2". Apple Open Source. Retrieved January 6, 2020.
^ "ACM SIGGRAPH 1983 Issue 8 - Smalltalk". Archived from the original on 15 April 2009. Retrieved 7 October 2008.
Line 3Checks if the returned object pointer is valid before performing any initialization.
Microsoft forked libobjc2 into a part of WinObjC, the iOS bridge for Universal Windows Platform, in 2015. Combined with its own implementation of Cocoa Touch and underlying APIs, the project allows the reuse of iOS Application code inside of UWP apps.[54]
Objective-C permits a class to wholly replace another class within a program. The replacing class is said to "pose as" the target class.
^ "Portable Object Compiler". Users.pandora.be. January 1, 1970. Archived from the original on August 2, 2008. Retrieved May 30, 2010.
^ "Objective-C Boot Camp". Archived from the original on February 11, 2018. Retrieved February 11, 2018. Objective-C is a strict superset of ANSI C
Apple, Inc. (October 19, 2009). "Dynamic Method Resolution". Objective-C Runtime Programming Guide. Archived from the original on September 7, 2010. Retrieved November 25, 2014.
Objective-C today is often used in tandem with a fixed library of standard objects (often known as a "kit" or "framework"), such as Cocoa, GNUstep or ObjFW. These libraries often come with the operating system: the GNUstep libraries often come with Linux-based distributions and Cocoa comes with macOS. The programmer is not forced to inherit functionality from the existing base class (NSObject / OFObject). Objective-C allows for the declaration of new root classes that do not inherit any existing functionality. Originally, Objective-C-based programming environments typically offered an Object class as the base class from which almost all other classes inherited. With the introduction of OpenStep, NeXT created a new base class named NSObject, which offered additional features over Object (an emphasis on using object references and reference counting instead of raw pointers, for example). Almost all classes in Cocoa inherit from NSObject.
The Objective-C model of object-oriented programming is based on message passing to object instances. In Objective-C one does not call a method; one sends a message. This is unlike the Simula-style programming model used by C++. The difference between these two concepts is in how the code referenced by the method or message name is executed. In a Simula-style language, the method name is in most cases bound to a section of code in the target class by the compiler. In Smalltalk and Objective-C, the target of a message is resolved at runtime, with the receiving object itself interpreting the message. A method is identified by a selector or SEL — a unique identifier for each message name, often just a NUL-terminated string representing its name — and resolved to a C method pointer implementing it: an IMP.[18] A consequence of this is that the message-passing system has no type checking. The object to which the message is directed — the receiver — is not guaranteed to respond to a message, and if it does not, it raises an exception.[19]
Leading up to the creation of their company, both had been introduced to Smalltalk while at ITT Corporation's Programming Technology Center in 1981. The earliest work on Objective-C traces back to around that time.[6] Cox was intrigued by problems of true reusability in software design and programming. He realized that a language like Smalltalk would be invaluable in building development environments for system developers at ITT. However, he and Tom Love also recognized that backward compatibility with C was critically important in ITT's telecom engineering milieu.[7]
^ "Tags for Objective-C Headers". Archived from the original on April 1, 2017. Retrieved February 11, 2018. Objective-C is a superset of C
"Programming with Objective-C: Values and Collections". Apple Inc. Archived from the original on September 7, 2011. Retrieved October 8, 2012.
^ Biancuzzi, Federico; Warden, Shane (2009). Masterminds of Programming. O'Reilly Media, Inc. pp. 242–246. ISBN 978-0-596-51517-1. Archived from the original on February 17, 2017. Retrieved July 22, 2016.
^ Stajkovic, Alexander D.; Luthans, Fred (September 1998). "Self-efficacy and work-related performance: a meta-analysis". Psychological Bulletin. 124 (2): 240–261. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.124.2.240.
^ a b c d e f g Deckers, Lambert (2018). Motivation: biological, psychological, and environmental (5th ed.). New York: Routledge. ISBN 9781138036321. OCLC 1009183545.
Brunstein, Joachim C (November 1993). "Personal goals and subjective well-being: a longitudinal study". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 65 (5): 1061–1070. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.65.5.1061.
Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, and challengers
^ Rasmussen, Jens; Lind, Morten (1982). "A model of human decision making in complex systems and its use for design of system control strategies" (PDF). Proceedings of the 1982 American Control Conference: Sheraton National Hotel, Arlington, Virginia, June 14–16, 1982. New York: American Automatic Control Council. OCLC 761373599. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2015-02-06. Retrieved 2015-02-06. Cited in: Wrench, Jason S (2013). "Communicating within the modern workplace: challenges and prospects".In Wrench, Jason S (ed.). Workplace communication for the 21st century: tools and strategies that impact the bottom line. Santa Barbara, CA: Praeger. pp. 1–38. ISBN 978-0313396311. OCLC 773022358.
McGregor, Ian; Little, Brian R (February 1998). "Personal projects, happiness, and meaning: on doing well and being yourself". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 74 (2): 494–512. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.74.2.494. PMID 9491589.
Goal setting and planning ("goal work") promotes long-term vision, intermediate mission and short-term motivation. It focuses intention, desire, acquisition of knowledge, and helps to organize resources.
^ Emmons, Robert A (1996). "Striving and feeling: personal goals and subjective well-being".In Gollwitzer, Peter M; Bargh, John A (eds.). The psychology of action: linking cognition and motivation to behavior. New York: Guilford Press. pp. 313–337. ISBN 978-1572300323. OCLC 33103979.
Organizational goal-management aims for individual employee goals and objectives to align with the vision and strategic goals of the entire organization. Goal-management provides organizations with a mechanism[which?] to effectively communicate corporate goals and strategic objectives to each person across the entire organization.[citation needed] The key consists of having it all emanate from a pivotal source and providing each person with a clear, consistent organizational-goal message, so that every employee understands how their efforts contribute to an enterprise's success.[citation needed]
Creating & delivering your value proposition: managing customer experience for profit
Moskowitz, Gordon B; Heidi Grant Halvorson, eds. (2009). The psychology of goals. New York: Guilford Press. ISBN 9781606230299. OCLC 234434698.
In organizations, goal management consists of the process of recognizing or inferring goals of individual team-members, abandoning goals that are no longer relevant, identifying and resolving conflicts among goals, and prioritizing goals consistently for optimal team-collaboration and effective operations.
Locke, E. A., Chah, D., Harrison, S. & Lustgarten, N. (1989). "Separating the effects of goal specificity from goal level". Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes. 43 (2): 270–287. doi:10.1016/0749-5978(89)90053-8.{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
^ Brunstein, Joachim C (November 1993). "Personal goals and subjective well-being: a longitudinal study". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 65 (5): 1061–1070. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.65.5.1061.
Individuals can set personal goals: a student may set a goal of a high mark in an exam; an athlete might run five miles a day; a traveler might try to reach a destination city within three hours; an individual might try to reach financial goals such as saving for retirement or saving for a purchase.
^ Barnes, Cindy; Blake, Helen; Pinder, David (2009). Creating & delivering your value proposition: managing customer experience for profit. London; Philadelphia: Kogan Page. ISBN 9780749455125. OCLC 320800660.
Product goals: this refers to supplying an outstanding value proposition compared to other products - perhaps due to factors such as quality, design, reliability and novelty[23]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Locke, Edwin A.; Latham, Gary P. (1990). A theory of goal setting & task performance. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall. ISBN 978-0139131387. OCLC 20219875.
^ Wrosch, Carsten; Scheier, Michael F.; Miller, Gregory E. (2013-12-01). "Goal Adjustment Capacities, Subjective Well-Being, and Physical Health". Social and Personality Psychology Compass. 7 (12): 847–860. doi:10.1111/spc3.12074. ISSN 1751-9004. PMC 4145404. PMID 25177358.
Emmons, Robert A (1996). "Striving and feeling: personal goals and subjective well-being".In Gollwitzer, Peter M; Bargh, John A (eds.). The psychology of action: linking cognition and motivation to behavior. New York: Guilford Press. pp. 313–337. ISBN 978-1572300323. OCLC 33103979.
^ Sheldon, Kennon M; Kasser, Tim (December 1998). "Pursuing personal goals: skills enable progress but not all progress is beneficial" (PDF). Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin. 24 (12): 1319–1331. doi:10.1177/01461672982412006. S2CID 143050092.
A goal is an idea of the future or desired result that a person or a group of people envision, plan and commit to achieve.[1] People endeavour to reach goals within a finite time by setting deadlines.
^ a b Karen Kirst-Ashman, Human Behavior, Communities, Organizations, and Groups in the Macro Social Environment (2007), p. 112.
^ Ryan, Richard M (January 2000). "Self-determination theory and the facilitation of intrinsic motivation, social development, and well-being" (PDF). American Psychologist. 55 (1): 68–78. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.529.4370. doi:10.1037/0003-066x.55.1.68. PMID 11392867.
goals indirectly lead to arousal, and to discovery and use of task-relevant knowledge and strategies
Elliott, Andrew J; Sheldon, Kennon M (November 1998). "Avoidance personal goals and the personality–illness relationship". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 75 (5): 1282–1299. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.433.3924. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.75.5.1282. PMID 9866188.
^ Locke, E. A., Chah, D., Harrison, S. & Lustgarten, N. (1989). "Separating the effects of goal specificity from goal level". Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes. 43 (2): 270–287. doi:10.1016/0749-5978(89)90053-8.{{cite journal}}:CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Secondary goals: this refers to goals which an organization does not regard as priorities[citation needed]
Importance is determined by a goal's attractiveness, intensity, relevance, priority, and sign.[10][page needed] Importance can range from high to low.
"Personal projects, happiness, and meaning: on doing well and being yourself"
Long-term achievements rely on short-term achievements. Emotional control over the small moments of the single day can make a big difference in the long term.
^ Miner, J. B. (2003). "The rated importance, scientific validity, and practical usefulness of organizational behavior theories: A quantitative review". Academy of Management Learning & Education. 2 (3): 250–268. doi:10.5465/amle.2003.10932132.
Achieving complex and difficult goals requires focus, long-term diligence, and effort (see Goal pursuit). Success in any field requires forgoing excuses and justifications for poor performance or lack of adequate planning; in short, success requires emotional maturity. The measure of belief that people have in their ability to achieve a personal goal also affects that achievement.
Those who attain self-concordant goals reap greater well-being benefits from their attainment. Attainment-to-well-being effects are mediated by need satisfaction, i.e., daily activity-based experiences of autonomy, competence, and relatedness that accumulate during the period of striving. The model is shown to provide a satisfactory fit to 3 longitudinal data sets and to be independent of the effects of self-efficacy, implementation intentions, avoidance framing, and life skills.[19]
Specificity is determined if the goal is qualitative and ranges from being vague to precisely stated.[10][page needed] Typically, a higher-level goal is vaguer than a lower level subgoal; for example, wanting to have a successful career is vaguer than wanting to obtain a master's degree.
Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until conditions to do so are met.
Stajkovic, Alexander D.; Luthans, Fred (September 1998). "Self-efficacy and work-related performance: a meta-analysis". Psychological Bulletin. 124 (2): 240–261. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.124.2.240.
Jens Rasmussen and Morten Lind distinguish three fundamental categories of goals related to technological system management. These are:[21]
Level of consciousness refers to a person's cognitive awareness of a goal. Awareness is typically greater for proximal goals than for distal goals.[10][page needed]
^ Stajkovic, Alexander D.; Locke, Edwin A.; Blair, Eden S. (September 2006). "A first examination of the relationships between primed subconscious goals, assigned conscious goals, and task performance". Journal of Applied Psychology. 91 (5): 1172–1180. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.91.5.1172. PMID 16953778.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Locke, Edwin A.; Latham, Gary P. (1990). A theory of goal setting & task performance. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall. ISBN 978-0139131387. OCLC 20219875.
Gollwitzer, Peter M (1990). "Action phases and mind-sets" (PDF).In Higgins, E Tory; Sorrentino, Richard M (eds.). Handbook of motivation and cognition: foundations of social behavior. Vol. 2. New York: Guilford Press. pp. 53–92. ISBN 978-0898624328. OCLC 12837968.
Sheldon, Kennon M; Kasser, Tim (December 1998). "Pursuing personal goals: skills enable progress but not all progress is beneficial" (PDF). Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin. 24 (12): 1319–1331. doi:10.1177/01461672982412006. S2CID 143050092.
Sheldon, Ken M; Eliott, Andrew J (March 1999). "Goal striving, need satisfaction and longitudinal well-being: the self-concordance model" (PDF). Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 76 (3): 482–497. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.76.3.482. PMID 10101878.
Efficient goal work includes recognizing and resolving all guilt, inner conflict or limiting belief that might cause one to sabotage one's efforts. By setting clearly-defined goals, one can subsequently measure and take pride in the accomplishment of those goals. One can see progress in what might have seemed a long, perhaps difficult, grind.
Ryan, Richard M (January 2000). "Self-determination theory and the facilitation of intrinsic motivation, social development, and well-being" (PDF). American Psychologist. 55 (1): 68–78. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.529.4370. doi:10.1037/0003-066x.55.1.68. PMID 11392867.
Osterwalder, Alexander; Pigneur, Yves; Clark, Tim (2010). Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, and challengers. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 9780470876411. OCLC 648031756.
^ McGregor, Ian; Little, Brian R (February 1998). "Personal projects, happiness, and meaning: on doing well and being yourself". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 74 (2): 494–512. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.74.2.494. PMID 9491589.
"Goal striving, need satisfaction, and longitudinal well-being: the self-concordance model"
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
^ a b c d e Locke, Edwin A.; Latham, Gary P. (September 2002) [2002]. "Building a practically useful theory of goal setting and task motivation: a 35-year odyssey". American Psychologist. 57 (9): 705–717. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.126.9922. doi:10.1037/0003-066X.57.9.705. PMID 12237980.
Rasmussen, Jens; Lind, Morten (1982). "A model of human decision making in complex systems and its use for design of system control strategies" (PDF). Proceedings of the 1982 American Control Conference: Sheraton National Hotel, Arlington, Virginia, June 14–16, 1982. New York: American Automatic Control Council. OCLC 761373599. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2015-02-06. Retrieved 2015-02-06. Cited in: Wrench, Jason S (2013). "Communicating within the modern workplace: challenges and prospects".In Wrench, Jason S (ed.). Workplace communication for the 21st century: tools and strategies that impact the bottom line. Santa Barbara, CA: Praeger. pp. 1–38. ISBN 978-0313396311. OCLC 773022358.
Miner, J. B. (2003). "The rated importance, scientific validity, and practical usefulness of organizational behavior theories: A quantitative review". Academy of Management Learning & Education. 2 (3): 250–268. doi:10.5465/amle.2003.10932132.
Wrosch, Carsten; Scheier, Michael F.; Miller, Gregory E. (2013-12-01). "Goal Adjustment Capacities, Subjective Well-Being, and Physical Health". Social and Personality Psychology Compass. 7 (12): 847–860. doi:10.1111/spc3.12074. ISSN 1751-9004. PMC 4145404. PMID 25177358.
^ Osterwalder, Alexander; Pigneur, Yves; Clark, Tim (2010). Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, and challengers. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 9780470876411. OCLC 648031756.
Creek, Jennifer; Lougher, Lesley (2008). "Goal setting". Occupational therapy and mental health (4th ed.). Edinburgh; New York: Churchill Livingstone Elsevier. pp. 111–113 (112). ISBN 9780443100277. OCLC 191890638. Client goals are usually set on two or three levels. Long-term goals are the overall goals of the intervention, the reasons why the client is being offered help, and the expected outcome of intervention... Intermediate goals may be clusters of skills to be developed, attitudes to be changed or barriers to be overcome on the way to achieving the main goals... Short-term goals are the small steps on the way to achieving major goals.
Deckers, Lambert (2018). Motivation: biological, psychological, and environmental (5th ed.). New York: Routledge. ISBN 9781138036321. OCLC 1009183545.
Karen Kirst-Ashman, Human Behavior, Communities, Organizations, and Groups in the Macro Social Environment (2007), p. 112.
Consumer goals: this refers to supplying a product or service that the market/consumer wants[22]
There has been a lot of research conducted looking at the link between achieving desired goals, changes to self-efficacy and integrity and ultimately changes to subjective well-being.[12] Goal efficacy refers to how likely an individual is to succeed in achieving their goal. Goal integrity refers to how consistent one's goals are with core aspects of the self. Research has shown that a focus on goal efficacy is associated with happiness, a factor of well-being, and goal integrity is associated with meaning (psychology), another factor of well-being.[13] Multiple studies have shown the link between achieving long-term goals and changes in subjective well-being; most research shows that achieving goals that hold personal meaning to an individual increases feelings of subjective well-being.[14][15][16]
Stajkovic, Alexander D.; Locke, Edwin A.; Blair, Eden S. (September 2006). "A first examination of the relationships between primed subconscious goals, assigned conscious goals, and task performance". Journal of Applied Psychology. 91 (5): 1172–1180. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.91.5.1172. PMID 16953778.
Goal-setting theory was formulated based on empirical research and has been called one of the most important theories in organizational psychology.[2] Edwin A. Locke and Gary P. Latham, the fathers of goal-setting theory, provided a comprehensive review of the core findings of the theory in 2002.[3] In summary, Locke and Latham found that specific, difficult goals lead to higher performance than either easy goals or instructions to "do your best", as long as feedback about progress is provided, the person is committed to the goal, and the person has the ability and knowledge to perform the task.[4]
Goal displacement occurs when the original goals of an entity or organization are replaced over time by different goals. In some instances, this creates problems, because the new goals may exceed the capacity of the mechanisms put in place to meet the original goals. New goals adopted by an organization may also increasingly become focused on internal concerns, such as establishing and enforcing structures for reducing common employee disputes.[24] In some cases, the original goals of the organization become displaced in part by repeating behaviors that become traditional within the organization. For example, a company that manufactures widgets may decide to do seek good publicity by putting on a fundraising drive for a popular charity or by having a tent at a local county fair. If the fundraising drive or county fair tent is successful, the company may choose to make this an annual tradition, and may eventually involve more and more employees and resources in the new goal of raising the most charitable funds or of having the best county fair tent. In some cases, goals are displaced because the initial problem is resolved or the initial goal becomes impossible to pursue. A famous example is the March of Dimes, which began as an organization to fund the fight against polio, but once that disease was effectively brought under control by the polio vaccine, transitioned to being an organization for combating birth defects.[24]
^ Gollwitzer, P. M. (2012). Mindset theory of action phases. In P. A. M. Van Lange. A. W. Kruglanski, & E. T. Handbook of motivation science (pp. 235–250). New York: Guilford Press.
^ Grant, Anthony M (September 2012). "An integrated model of goal-focused coaching: an evidence-based framework for teaching and practice" (PDF). International Coaching Psychology Review. 7 (2): 146–165 (147). doi:10.53841/bpsicpr.2012.7.2.146. S2CID 255938190. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-11-29. Whilst the ideas represented by the acronym SMART are indeed broadly supported by goal theory (e.g. Locke, 1996), and the acronym SMART may well be useful in some instances in coaching practice, I think that the widespread belief that goals are synonymous with SMART action plans has done much to stifle the development of a more sophisticated understanding and use of goal theory within in the coaching community, and this point has important implications for coaching research, teaching and practice.
Grant, Anthony M (September 2012). "An integrated model of goal-focused coaching: an evidence-based framework for teaching and practice" (PDF). International Coaching Psychology Review. 7 (2): 146–165 (147). doi:10.53841/bpsicpr.2012.7.2.146. S2CID 255938190. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-11-29. Whilst the ideas represented by the acronym SMART are indeed broadly supported by goal theory (e.g. Locke, 1996), and the acronym SMART may well be useful in some instances in coaching practice, I think that the widespread belief that goals are synonymous with SMART action plans has done much to stifle the development of a more sophisticated understanding and use of goal theory within in the coaching community, and this point has important implications for coaching research, teaching and practice.
Goals can be long-term, intermediate, or short-term. The primary difference is the time required to achieve them.[8] Short-term goals are expect to be finished in a relatively short period of time, long-term goals in a long period of time, and intermediate in a medium period of time.
Mager, Robert Frank (1997) [1972]. Goal analysis: how to clarify your goals so you can actually achieve them (3rd ed.). Atlanta, GA: Center for Effective Performance. ISBN 978-1879618046. OCLC 37435274.
1Goal setting											Toggle Goal setting subsection																					1.1Mindset theory of action phases
Sheldon, Kennon M; Elliot, Andrew J (March 1999). "Goal striving, need satisfaction, and longitudinal well-being: the self-concordance model" (PDF). Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 76 (3): 482–497. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.76.3.482. PMID 10101878.
"Self-determination theory and the facilitation of intrinsic motivation, social development, and well-being"
Certain characteristics of a goal help define the goal and determine an individual's motivation to achieve that goal. The characteristics of a goal make it possible to determine what motivates people to achieve a goal, and, along with other personal characteristics, may predict goal achievement.[citation needed]
^ Sheldon, Ken M; Eliott, Andrew J (March 1999). "Goal striving, need satisfaction and longitudinal well-being: the self-concordance model" (PDF). Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 76 (3): 482–497. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.76.3.482. PMID 10101878.
Goals that are pursued to fulfill intrinsic values or to support an individual's self-concept are called self-concordant goals. Self-concordant goals fulfill basic needs and align with what psychoanalyst Donald Winnicott called an individual's "True Self". Because these goals have personal meaning to an individual and reflect an individual's self-identity, self-concordant goals are more likely to receive sustained effort over time. In contrast, goals that do not reflect an individual's internal drive and are pursued due to external factors (e.g. social pressures) emerge from a non-integrated region of a person, and are therefore more likely to be abandoned when obstacles occur.[18]
Some coaches recommend establishing specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bounded (SMART) objectives, but not all researchers agree that these SMART criteria are necessary.[6] The SMART framework does not include goal difficulty as a criterion; in the goal-setting theory of Locke and Latham, it is recommended to choose goals within the 90th percentile of difficulty, based on the average prior performance of those that have performed the task.[7][3]
^ Elliott, Andrew J; Sheldon, Kennon M (November 1998). "Avoidance personal goals and the personality–illness relationship". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 75 (5): 1282–1299. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.433.3924. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.75.5.1282. PMID 9866188.
Locke, Edwin A.; Latham, Gary P. (September 2002) [2002]. "Building a practically useful theory of goal setting and task motivation: a 35-year odyssey". American Psychologist. 57 (9): 705–717. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.126.9922. doi:10.1037/0003-066X.57.9.705. PMID 12237980.
"A model of human decision making in complex systems and its use for design of system control strategies"
Before an individual can set out to achieve a goal, they must first decide on what their desired end-state will be. Peter Gollwitzer's mindset theory of action phases proposes that there are two phases in which an individual must go through if they wish to achieve a goal.[9] For the first phase, the individual will mentally select their goal by specifying the criteria and deciding on which goal they will set based on their commitment to seeing it through. The second phase is the planning phase, in which the individual will decide which set of behaviors are at their disposal and will allow them to best reach their desired end-state or goal.[10]: 342–348
"Goal striving, need satisfaction and longitudinal well-being: the self-concordance model"
Barnes, Cindy; Blake, Helen; Pinder, David (2009). Creating & delivering your value proposition: managing customer experience for profit. London; Philadelphia: Kogan Page. ISBN 9780749455125. OCLC 320800660.
3Personal goals											Toggle Personal goals subsection																					3.1Achieving personal goals																											3.2Personal goal achievement and happiness
The self-concordance model is a model that looks at the sequence of steps that occur from the commencement of a goal to attaining that goal.[17] It looks at the likelihood and impact of goal achievement based on the type of goal and meaning of the goal to the individual.[citation needed] Different types of goals impact both goal achievement and the sense of subjective well-being brought about by achieving the goal. The model breaks down factors that promote, first, striving to achieve a goal, then achieving a goal, and then the factors that connect goal achievement to changes in subjective well-being.
A goal is roughly similar to a purpose or aim, the anticipated result which guides reaction, or an end, which is an object, either a physical object or an abstract object, that has intrinsic value.
A positive relationship between goals and performance depends on several factors. First, the goal must be considered important and the individual must be committed. Participative goal setting can help increase performance, but participation itself does not directly improve performance.[3] Self-efficacy also enhances goal commitment.[5] For goals to be effective, people need feedback that details their progress in relation to their goal.[3] This feedback needs to be positive, immediate, graphic, and specific. Providing feedback leads to set references points and "comparisons to the standard inform their behavioral responses" (Stajkovic A.D. and Sergent, K, Cognitive Automation and Organizational Psychology).
For any successful commercial system, it means deriving profits by making the best quality of goods or the best quality of services available to end-users (customers) at the best possible cost.[citation needed] Goal management includes:
"An integrated model of goal-focused coaching: an evidence-based framework for teaching and practice"
"Pursuing personal goals: skills enable progress but not all progress is beneficial"
According to Locke and Latham, goals affect performance in the following ways:[3]
This page was last edited on 15 March 2023, at 02:21 (UTC).
Temporal range is determined by the duration of the goal and the range from proximal (immediate) to distal (delayed).[10][page needed]
Managing goals can give returns in all areas of personal life. Knowing precisely what one wants to achieve makes clear what to concentrate and improve on, and often can help one subconsciously prioritize on that goal. However, successful goal adjustment (goal disengagement and goal re-engagement capacities) is also a part of leading a healthy life.[11]
Furthermore, self-determination theory and research surrounding this theory shows that if an individual effectively achieves a goal, but that goal is not self-endorsed or self-concordant, well-being levels do not change despite goal attainment.[20]
Operational goals: this refers to running the organization in such a way as to make the best use of management skills, technology and resources
Gollwitzer, P. M. (2012). Mindset theory of action phases. In P. A. M. Van Lange. A. W. Kruglanski, & E. T. Handbook of motivation science (pp. 235–250). New York: Guilford Press.
Complexity of a goal is determined by how many subgoals are necessary to achieve the goal and how one goal connects to another.[10][page needed] For example, graduating college could be considered a complex goal because it has many subgoals (such as making good grades), and is connected to other goals, such as gaining meaningful employment.
^ Creek, Jennifer; Lougher, Lesley (2008). "Goal setting". Occupational therapy and mental health (4th ed.). Edinburgh; New York: Churchill Livingstone Elsevier. pp. 111–113 (112). ISBN 9780443100277. OCLC 191890638. Client goals are usually set on two or three levels. Long-term goals are the overall goals of the intervention, the reasons why the client is being offered help, and the expected outcome of intervention... Intermediate goals may be clusters of skills to be developed, attitudes to be changed or barriers to be overcome on the way to achieving the main goals... Short-term goals are the small steps on the way to achieving major goals.
Difficulty is determined by general estimates of probability of achieving the goal.[10][page needed]
^ Gollwitzer, Peter M (1990). "Action phases and mind-sets" (PDF).In Higgins, E Tory; Sorrentino, Richard M (eds.). Handbook of motivation and cognition: foundations of social behavior. Vol. 2. New York: Guilford Press. pp. 53–92. ISBN 978-0898624328. OCLC 12837968.
^ Sheldon, Kennon M; Elliot, Andrew J (March 1999). "Goal striving, need satisfaction, and longitudinal well-being: the self-concordance model" (PDF). Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 76 (3): 482–497. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.76.3.482. PMID 10101878.
This page was last edited on 28 February 2023, at 02:36 (UTC).
In Ghazni Province, Afghanistan, a U.S. Army Special Forces team consisting of team leader Chief Warrant OfficerWally Hamer, Master-Sergeant Kenny Tanner, and Sergeants Vince Degetau,Joe Trinoski, Tim Cole, and Pete Sadler meets CIA Agent Benjamin Keynes, who indicates that their mission is to find a very important Afghan cleric by the name of Mohammed Aban. Hamer, briefs the men to be ready. After being inserted, the team finds a local guide, Abdul, in a village in Southern Afghanistan, where Aban is from. Together, they go to the mountains, where the cleric has a reputation for hiding.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"The Objective", Rotten Tomatoes, retrieved 2019-07-21
Please edit the article to focus on discussing the work rather than merely reiterating the plot.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"The Objective", Rotten Tomatoes, retrieved 2019-07-21
It premiered in Morocco in April 2008 and in the United States in February 2009.
Michael C. Williams as Sergeant Joe Trinoski, 18C SF Demolitions/Engineering Sgt.
Running out of ammunition, water and food, the team wanders further into the desert where they finally encounter the vimanas at what appears to be the location that the British regiment was destroyed. Sadler, overwhelmed with fear, opens fire upon the seemingly invisible vimanas only to be vaporized. Keynes flees with Degetau and abandons him later, as he is too sick to continue, and later hears his screams before being obliterated by the objects. Exhausted and traumatized, Keynes searches for water. He encounters an oasis and drinks water from it only to discover the body of Hamer lying next to the water. Unable to grasp the horror, he passes out. When he wakes up, he hears the distant sound of a helicopter and fires his flare gun. Simultaneously, several flares fire up from the valley. The bright light he encountered earlier re-appears and two beings from it approach him. As it touches his forehead, he sees visions and hallucinations of various objects and landscapes from his previous encounters, causing him to go into a trance. He is shown floating several inches above a bed with a talisman he took from Aban's home in his hand, inside a hospital room, where doctors and a military colonel are watching him through a glass window. In a trance, he finally whispers, "It will save us all..."
Matthew R. Anderson as Chief Warrant Officer Wally Hamer, 180A SF Warrant Officer
Jeff Prewett as Sergeant Pete Sadler, 18B SF Weapons Sgt./Sniper
P. David Miller as Major Matt McCarthy, 18A SF Officer
Kenny Taylor as Master Sergeant Kenny Tanner, 18Z/18F Senior Team Sgt. / Intelligence Sgt.
Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise.
As the team progresses further, the remaining soldiers confront Keynes and demand the truth. Keynes shows them a recording from his thermal imaging camera and informs them about the real motive. The thermal video shows a triangular object in the desert. Being nearly invisible to the naked eye, it lifts off the ground after three (supposed) men, including Mohammed Aban, walk to it and vanishes right in front of Keynes' eyes. It was this object that killed the men. The CIA has been monitoring this since 1980 and sent Keynes and the team there to further investigate it. The whole time, Keynes has been recording with his special thermal camera and sending the images to Langley via an advanced laser aimed at CIA satellites. Keynes theorizes that this object originates from an ancient Indian mythology called 'Vimanas', a sort of UFO-related phenomenon that occurred when Alexander the Great rode through this area of land as he was conquering, and the bright lights and the ghostly gunmen are associated with it. He also explains that the team is 'expendable', and they will not be rescued, which causes a brief scuffle with the agitated team leader, who disappears the next morning.
On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 33% based on reviews from 12 critics.[1]
The Objective is a 2008 science fiction horror film directed by Daniel Myrick, and co-written by Myrick, Mark A. Patton, and Wesley Clark Jr. The film stars Jonas Ball, Matthew R. Anderson, and Michael C. Williams. The plot revolves around CIA Agent Benjamin Keynes recalling the time when he led a Special Forces team through the mountains of Afghanistan in search of an Afghan cleric, only to encounter strange paranormal incidents.
Jon Huertas as Sergeant Vincent Degetau, 18D SF Medical Sgt.
As they go further into the mountains, they begin to have strange encounters. First, they are ambushed by gunmen who kill Trinoski. The team returns fire, killing multiple gunmen, but when they check the bodies, they have disappeared. That night, the team spots headlights of a vehicle approaching. However, the two lights separate and then speedily fly into the sky and disappear. After speculating on what the lights may have been, they radio for a helicopter to resupply them. The next day, they cannot get reception on their radio or GPS. Their truck, damaged from the ambush, is struggling to move up the mountain. At night, the team hears a helicopter approaching, though they cannot spot it. As their radio is not working, they attempt to signal the helicopter. As the helicopter, still unseen, seems to be directly on top of them, the noise abruptly stops (something that shouldn't be physically possible). Meanwhile, the radio picks up what sounds like Persian or Arabic, but no one can understand it. They cache Trinoski's body so that they can move to a safer position for the night. The next morning, the team finds parts of Trinoski's body strewn out across rocks. Further up the mountain, they spot strange, triangular markers made of sticks across the mountain's surface. As they continue on foot with their mission in the rocky and barren landscape, fatigue, frustration and confusion take their toll on the members of the team and they come across a cave. Inside, they find an old man who gives them shelter and refills their canteens. Sergeant Sadler notices that under the man's robes, he appears to be wearing a nineteenth-century British army uniform. Sadler tells the others of a legend of how a British regiment disappeared in Afghanistan's mountains, leaving only one survivor. In the morning Sergeant Cole observes the old man apparently talking to himself, but when Cole looks through his night vision goggles, he sees a group of men with swords in black robes. Panicking, the soldier opens fire, accidentally killing the old man. Abdul says they must bury the body, but Keynes orders the team to move on in case the enemy heard them. Degeteau develops horrible stomach pains. As he tries to drink from a canteen, he finds that it is filled with sand, as are the containers of everyone else. Further on, Abdul is surprised to find that there is an entire valley that wasn't there previously. Tensions further increase when the team encounters a bright light at night. As Tanner and Cole try to flank the light, they're immediately vaporized. The next morning, Abdul warns Keynes that they are dealing with something that is beyond human conception; he then commits suicide by stepping off a cliff.
Wikipedia articles with plot summary needing attention from April 2018
In the final credits, interviews of Keynes' wife are shown in which she says that the family has not yet been informed about him and concludes him to be missing.
Sam Hunter as Sergeant Tim Cole, 18E SF Communications Sgt.
