The modern division of philosophy into theoretical philosophy and practical philosophy[1][2] has its origin in Aristotle's categories of natural philosophy and moral philosophy.[3] The one has theory for its object, and the other practice.[1]
In Sweden[4] and Finland courses in theoretical and practical philosophy are taught separately, and are separate degrees. Other countries may use a similar scheme—some Scottish universities, for example, divide philosophy into logic, metaphysics, and ethics—but in most universities around the world philosophy is taught as a single subject. There is also a unified philosophy subject in some Swedish universities, such as Södertörns Högskola.
This page was last edited on 22 September 2022, at 18:47 (UTC).
Immanuel Kant, Lectures on Ethics, Cambridge University Press, 2001, p. 41 ("On Universal Practical Philosophy"). Original text: Immanuel Kant, Kant’s Gesammelte Schriften, Band XXVII – Moralphilosophie, 1. Hälfte, 1974, p. 243.
Practical philosophy is also the use of philosophy and philosophical techniques in everyday life. This can take a number of forms including reflective practice, personal philosophical thinking, and philosophical counseling.
^ Albert Schwegler, A History of Philosophy in Epitome, D. Appleton, 1877, p. 312.
^ a b Immanuel Kant, Lectures on Ethics, Cambridge University Press, 2001, p. 41 ("On Universal Practical Philosophy"). Original text: Immanuel Kant, Kant’s Gesammelte Schriften, Band XXVII – Moralphilosophie, 1. Hälfte, 1974, p. 243.
Albert Schwegler, A History of Philosophy in Epitome, D. Appleton, 1877, p. 312.
Sally sinks into depression after Michael’s death. Sensing her pain, Gillian astrally projects to Sally from Arizona and they spend the night reconnecting. Gillian explains that she has become involved with an attractive yet intense man named Jimmy Angelov, whom she drugs with belladonna so she can sleep. Healed by Gillian’s visit, Sally finds strength to open the botanical shop she had planned with Michael.
Jimmy possesses Gillian again and tries killing Sally before Frances and Jet return. Realizing she must embrace magic to save her sister, Sally asks the aid of the townswomen and they form a coven to exorcise Jimmy's spirit. Their first attempt hurts Gillian and Sally makes them stop. In a moment of inspiration, Sally re-enacts her blood pact with Gillian. Jimmy’s spirit is expelled from Gillian and the family curse is finally broken. Jimmy is sealed into the grave.
"Practical Magic" – Alan Silvestri / "Convening the Coven" – The Michael Nyman Orchestra
Practical Magic is a 1998 American fantasy romantic drama film based on the 1995 novel of the same name by Alice Hoffman. The film was directed by Griffin Dunne and stars Sandra Bullock, Nicole Kidman, Stockard Channing, Dianne Wiest, Aidan Quinn, and Goran Višnjić.
^ Hibberd, James (October 29, 2010). "ABC Family brewing 'Practical Magic' reboot". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
Gleiberman, Owen (October 16, 1998). "Practical Magic Review". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved December 4, 2012.
"Coupeville- The Home to "Practical Magic"". 4 October 2018. Retrieved 10 October 2020.
^ Eksouzian-Cavadas, Ana (2019-08-21). "Cult '90s film Practical Magic is getting a TV reboot". Vogue Australia. Retrieved 2020-08-16.
^ "Practical Magic: A Victorian House Fit for a Witch". Hooked. 25 October 2009. Retrieved 31 October 2012. It looks like a real house that was built in the 1850s, but it's really just an "architectural shell" that took 8 months to build and was (sadly) destroyed after filming was over.
^ "Coupeville Celebrates 'Practical Magic'". 15 October 2018. Retrieved 10 October 2020.
In Tucson, Gary clears the sisters of any suspicion in Jimmy's death and returns to Massachusetts to be with Sally. By Halloween, the townsfolk have finally embraced the Owens family and gather to watch the witches float down from the highest roof of their house. The film ends with Sally and Gary sharing a kiss.
Gillian suddenly calls from New York asking for help and Sally immediately goes to pick her up. The aunts take Sally's daughters to a moon festival while she's gone. After Sally finds Gillian, Jimmy holds them both hostage in his car and commands Sally to drive at gunpoint. At Gillian’s insistence, Sally sneaks belladonna into Jimmy's tequila to sedate him, but the high dosage inadvertently kills him instead. Realizing that the belladonna in Jimmy’s blood would ruin a self-defence plea, the sisters take his body back to the aunts' house intending to resurrect him with a forbidden spell. He awakens and immediately chokes Gillian. Sally kills him again, and the sisters bury his body in their garden, agreeing not to tell the aunts. The following morning the aunts return with the girls and are overjoyed at Gillian’s homecoming, but their late night celebration is interrupted by a malevolent presence they can all sense. When Sally and Gillian deny it, the aunts leave them to clean up their own mess.
"Practical Magic: A Victorian House Fit for a Witch". Hooked. 25 October 2009. Retrieved 31 October 2012. It looks like a real house that was built in the 1850s, but it's really just an "architectural shell" that took 8 months to build and was (sadly) destroyed after filming was over.
Sandra Bullock as Sally Owens, a witch who becomes widowed after the Owens curse kills her husband. She abandons magic and doesn't allow her daughters to practice it.Camilla Belle as young Sally Owens
"Amas Veritas" – Alan Silvestri / "Maria Owens" – The Michael Nyman Orchestra
The next morning, state investigator Gary Hallett arrives from Tucson, Arizona in search of Jimmy, whom Gary reveals is wanted for first degree murder. After the sisters provide no clues, Gary interviews the locals for any details about the Owens family. Sally gets frustrated and agrees to invite him for breakfast to answer his questions. Upon finding Sally's diary, Kylie and Antonia surmise that Gary is the impossible man from the childhood love spell. Afterwards, Sally breaks down and confesses to Gary in his hotel room, taking full blame for Jimmy’s death. Unable to deny their attraction, they kiss but Sally flees when she realizes Gary is the man she conjured.
In 2010, Warner Bros. and ABC Family attempted to develop a prequel television series.[15]
Peter Shaw as Jack, Sally and Gillian's father, who died from the Owens curse when they were children.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Sims, David (2018-10-16). "Thank the '90s for Practical Magic". The Atlantic. Retrieved 2019-10-16.
Renae, Kirstie. "10 surprising things you didn't know about 'Practical Magic'". Insider. Retrieved 2020-08-16.
^ Ebert, Roger (October 16, 1998). "Practical Magic". rogerebert.com. Sun-Times Media Group. Retrieved December 4, 2012.
According to Sandra Bullock in the DVD commentary, while filming the scene where the Owens women are drunk and slinging insults, the actresses actually got drunk on very bad tequila brought by Kidman. The cast further stated in the film's commentary that they felt supernatural elements of the house started to affect them. Both the cast and crew claimed they heard supernatural noises while filming the coven scene at the end of the film. For the final scene with all of the townspeople at the Owens home, the entire population of the town where filming took place was invited to show up in costume and appear as townsfolk.[8]
Ebert, Roger (October 16, 1998). "Practical Magic". rogerebert.com. Sun-Times Media Group. Retrieved December 4, 2012.
^ "Design". Practical Magic. Amas Veritas. Archived from the original on 6 May 2012. Retrieved 31 October 2012. Though this Victorian house looks as if it's been in place for a century, it's actually an architectural shell.
Aidan Quinn as Investigator Gary Hallet, from Tucson, Arizona, who questions Sally and Gillian in the disappearance of Jimmy Angelov and falls in love with Sally.
^ Gleiberman, Owen (October 16, 1998). "Practical Magic Review". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved December 4, 2012.
Young Gillian and Sally Owens are taken in by their aunts, Frances and Jet, after both their parents succumb to the Owens curse. The sisters endure harsh bullying by the local children. After witnessing their aunts cast a love spell for a woman infatuated with a married man, Sally casts a spell on herself to ensure she will only fall in love with a man who possesses certain impossible traits, with the goal that she will never fall in love. Meanwhile Gillian, witnessing the same incident, cannot wait to fall in love. When the girls are teens, Gillian elopes with her boyfriend and leaves for Los Angeles. Before Gillian departs, she and Sally make a blood spell to always be faithful to one another.
Gillian spends the next decade moving from relationship to relationship across the country, while back in Massachusetts, Sally meets and marries a man named Michael. They enjoy a normal life in town and have two young daughters, Kylie and Antonia. After Michael is fatally hit by a truck, Sally and her daughters go to live with the aunts. After the aunts reveal that they secretly cast a love spell on her so that she could marry and be happy, Sally forbids them from teaching her daughters magic.
Singer Stevie Nicks headlined the soundtrack's published advertisements, promoting her song "If You Ever Did Believe" and a new recording of her song "Crystal," both featuring Sheryl Crow on back-up vocals.
Bullock and Kidman play sisters Sally and Gillian Owens, descended from a long line of witches. Raised by their aunts after their parents' death from a family curse, the sisters were taught the uses of practical magic as they grew up. As adults, Sally and Gillian must use their magic to destroy an evil spirit before it kills them.
Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly gave Practical Magic a negative review, calling it "a witch comedy so slapdash, plodding, and muddled it seems to have had a hex put on it."[13] Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times said that the film "doesn't seem sure what tone to adopt, veering uncertainly from horror to laughs to romance."[14]
Eksouzian-Cavadas, Ana (2019-08-21). "Cult '90s film Practical Magic is getting a TV reboot". Vogue Australia. Retrieved 2020-08-16.
This page was last edited on 11 March 2023, at 14:54 (UTC).
Lucinda Jenney as Sara, one of the town women, who initially fears the Owens family but later responds to Sally's call for help.
Goran Visnjic as James "Jimmy" Angelov, Gillian's lover. Originally from Bulgaria, he's an abusive alcoholic with a cowboy style who kidnaps the sisters, and is killed by them in self-defense, twice.
^ Renae, Kirstie. "10 surprising things you didn't know about 'Practical Magic'". Insider. Retrieved 2020-08-16.
Chloe Webb as Carla, a good friend of Sally's, who works at her shop.
Returning home, Sally discovers Jimmy's spirit has possessed Gillian's body. Gary follows her and arrives in time to see Jimmy's spirit emerge. Jimmy tries possessing Gary, but is turned aside by his silver badge. Sally tells Gary he is there because of her spell, the feelings they have for each other are not real, and the family curse will kill him if they pursue a relationship. Gary replies that curses only work if one believes in them, before returning to Tucson.
^ "Practical Magic". Metacritic. CBS Interactive. Retrieved December 4, 2012.
Dianne Wiest as Bridget 'Jet' Owens, aunt of Sally and Gillian, who is kind and gentle.
Caprice Benedetti as Maria Owens, the first witch in the Owens family and the one who casts the spell that curses all her descendants.
"Design". Practical Magic. Amas Veritas. Archived from the original on 6 May 2012. Retrieved 31 October 2012. Though this Victorian house looks as if it's been in place for a century, it's actually an architectural shell.
Practical Magic opened at #1 with $13.1 million in ticket sales. The film went on to gross $68.3 million worldwide, less than its $75 million production budget.[2]
Martha Gehman as Patty, one of the town women who responds to Sally's call for help.
Caralyn Kozlowski as Regina Owens, Sally and Gillian's mother, who committed suicide after losing her husband to the Owens curse.
Evan Rachel Wood as Kylie Owens, Sally's elder daughter, who lives with her mother and the aunts after the death of her father, Michael. She looks and acts like Gillian.
In a small Massachusetts town, the Owens family have been ostracized for over 300 years after their ancestor, Maria Owens, used witchcraft to survive an attempted execution. Heartbroken when the father of her unborn child never returned to her, Maria cast a spell to prevent herself from ever falling in love again. The spell developed into a curse upon Maria's descendants, bringing death to any man an Owens woman loves.
Composer Michael Nyman's score to the movie was abruptly replaced with music by Alan Silvestri for the theatrical release. This last-minute change resulted in the release of two soundtracks, although as primarily a compilation album only the two tracks of newly created material were changed. A 50-track demo (the last two tracks being "Convening the Coven" and "Maria Owens") of Nyman's score has been circulating among fans as a bootleg. The complete Nyman score runs 62:30 and contains music that would later appear, in altered form, in Ravenous and The Actors, as well as a bit of his stepwise chord progression theme from Out of the Ruins/String Quartet No. 3/Carrington/The End of the Affair/The Claim. "Convening the Coven", though not "Maria Owens," was subsequently reissued on The Very Best of Michael Nyman: Film Music 1980–2001, and music that uses material related to this piece has not been used elsewhere."Convening the Coven" became "City of Turin" on The Glare.
^ "Practical Magic". Rotten Tomatoes. Fandango. Retrieved June 27, 2022.
Stockard Channing as Frances Owens, aunt of Sally and Gillian, who tends to be frank and assertive.
"Coupeville Celebrates 'Practical Magic'". 15 October 2018. Retrieved 10 October 2020.
Practical Magic was filmed in part on an artificial set in California. Because the film's producers decided the house was a big part of the depiction of the Owens culture, a house to accurately represent that vision was built on San Juan Island in the state of Washington.[5] While much of the set from California was brought to that location and placed inside the house, it took nearly a year to perfect the image of the house and the interior.[6] The house, actually only a shell with nothing inside, was built only for this filming and was torn down after filming was completed. The small town scenes were filmed in downtown Coupeville, Washington, a Victorian-era seaside port town located on the south side of Penn Cove on Whidbey Island.[7]
Hibberd, James (October 29, 2010). "ABC Family brewing 'Practical Magic' reboot". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
^ "Americanalbumcertifications – Soundtrack – Practical Magic". Recording Industry Association of America. Retrieved December 17, 2022.
In 2004, Warner Bros. and CBS produced Sudbury, a television pilot written by Becky Hartman Edwards and directed by Bryan Spicer starring Kim Delaney in the role played by Bullock in the film and Jeri Ryan in the role played by Kidman. The series, named for the Sudbury, Massachusetts location of the novel and film, was not picked up.
"Cult '90s film Practical Magic is getting a TV reboot"
Alexandra Artrip as Antonia Owens, Sally's younger daughter, who also lives with her mother and the aunts after the death of her father. She has dark hair and a spunky personality.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Sims, David (2018-10-16). "Thank the '90s for Practical Magic". The Atlantic. Retrieved 2019-10-16.
^ "Coupeville- The Home to "Practical Magic"". 4 October 2018. Retrieved 10 October 2020.
"Americanalbumcertifications – Soundtrack – Practical Magic". Recording Industry Association of America. Retrieved December 17, 2022.
Nicole Kidman as Gillian Owens, Sally's free-spirited sister who embraces her heritage, leaves their small town and becomes the victim of an abusive relationship.Lora Anne Criswell as young Gillian Owens
Mark Feuerstein as Michael, Sally Owens' husband and the late father of Kylie and Antonia Owens. He is a victim of his wife's family curse, which results in his untimely death when their daughters are young.
Margo Martindale as Linda Bennett, another friend of Sally's who also works at her shop.
Engel Jr., Mylan (2011). "Review of Practical Ethics, 3rd Edition by Peter Singer". The American Journal of Bioethics. 11 (12): 73–75. doi:10.1080/15265161.2011.626728. S2CID 57037141.
Fischer, John Martin (1983). "Practical Ethics by Peter Singer". The Philosophical Review. 92 (2): 264–266. doi:10.2307/2184936. JSTOR 2184936. S2CID 239298359.
Singer analyzes, in detail, why and how beings' interests should be weighed. In his view, a being's interests should always be weighed according to that being's concrete properties, and not according to its belonging to some abstract group. Singer studies a number of ethical issues including race, sex, ability, species, abortion, euthanasia, infanticide, embryo experimentation, the moral status of animals, political violence, overseas aid, and whether we have an obligation to assist others. The 1993 second edition adds chapters on refugees, the environment, equality and disability, embryo experimentation, and the treatment of academics in Germany.[1][2] A third edition published in 2011 omits the chapter on refugees, and contains a new chapter on climate change.[3]
This page was last edited on 6 March 2023, at 13:53 (UTC).
^ James Rachels (2003). The Elements of Moral Philosophy, Fourth Edition. p. 203.
James Rachels (2003). The Elements of Moral Philosophy, Fourth Edition. p. 203.
"Review of Practical Ethics by Peter Singer". 2006-09-20. Retrieved 2009-05-22.
H. L. A. Hart's review of the third edition in The New York Review of Books was mixed. While writing that "The utility of this utilitarian's book to students of its subject can hardly be exaggerated", Hart also criticized Practical Ethics for philosophical inconsistency in its chapter on abortion. He argues that Singer insufficiently explains how preference and classical utilitarianism each view abortion, and does not bring out their differences.[7]
Hart, H.L.A. (15 May 1980). "Death and Utility". The New York Review of Books. Retrieved 19 April 2021. Singer replies to Hart's review in The New York Review of Books (14 August 1980)[1].
Midgley, Mary (October 1980). "Review: Consequentialism and Common Sense". The Hastings Center Report. 10 (5): 43–44. doi:10.2307/3561052. JSTOR 3561052.
^ Engel Jr., Mylan (2011). "Review of Practical Ethics, 3rd Edition by Peter Singer". The American Journal of Bioethics. 11 (12): 73–75. doi:10.1080/15265161.2011.626728. S2CID 57037141.
^ Fischer, John Martin (1983). "Practical Ethics by Peter Singer". The Philosophical Review. 92 (2): 264–266. doi:10.2307/2184936. JSTOR 2184936. S2CID 239298359.
^ "Review of Practical Ethics by Peter Singer". 2006-09-20. Retrieved 2009-05-22.
Practical Ethics is widely read and was described as "an excellent text for an introductory ethics course" by the philosopher John Martin Fischer.[4] The philosopher James Rachels recommended the book "as an introduction centered on such practical issues as abortion, racism, and so forth."[5] The philosopher Mylan Engel called the book "must reading for anyone interested in living an ethical life."[6]
Practical Ethics, a 1979 book by the moral philosopher Peter Singer, is an introduction to applied ethics. The book has been translated into a number of languages.
^ Hart, H.L.A. (15 May 1980). "Death and Utility". The New York Review of Books. Retrieved 19 April 2021. Singer replies to Hart's review in The New York Review of Books (14 August 1980)[1].
^ Longino, H. E., & Hammonds, E. (1990). Conflicts and tensions in the feminist study of gender and science. In M. Hirsch & E. F. Keller (Eds.), Conflicts in feminism. New York: Routledge. – ISBN 978-0-415-90178-9
The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State (1884)
James, V. (2014). Musing: A Black Feminist Philosopher: Is That Possible? Hypatia, 29(1), 189–195. doi:10.1111/hypa.12067
^ Felski, R. (1989). Beyond feminist aesthetics: Feminist literature and social change. Harvard University Press.
Mikkola, M. (2017). On the apparent antagonism between feminist and mainstream metaphysics. Philosophical Studies, 174(10), 2435–2448
Feminist epistemology, which challenges traditional philosophical ideas of knowledge and rationality as objective, universal, or value-neutral. Feminist epistemologists often argue for the importance of perspective, social situation, and values in generating knowledge, including in the sciences.
Feminist phenomenology investigates how both cognitive faculties (e.g., thinking, interpreting, remembering, knowing) and the construction of normativity within social orders combine to shape an individual's reality. Phenomenology in feminist philosophy is often applied to develop improved conceptions of gendered embodied experience, of intersubjectivity and relational life, and to the community, society, and political phenomena. Feminist phenomenology goes beyond other representation-focused discourses by centering personal and embodied experiences, as well as recognizing how experience often operates outside of language, so can be difficult to articulate.[8] Reflection upon time as a construct is a more recent development in feminist phenomenology; recent works have begun investigating temporality’s place in the field, and how a more complex understanding of temporality can further illuminate realities of gendered experience and existence.[9]
^ Mikkola, M. (2017). On the apparent antagonism between feminist and mainstream metaphysics. Philosophical Studies, 174(10), 2435–2448
Fulfer, Katy & Ryman, Emma (2013). What is Feminist Phenomenology?
Smith, David W. (2013) Phenomenology. In Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
Feminist philosophy of science, which is rooted in interdisciplinary academic feminism, works to challenge how the production of scientific knowledge as well as the methodologies employed in such productions are not free of bias. Contrary to other perceptions of science, the feminist philosophy of science recognizes the practice of science as value-rich instead of value-free,[16] suggesting that ideologies, such as those related to gender, are tied up within the models and practices that constitute what science is and what knowledge it produces.[17]
Lee, Emily S. (2011). The Epistemology of the Question of Authenticity, in Place of Strategic Essentialism. Hypatia, 26(2), 258–279.
Feminist philosophers work within a broad range of subfields, including:
Bulanova-Duvalko, L. F. (2015). Философские аспекты понимания направления феминистской эстетики [Philosophical aspects of understanding the trend of feminist aesthetics]. Studia Humanitatis (in Russian) (3). ISSN 2308-8079.
van Leeuwen, Anne. (2012). Beauvoir, Irigaray, and the Possibility of Feminist Phenomenology. The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, 26(2), 474–484.
Felski, R. (1989). Beyond feminist aesthetics: Feminist literature and social change. Harvard University Press.
Always/Already Podcast (November 23, 2014) Always/Already Podcast: Episode 12 – Living alterities: phenomenology, embodiment, and race [Audio Podcast].
^ Richardson, S. S. (2010). Feminist philosophy of science: history, contributions, and challenges. Synthese, 177(3), 337–362.
^ Gilligan, Carol (1982). In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and Women's Development. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674970960.
Stone, Alison (2007). An Introduction to Feminist Philosophy. Cambridge, UK: Polity. pp. 2–3. ISBN 074563883X.
Contributing to philosophy with new approaches to existing questions as well as new questions and fields of research in light of their critical inquiries into the philosophical tradition and reflecting their concern with gender.[3]
Richardson, S. S. (2010). Feminist philosophy of science: history, contributions, and challenges. Synthese, 177(3), 337–362.
^ "philosophical feminism | Britannica". www.britannica.com. Retrieved 21 November 2022.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Feminist Philosophy". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 14 September 2020.
This page was last edited on 28 January 2023, at 08:42 (UTC).
Feminist aesthetics, which concerns the role of gender and sexuality in art and aesthetic theorising, and deals with issues related to the subjectivity of creators, the reproduction of gendered norms in art, the role of art in enculturation, and representation of women in art, both as subjects and creators.[10] An understanding of “women” and “artists” as mutually exclusive identities has been reproduced since at least the era of romanticism, and this division has made interventions by feminist aesthetics necessary to challenge the patriarchal and masculine state of aesthetics.[11]
Feminist philosophy can be understood to have three main functions:
Gatens, M., Feminism and Philosophy: Perspectives on Difference and Equality (Indiana University Press, 1991). — ISBN 978-0-7456-0469-5
Feminist philosophy is united by a central concern with gender. It also typically involves some form of commitment to justice for women, whatever form that may take.[3] Aside from these uniting features, feminist philosophy is a diverse field covering a wide range of topics from a variety of approaches. broadening further, feminist philosophy entails how race, sexuality, socioeconomic class, and other factors of identity impact gender inequalities.[4] Feminist philosophers, as philosophers, are found in both the analytic and continental traditions, and a myriad of different viewpoints are taken on philosophical issues within those traditions. Feminist philosophers, as feminists, can also belong to many different varieties of feminism.[2]
Always/Already Podcast: Episode 12 – Living alterities: phenomenology, embodiment, and race
Longino, H. E., & Hammonds, E. (1990). Conflicts and tensions in the feminist study of gender and science. In M. Hirsch & E. F. Keller (Eds.), Conflicts in feminism. New York: Routledge. – ISBN 978-0-415-90178-9
Gatens, M., Feminism and Philosophy: Perspectives on Difference and Equality (Indiana University Press, 1991)
Feminist philosophy is an approach to philosophy from a feminist perspective and also the employment of philosophical methods to feminist topics and questions.[1] Feminist philosophy involves both reinterpreting philosophical texts and methods in order to supplement the feminist movement and attempts to criticise or re-evaluate the ideas of traditional philosophy from within a feminist framework.[2]
Halsema, A. (2013). The Subject of Critique: Ricoeur in Dialogue with Feminist Philosophers. Études Ricoeuriennes, 4(1), 21–39. https://doi.org/10.5195/errs.2013.168
McAfee, Noëlle (2018). "Feminist Philosophy".In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2018 ed.). Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Retrieved 21 November 2022.
^ a b c Kittay, Eva Feder & Linda Martín Alcoff, "Introduction: Defining Feminist Philosophy" in The Blackwell Guide to Feminist Philosophy, Blackwell Publishing, 2007. – ISBN 978-0-470-69538-8
Feminist ethics, often argues that the emphasis on objectivity, rationality, and universality in traditional moral thought excludes women's ethical realities.[3] One of the most notable developments is the ethics of care, which values empathy, responsibility, and non-violence in the development of moral systems. Care ethics also involve a greater recognition of interpersonal connections and relations of care and dependency, and feminist ethics uses this to critique how ethics of justice is often rooted in patriarchal understandings of morality.[6] Some feminist ethicists have shown concern about how values ascribed to an ethics of care are often associated with femaleness, and how such a connection can bolster ideas about moral development as essentially gendered.[7]
Schües, C., Olkowski, D. E., & Fielding, H. A. (2011). Time in Feminist Phenomenology. Bloomington, UNITED STATES: Indiana University Press.
^ Always/Already Podcast (November 23, 2014) Always/Already Podcast: Episode 12 – Living alterities: phenomenology, embodiment, and race [Audio Podcast].
Gilligan, Carol (1982). In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and Women's Development. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674970960.
^ Schües, C., Olkowski, D. E., & Fielding, H. A. (2011). Time in Feminist Phenomenology. Bloomington, UNITED STATES: Indiana University Press.
^ Oksala, J. (2011). Sexual Experience: Foucault, Phenomenology, and Feminist Theory. Hypatia, 26(1), 207–223.
^ Barnes, E. (2014). XV-Going Beyond the Fundamental: Feminism in Contemporary Metaphysics. Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society (Paperback), 114 (3pt3), 335–351.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Feminist Philosophy". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 14 September 2020.
^ McAfee, Noëlle (2018). "Feminist Philosophy".In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2018 ed.). Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Retrieved 21 November 2022.
Investigating sexism and androcentrism within the philosophical tradition. This can involve critiquing texts and theories that are typically classified as part of the philosophical canon, especially by focusing on their presentation of women and women's experiences or the exclusion of women from the philosophical tradition. Another significant trend is the rediscovery of the work of many female philosophers whose contributions have not been recognised.
Feminist philosophy existed before the twentieth century but became labelled as such in relation to the discourse of second-wave feminism of the 1960s and 1970s. Many theories during the second wave focused primarily on gender equality in the workplace and education.[5] An important project of feminist philosophy that emerged from the third-wave feminism movement has been to incorporate the diversity of experiences of women from different racial groups and socioeconomic classes, as well as of women around the globe.
Kittay, Eva Feder & Linda Martín Alcoff, "Introduction: Defining Feminist Philosophy" in The Blackwell Guide to Feminist Philosophy, Blackwell Publishing, 2007. – ISBN 978-0-470-69538-8
^ Sider, T. (2017). Substantivity in feminist metaphysics. Philosophical Studies, 174(10), 2467–2478.
Sider, T. (2017). Substantivity in feminist metaphysics. Philosophical Studies, 174(10), 2467–2478.
Oksala, J. (2011). Sexual Experience: Foucault, Phenomenology, and Feminist Theory. Hypatia, 26(1), 207–223.
^ Bulanova-Duvalko, L. F. (2015). Философские аспекты понимания направления феминистской эстетики [Philosophical aspects of understanding the trend of feminist aesthetics]. Studia Humanitatis (in Russian) (3). ISSN 2308-8079.
Drawing on philosophical methodologies and theories to articulate and theorize about feminist concerns and perspectives. This can include providing a philosophical analysis of concepts regarding identity (such as race, socio-economic status, gender, sexuality, ability, and religion) and concepts that are very widely used and theorised within feminist theory more broadly. Feminist philosophy has also been an important source for arguments for gender equality.
Feminist metaphysics, focuses largely on the ontology of gender and sex and the nature of social construction. Feminist historians of philosophy also examine sex biases inherent in traditional metaphysical theories. One of the main points at which this field diverges from classical metaphysics is in its attempts to ground social constructs into understandings of the “fundamental” and “natural”, around which metaphysics is built around.[12] Feminist metaphysics attempts to balance the relationship between social constructs and reality by recognizing how the distinction between what is perceived as “real” and what is “socially constructed” creates a binary that fails to acknowledge the interplay between the two concepts.[13] Similarly, this field works to challenge systems of classifications that are deemed natural, and therefore unbiased, by revealing how such systems are affected by political and moral ideologies and biases.[14] Some theorists have raised questions regarding whether certain fundamental aspects of metaphysics inherently oppose a feminist approach,[15] and so the relationship between feminism and metaphysics remains somewhat precarious.
Barnes, E. (2014). XV-Going Beyond the Fundamental: Feminism in Contemporary Metaphysics. Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society (Paperback), 114 (3pt3), 335–351.
^ a b Gatens, M., Feminism and Philosophy: Perspectives on Difference and Equality (Indiana University Press, 1991). — ISBN 978-0-7456-0469-5
^ This section of the article references the Roy Harris translation of the book.
Saussure divided language into two parts: the langue, which is the system of signs and rules owned by a community, and parole, the individual acts of speech within the given community. This was likened by Saussure to chess and a game of chess, for before anyone can play, they have to know the rules and structure of the game.
^ José Lopez, Society and Its Metaphors: Language, Social Theory and Social Structure, Bloomsbury Academic, 2003, p. 117.
French philosophy, here taken to mean philosophy in the French language, has been extremely diverse and has influenced Western philosophy as a whole for centuries, from the medieval scholasticism of Peter Abelard, through the founding of modern philosophy by René Descartes, to 20th century philosophy of science, existentialism, phenomenology, structuralism, and postmodernism.
Outside of his dialectic, it was in ethics that Abelard showed greatest activity of philosophical thought. He laid particular stress upon the subjective intention as determining, if not the moral character, at least the moral value, of human action. His thought in this direction, anticipating something of modern speculation, is the more remarkable because his scholastic successors accomplished least in the field of morals, hardly venturing to bring the principles and rules of conduct under pure philosophical discussion, even after the great ethical inquiries of Aristotle became fully known to them.
It can already be seen clearly that language is highly dualistic for Saussure. Indeed, he maintained that man thought essentially in dichotomies. For Saussure, the way language can be studied is dualistic too. It can be studied synchronically, i.e. as a complete system within a frozen moment of time, or it can be studied diachronically, which is the examination of its historical development. It can be said that structuralists focussed on the synchronic aspects of culture, while poststructuralists, as a reaction toward the highly dualistic and deterministic characteristics, focussed on the diachronic aspects of culture in an attempt to invoke a grey area.[8]
Pierre Duhem (1861–1916) introduced the Duhem thesis, an early form of confirmation holism.
Modern philosophy began in France with the philosophy of René Descartes (1596–1650). His Meditations on First Philosophy changed the primary object of philosophical thought from ontology to epistemology and overcame the Aristotelian dogmatism inherited in philosophy from Scholasticism, the dominant form of thought in preceding centuries, while simultaneously raising some of the most fundamental problems for future generations of philosophers.
^ This section of the article references René Descartes’ Discourse on Method and Meditations on First Philosophy.
Michel Eyquem de Montaigne (1533–1592) may have been Catholic, but his anti-dogmatic stances made him the father of the anti-conformist French spirit. His work consists of little trials for his thoughts, filled with autobiographical and casual anecdotes. His intention with his essays was to leave something by which family could remember him. He was the first person to use the word essays, and his writings came to be highly influential upon Shakespeare, Rousseau and Nietzsche. His Pyrrhonian philosophical skepticism, summed up in his personal motto of Que sais-je? ("what do I know?"), served as one of the catalysts for René Descartes' oeuvre.
Jules Vuillemin (1920–2001) introduced the concept of the philosophy of algebra and was specialized in philosophy of knowledge.
Pope Innocent III accepted Abelard's Doctrine of Limbo, which amended Augustine of Hippo's Doctrine of Original Sin. The Vatican accepted the view that unbaptized babies did not, as at first believed, go straight to Hell but to a special area of limbo, "limbus infantium". They would therefore feel no pain but no supernatural happiness either (only natural) because, it was held, they would not be able to see the deity that created them.[2]
José Lopez, Society and Its Metaphors: Language, Social Theory and Social Structure, Bloomsbury Academic, 2003, p. 117.
Claude Lévi-Strauss (1908–2009) applied Saussure’s structuralism to anthropology, specifically in the topic of intermarriage between tribes.[21]
Jacques Derrida (1930–2004) developed deconstruction as a response to structuralism. Deconstruction takes a text, examines binary oppositions within it from several different interpreting standpoints, and then attempts to show them to be dependent upon one another, unstable, ambiguous and historically and culturally defined. Through showing the fluidity of the dichotomies, deconstruction shows the fluidity of the text. Derrida maintained that no meaning is stable, not even the dichotomies classical philosophers took for granted. Through an internal logic, the text deconstructs itself and hence allows highly original interpretations.
One solution to the mind–body problem came from Cartesian Nicolas Malebranche (1638–1715). Malebranche maintained that created substances of a different kind cannot interact with one another. In fact, he believed substances of the same kind could not interact either because no necessary causation could be perceived. He proposes then that it is God, an uncreated substance, who brings it about that each time one perceives a 'cause', one also perceives an 'effect'. Hence the doctrine is named occasionalism.
For Saussure, the essential unit of any language is the word, or sign. Like language, he divides the word into two inseparable parts: the signifier, which is the sound image, and the signified, which is the concept associated with the signifier. Saussure stressed the arbitrariness of this association, maintaining that any signifier can refer to any signified. How a sign obtains its meaning is by what it is not within the langue, not what it is. For example, the word ‘dog’ means dog simply because it does not mean cat, bird or cornflakes.
French philosophy in the 20th century saw the rise of many schools of thought. The philosophy of science with Poincaré, Bachelard, Cavaillès and Vuillemin. The phenomenology, presented in a Cartesian format and influenced by German thought, particularly the phenomenology of Husserl and Heidegger. Phenomenology was consistently noticeable throughout the 20th century, whereas existentialism spread throughout the west and gained fame, only to die out somewhat with the advent of structuralism, which came to be seen as merely a necessary means of access to post-structuralism, while postmodern thought came to dominate the late 20th century.
Simone de Beauvoir (1908–1986) was an existential feminist. Beauvoir believed that through surrounding women in a false aura of mystery, man had turned her into "the other". Furthermore, she proclaimed women were stereotyped by this aura and that it was used by man as an excuse for not understanding them and dominating them. "The other" is always the underclass. But Beauvoir maintains that Sartre’s thesis (that is, existence precedes essence) applies to women as much as it does to men and that through their choices and actions, women can transcend this aura and reject being the underclass.[citation needed]
E. Reck (ed.), The Historical Turn in Analytic Philosophy, Springer, 2016: ch. 2.1.
All of Henri Bergson’s works were concerned with his theory of real time as it is experienced by consciousness. He came by the idea while trying to improve on the evolutionary philosophy of Herbert Spencer, and has likened it to the rolling and unrolling of thread to represent man’s sense of mortality and the continual gain of new memory; a spectrum of a thousand shades with a current of feeling running through them, collecting and retaining them, to represent how all the moments are heterogeneous; and a piece of elastic contracted to a point and then drawn out indefinitely, producing a line which will progressively grow longer and longer, to represent pure, indivisible mobility. However, these images are insufficient and can only show the idea indirectly. The first is too homogeneous, the second is juxtaposed and complete whereas time is in a constant state of becoming, and the third forgets the heterogeneous nature of the idea. In fact, Bergson maintains that the case is the same for any other image of the idea one can produce.[10]
Emmanuel Lévinas (1906–1995) was one of the first to introduce phenomenology to France, through his translation of Edmund Husserl’s Cartesian Meditations. Lévinas considered ethics primary in philosophy and once proclaimed that it precedes metaphysics and should be considered the first philosophy. He developed a moral philosophy based around notions of the other and the face which introduced ethics into phenomenology, which had been missing since the demise of Max Scheler.[17]
International Theological Commission, the Vatican. "The Hope of Salvation for Infants Who Die Without Being Baptised". Archived from the original on 2008-12-22. Retrieved 2008-12-07.
Conversations on Science, Culture, and Time: Michel Serres Interviewed by Bruno Latour, University of Michigan Press, 1995, p. 8.
Strongly influenced by the Utopian socialist, Henri de Saint-Simon, Comte developed the positive philosophy in an attempt to remedy the social malaise of the French revolution, calling for a new social paradigm based on the sciences. Comte offered an account of social evolution, proposing that society undergoes three phases in its quest for the truth according to a general 'law of three stages'. Comte's stages were (1) the theological, (2) the metaphysical, and (3) the positive.[5]
Voltaire (1694–1778) came to embody the Enlightenment with his criticisms of Church dogma and French institutions, his defence of civil liberties and his support of social reform. The civil liberties for which he fought were those of the right to a free trial and freedom of religion. He is best remembered for his aphorisms and his satire of Leibniz known as Candide, which tells the tale of a young believer in Leibnizian optimism who becomes disillusioned after a series of hardships.
519th century											Toggle 19th century subsection																					5.1Auguste Comte																											5.2Ferdinand de Saussure																											5.3Henri Bergson
French philosophy in the 18th century was deeply political. It was heavily imbued with Enlightenment principles and many of its philosophers became critics of church and state and promoters of rationality and progress. These philosophers would come to have a deep influence on the politics and ideologies of France and America.
Louis Althusser (1918–1990) and his colleagues, prominently including Étienne Balibar, reworked Marxism using insights from structuralism, against the so-called "humanist" trend in Sartrean and Western Marxisms. Althusser offered an influential new reading of Marx's work, describing an "epistemological break" between the young, Hegelian Marx and the late Marx of Das Kapital.With his focus on the economic level and theory, Althusser came into conflict with social historians, such as E. P. Thompson.
^ International Theological Commission, the Vatican. "The Hope of Salvation for Infants Who Die Without Being Baptised". Archived from the original on 2008-12-22. Retrieved 2008-12-07.
Ferdinand de Saussure (1857–1913) was a Swiss linguist who taught for many years in Paris. He was concerned with distinguishing linguistics from philology by moving from the study of the history of individual words and comparisons of languages to the study of the essential underlying structures of language. His small output of work, most of which was published posthumously, became the foundations of linguistics, semiotics and structuralism, the school of philosophy concerned with the underlying structures which form, limit and affect society, language and the human mind.
Voyage aux marges du savoir : ethno-sociologie de la connaissance
Bergson calls this idea Duration and defines it as being qualitative, not quantitative, unextended, not extended, a multiplicity yet a unity, mobile and continuously interpenetrating itself. However, it should be warned that Bergson believes Duration cannot be represented by concepts either. Bergson calls the creation of concepts analysis and believes it can never represent the absolute. He likens it to constructing a model of a city out of a collection of photographs taken from every angle and a poem being translated and having commentary piled upon commentary: the model of the city can never replicate the feeling of being in the city itself and the translation and commentaries can never give the simple dimensional value of walking in the city itself. Indeed, symbols always distort the part of an object they represent through generalization to include it and every other objects’ part they represent.[10]
After invoking the possibility of an omnipotent deceiver to reject the external world, the information given to him from his senses, mathematics and logic, Descartes discovered at least one thing could be known apodictically. If he himself was doubting, then he had to exist. Thus Cogito Ergo Sum - I think, therefore I am - became the first principle of Cartesianism.
As previously mentioned, French Structuralism is primarily concerned with the underlying structures which form, limit and affect society, language and the human mind. It finds its roots in the thought of Ferdinand de Saussure, who was concerned with linguistics. But soon structuralism began to be applied to anthropology, social sciences and psychology. Structuralism played a major role in intellectual thought after World War Two, where it rejected existential concepts of freedom for the idea of man as determined by structures in the thought of such thinkers as Claude Lévi-Strauss and Jacques Lacan. However, by the end of the century it became perceived as important not for itself, but for the schools of thought it produced, such as poststructuralism and deconstruction.
620th century											Toggle 20th century subsection																					6.1Philosophy of science																											6.2Phenomenology																											6.3Existentialism																											6.4Moral and Political Philosophy																											6.5Structuralism																											6.6Poststructuralism and postmodernism
This page was last edited on 1 March 2023, at 11:53 (UTC).
Roland Barthes (1915–1980) was a literary critic and semiologist who applied Saussure’s thought to literary theory. In Mythologies, Barthes explored articles, advertisements, movies, etc. to demonstrate the deep-seated bourgeois propaganda found within. He described these myths as second-order signs. A certain form of green bottles signify red wine. The bourgeois thenassign a second signifier to this signifier, that of relaxing, healthy, strong wine, be it to sell products or uphold the status quo.
317th century											Toggle 17th century subsection																					3.1René Descartes																											3.2Nicolas Malebranche
The Duration can only be grasped through intuition, the sympathy by which one is transported into an object to grasp what is unique and ineffable within it. Intuition is a complete philosophical method that involves placing oneself within the Duration, and expanding it into a continuous heterogeneity, differentiating the extremities within it to create a dualism, before showing them to in fact be one.[10] An example of this is Duration itself, which is neither a multiplicity or a unity. But depending on which point of view one recreates it from, one will either reconstruct it as a unity or a multiplicity. Hence substance pluralism and substance monism are in fact two representations of the same phenomenon.
Peter Abelard (1079 – April 21, 1142) was a scholastic philosopher, theologian and logician. The story of his affair with and love for Héloïse has become legendary. The Chambers Biographical Dictionary describes him as "the keenest thinker and boldest theologian of the 12th Century".[1]
Jacques Lacan (1901–1981) was a psychoanalyst who sought to explain the mind in terms of structures both in order to correct perceived errors in Freud’s thought as well as errors in the subsequent interpretation of Freud through the theories of Saussure, Strauss and Barthes. Lacan was also influenced by German philosophers G. W. F. Hegel and Martin Heidegger through Alexandre Kojève's lectures on Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit.
Denis Diderot (1713–1784) was a key collaborator in the creation of the Encyclopédia. A systematic collection of all the information of the arts and sciences, the Encyclopédia caused great controversy. Diderot was harassed repeatedly by the police, and was even arrested. The ecclesiastical party disliked the Encyclopédia, which was a threat to the aristocracy because it asserted that the state should take care of the people and not itself, religious freedom, freedom of thought and the value of science and industry. In the end, the bookseller began removing all articles he deemed controversial in fear of punishment. The Encyclopédia that Diderot had worked on for twenty years was ruined beyond repair.
France in World War IIVichy FranceFree FranceLiberation of FrancePost-liberation 1944-1946
Michel Foucault (1926–1984) maintained a similar scepticism about absolutes, such as right and wrong, sane and insane, and human nature. His method was not to deny such notions, but to historicize them, examining what in the supposedly necessary may be contingent, and demonstrating the relationships between knowledge and politics, power and knowledge. His main fields of investigation were psychiatry, medicine and disciplinary institutions. Foucault was anti-Hegelian and anti-teleological in his historical excavations. Through his examinations of psychiatry in Madness and Civilization, he showed that the development of psychiatry was not an obvious improvement on previous treatments of the insane, and that furthermore, the apparent scientific neutrality of psychiatric treatments hides the fact that they are a form of controlling defiance of bourgeois society.[23]
Jean Cavaillès (1903–1944) was specialized in philosophy of science concerned with the axiomatic method, formalism, set theory and mathematical logic.
Jean-Paul Sartre (1905–1980) defined his existentialism as drawing all the conclusions from a consistent line of atheism. His major thesis is that existence precedes essence. With an immaterial object, such as a knife, an artisan devises an essence, such as that of slicing bread, and then produces an object whose purpose it is to fulfil its essence. However, without God, there is no artisan who developed the essence of man in a teleological sense. So first man is born free, thrown into the world where sole responsibility for his actions rests on his shoulders, then through his actions he defines the essence of not only himself, but of what he believes man ought to be. The denial of this responsibility through excuses is what Sartre termed bad faith. Jean-Paul Sartre was a spokesman for a generation, but his influence waned with the advent of structuralism.[18]
Chambers Biographical Dictionary, 2011, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 0-550-18022-2, page 3
Maurice Merleau-Ponty (1908–1961) was concerned with the foundations of perception. His theory of the subject-body was produced as an alternative to René Descartes' Cogito and substance dualism. In contrast to the clear distinction between the mind and the external world, where the latter is but an extension of the former, the subject-body is an existential account of the pre-reflective subject, the subject's perception and the world as intricately intertwined.
Gargani Julien (2011), Voyage aux marges du savoir : ethno-sociologie de la connaissance, L’Harmattan, p. 168
Albert Camus (1913–1960) rejected being labelled an existentialist, preferring to be called an absurdist.[19] In the opening pages of The Myth of Sisyphus, he states what he considers to be the fundamental question of philosophy: is suicide the correct response to an absurd world? Likening a Godless life to the story of Sisyphus, where he is doomed forever to push a rock up a hill only for it to roll down again, Camus’ answer is "No. It requires revolt. […] The struggle itself is enough to fill a man’s heart. One must imagine Sisyphus happy."[20]
Phenomenology can be defined as a way of philosophizing which involves descriptive explanations of phenomena as it is given to consciousness and how it is given to consciousness, which attempts to avoid imposed explanations. In France, phenomenology was seen as a radical Cartesianism which rejected substance dualism to better understand transcendental consciousness. It played a major role in existentialism and many postmodern philosophers' thought, such as Gilles Deleuze and Jacques Derrida, who actually began his career with a deep, critical study of Edmund Husserl. Phenomenology is still an important area of research in France today.[17]
While Ferdinand de Saussure was a relatively obscure thinker in his time, it may be said that Henri Bergson (1859–1941) was somewhat of a celebrity. His philosophy appealed both to academics and the general public from its first inception in 1889 to Bergson’s death in the early 20th century. Although a major influence on William James, Alfred North Whitehead, Jean-Paul Sartre, Emmanuel Lévinas, Maurice Merleau-Ponty and the novelist Marcel Proust, interest in his work greatly decreased after WW2. However, in the late 20th century, through the works of self-proclaimed Bergsonian Gilles Deleuze came a revitalization of interest in Henri Bergson’s oeuvre.[9]
He helped to establish the ascendancy of the philosophical authority of Aristotle which became firmly established in the half-century after his death. It was at this time that the completed Organon, and gradually all the other works of the Greek thinker, first came to be available in the schools. Before his time Plato's authority was the basis for the prevailing Realism. As regards his so-called Conceptualism and his attitude to the question of Universals, see Scholasticism.
The second half of the 20th century saw the rise of so-called postmodern thought. This rise was especially noticeable in France. However, the term is fairly hard to define. In fact, some people maintain that it is nothing but a slur applied to a group of disparate philosophers wrongly grouped together. However, it can also be seen as a critique of traditional western thought, particularly dichotomies and the belief in progress, influenced heavily by structuralism, phenomenology and existentialism.
Auguste Comte (1798–1857) was a philosopher born in Montpellier. He was the founder of the discipline of sociology and the doctrine of positivism, and may be regarded as the first philosopher of science in the modern sense of the term.[4]
Comte was of considerable influence in 19th century thought, impacting the work of thinkers such as Karl Marx and John Stuart Mill.[7]
The general importance of Abelard lies in his having fixed more decisively than anyone before him the scholastic manner of philosophizing, with the object of giving a formally rational expression to received ecclesiastical doctrine. However his own particular interpretations may have been condemned, they were conceived in essentially the same spirit as the general scheme of thought afterwards elaborated in the 13th century with approval from the heads of the Church.
Another famous problem arises from Descartes’ substance dualism. For Descartes, a substance is that which can be conceived independent of everything else and exist independent of anything else. Since Descartes conceived of the mind independent of everything else when doubting everything uncertain, and because if he wanted to God could produce a world in which only the mind existed, he came to define the mind as a different substance from that of body. For Descartes, the mind is defined as an unextended substance and the body as an extended substance. This raised the fundamental question of how it is possible that mind and body interact with one another.[3]
Henri Bergson (1946), The Creative Mind: An Introduction to Metaphysics, pages 159 to 200.
Paul Ricœur (1913–2005) was one of the first to introduce phenomenology to France. He was best known for combining phenomenological description with hermeneutics. He was awarded the Kyoto prize in arts and philosophy for having "revolutionized the methods of hermeneutic phenomenology, expanding the study of textual interpretation to include the broad yet concrete domains of mythology, biblical exegesis, psychoanalysis, theory of metaphor, and narrative theory.
^ a b c Henri Bergson (1946), The Creative Mind: An Introduction to Metaphysics, pages 159 to 200.
^ Gargani Julien (2011), Voyage aux marges du savoir : ethno-sociologie de la connaissance, L’Harmattan, p. 168
^ Gilles Deleuze (1925–1995) – The Internet Encyclopaedia of Philosophy.
Descartes then claimed that because he discovered the Cogito through perceiving it clearly and distinctly, anything he can perceive clearly and distinctly must be true. Then he argues that he can conceive of an infinite being, but finite beings cannot produce infinite ideas and hence an infinite being must have put the idea into his mind. He uses this argument, commonly known as an ontological argument, to invoke the existence of an omni-benevolent God as the indubitable foundation that makes all sciences possible. Many people admired Descartes intentions, but were unsatisfied with this solution. Some accused him of circularity, proclaiming his ontological argument uses his definition of truth as a premise, while his proof of his definition of truth uses his ontological argument as a premise. Hence the problems of solipsism, truth and the existence of the external world came to dominate 17th century western thought.
Lecture 25: The Age of Ideologies (3): The World of Auguste Comte
This section of the article references the Roy Harris translation of the book.
Jean Baudrillard (1929–2007)was concerned with the concealment of the fact that there are no truths in a given field. He termed this concealment simulacra. An example he gives is the Borges story of an Empire that creates a map which was so accurate that it laid over and covered the entire city it mapped. The map grew when the Empire grew, and decayed when the empire decayed. When the empire was destroyed, the only object left was the map. For Baudrillard, people live in the map and hence reality crumbles because of misuse.[24] Eventually, the difference between reality and illusion becomes indistinguishable for the consciousness. Baudrillard called this hyperreality. An example of this is reality television, which is dependent on the watcher embracing it to create the illusion that it mirrors reality.
Henri Bergson was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1927 "in recognition of his rich and vitalizing ideas and the brilliant skill with which they have been presented".[11]
This section of the article references René Descartes’ Discourse on Method and Meditations on First Philosophy.
Lecture 25: The Age of Ideologies (3): The World of Auguste Comte The History Guide (2000)
^ Phillips, John W. "Structural Linguistics and Anthropology". National University of Singapore.
Philosophy of science is a branch of philosophy concerned with the foundations, methods,[12] and implications of science. The central questions of this study concern what qualifies as science, the reliability of scientific theories, and the ultimate purpose of science. In France, philosophy of science, also known as French historical epistemology[13][14] or French epistemology,[15] was a prominent school of thought with Henri Poincaré, Émile Meyerson, Pierre Duhem, Léon Brunschvicg, Gaston Bachelard, Alexandre Koyré, Jean Cavaillès, Georges Canguilhem, Jules Vuillemin, Michel Serres, and Jean-Michel Berthelot.
The Journal of French and Francophone Philosophy – the online home of the Bulletin de la Société Américaine de Philosophie de Langue Française
^ Gargani Julien (2012), Poincaré, le hasard et l'étude des systèmes complexes, L’Harmattan, p. 124
Gargani Julien (2012), Poincaré, le hasard et l'étude des systèmes complexes, L’Harmattan, p. 124
^ E. Reck (ed.), The Historical Turn in Analytic Philosophy, Springer, 2016: ch. 2.1.
^ "Nobel Prize in Literature 1927". Nobel Foundation. Retrieved 2008-10-17.
Existentialism was a prominent school of thought in the first half of the 20th century. Traditionally, existentialism is concerned with the human condition, exploring such topics as purpose, freedom and the experience of the other. It can trace its roots back to philosophers such as Søren Kierkegaard, Friedrich Nietzsche and Martin Heidegger, as well as Lebensphilosophie, but bloomed with the thought of French phenomenologist Jean-Paul Sartre.
Simone Weil (1909–1943) was a French philosopher, mystic and political activist who greatly influenced 20th century philosophy including influencing Pope Paul VI. Her notable ideas include decreation (renouncing the gift of free will as a form of acceptance of everything that is independent of one's particular desires; making "something created pass into the uncreated"), uprootedness (déracinement), patriotism of compassion, abolition of political parties, the unjust character of affliction (malheur), and that compassion must act in the area of metaxy.
Comte attempted to introduce a cohesive "religion of humanity" which, though largely unsuccessful, was influential in the development of various Secular Humanist organizations in the 19th century. He also created and defined the term "altruism".[6]
René Descartes was concerned with the uncertainty in the sciences and the radical scepticism which spread across Europe when publications of Sextus Empiricus became available. Descartes desired to find indubitable ground on which all the sciences could be placed and progressively built. Thus he rejected anything which appeared uncertain and decided to only accept apodeictic knowledge as truth.
^ Conversations on Science, Culture, and Time: Michel Serres Interviewed by Bruno Latour, University of Michigan Press, 1995, p. 8.
Gaston Bachelard (1884–1962) introduced the concepts of epistemological obstacle and epistemological break (obstacle épistémologique and rupture épistémologique).
Phillips, John W. "Structural Linguistics and Anthropology". National University of Singapore.
^ Chambers Biographical Dictionary, 2011, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 0-550-18022-2, page 3
Charles de Secondat, baron de Montesquieu (1689–1755) was a social commentator and political philosopher. His theories deeply influenced the American Founders. His belief that the state powers be separated into legislative, executive, and judicial branches formed the basis for separation of powers under the United States Constitution. In The Spirit of the Laws, Montesquieu outlined the view that man and societies are influenced by climate. He believed that hotter climates create hot-tempered people and colder climates aloof people, whereas the mild climate of France is ideal for political systems. This theory may possibly have been influenced by similar sentiment expressed in Germania, an ethnographic writing by Tacitus, a writer frequently studied by Montesquieu.
Gilles Deleuze (1925–1995) developed a philosophy of difference which valued the simulacrum higher than the idea and its copy, which is an inversion of Plato’s method, which held the idea and its copy in high esteem and neglected the simulacrum. He saw difference as prior to identity and reason as not all-encompassing, but a little haven built in the duration of difference-in-itself. He likened it to Christianity, where if you accept original sin and immaculate conception, then it all makes sense. Deleuze also developed a constructivist view of philosophy as the job of developing concepts, just like it is the poet’s job to produce poems and the painter’s job to paint paintings. For these reasons, Deleuze developed an idiosyncratic way of reading philosophers which he once referred to as buggery. He would use them as stepping stones for creating new concepts which appear to belong to the philosopher he’s reading, but are utterly different. An example is that of Spinoza, whom Deleuze read as an empiricist.[25]
"The Hope of Salvation for Infants Who Die Without Being Baptised"
Malebranche was well-known and celebrated in his own time, but has since become somewhat of an obscure figure in the history of western philosophy. His philosophy had a profound effect on it, however, through its influence upon Spinoza and Hume, whose problem of causation was influenced by Malebranche’s occasionalism. It’s possible that Malebranche also influenced George Berkeley, although he rejects any association with Malebranche beyond superficial similarities.
^ Lecture 25: The Age of Ideologies (3): The World of Auguste Comte The History Guide (2000)
Jean-François Lyotard (1924–1998) defined postmodernism as scepticism toward metanarratives. A metanarrative is a kind of grand arching story that encompasses - and claims to predict - everything. An example is Marxism, which explains the communist as the inevitable historical synthesis of the proletariat and capitalist of modern capitalist class division. Lyotard considered the metanarrative an essential feature of modernity. Hence the postmodern condition is the replacement of metanarratives with a multiplicity of micro-narratives, or to call them the appellation Lyotard gave them, language games. Lyotard maintained that these language games lack any all-embracing structure but were brought about by technological developments in such fields as communication and mass media making metanarratives indefensible.[22]
Hélène Cixous (born 1937) developed a feminist interpretation of post-structuralism most influenced by Derrida. She argued that patriarchal cultures build male domination into their language and literary canon, and that a feminist revolution must account for this. She urged female writers to adopt deconstructionist methods and forward their own vision of life as a woman.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau (1712–1778) distinguished himself from the progressive scientism of the Enlightenment with his proclamation in Discourse on the Arts and Sciences that art and science are corruptors of human morality. Furthermore, he caused controversy with his theory that man is good by nature but corrupted by society, which is a direct contradiction of the Christian doctrine of original sin. Some of his theories continue to be controversial, such as his idea called the general will, which has been both accused of fascism and praised for its socialist ideals. Rousseau’s thought highly influenced the French Revolution, his critique of private property has been seen as a forebear to Marxist ideology, and his picture was the only one to grace the home of Immanuel Kant. He was so highly praised by the French revolutionists, that in 1794 his remains were moved to the Panthéon in Paris.
Philosophical consultancy is a relatively new movement in philosophy that applies philosophical thinking and debating to the resolution of a person's problem. Achenbach argues that it is life that calls to thinking, rather than thinking that informs life. The act of philosophising can, therefore, give direction in its own right, as living precedes thinking and practice precedes theory.
Weiss, M. N., (ed.) (2015) The Socratic Handbook - Dialogue Methods for Philosophical Practice, Vienna: LIT.
Deurzen, E. van (1988) Existential Counselling in Practice, London: Sage Publications.
Lahav, R. and Tillmanns, M. da V. (eds) (1995) Essays in Philosophical Counselling, Lanham, MD: University Press of America.
In India an academic course in philosophical counselling is offered by the Department of Philosophy, Panjab University, Chandigarh and the University of Kerala.[11][12] In 2020, a project in philosophical counseling in India was awarded by the Ministry of Education to the Department of Philosophy, Panjab University, Chandigarh.[13]
Deurzen, E. van (1994x) Does Counselling Help?, Durham: Durham University Publications.
Philosophical consultancy, also sometimes called philosophical practice or philosophical counseling or clinical philosophy, is a contemporary movement in practical philosophy.Developing since the 1980s as a profession but since the 1950s as a practice, practitioners of philosophical counseling ordinarily have a doctorate or minimally a master's degree in philosophy and offer their philosophical counseling or consultation services to clients who look for a philosophical understanding of their lives, social problems, or even mental problems. In the last case, philosophical counseling might be in lieu of, or in conjunction with, psychotherapy. The movement has often been said to be rooted in the Socratic tradition, which viewed philosophy as a search for the Good and the good life. A life without philosophy was not worth living for Socrates. This led to the philosophy of Stoicism, for example, resulting in Stoic therapy.[1]
Marinoff, L. (1999) Plato not Prozac, New York: Harper Collins.
Elliot D. Cohen. "Philosophy with Teeth: The Wedding of Philosophical and Psychological Practices". Retrieved 2011-09-09.
Gerd B. Achenbach and Ad Hoogendijk are two German and Dutch philosophers who established themselves as consultant philosophers in the 1980s[3][4] and led the way to a number of other developments all over the world. They proposed an alternative to psychotherapeutic culture by working exclusively within the field of existential investigation with clients or patients, whom they called 'visitors'.
^ a b Raabe, P. (2001). Philosophical Counseling. Westport, CT: Praeger.
Curnow, Trevor, ed. (June 2001). Thinking through dialogue: essays on philosophy in practice. Practical Philosophy Press. p. 256. ISBN 978-0954178307.
the exposure and examination of underlying assumptions and logical implications
Deurzen, E. van (1984) Existential psychotherapy, in W Dryden (ed.) Individual Therapy in Britain, London: Harper and Row.
"MA PHILOSOPHY – SCHEME AND SYLLABUS" (PDF). keralauniversity.ac.in. Retrieved 2021-05-22.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Some philosophical practitioners, notably Louis Marinoff (U.S.) and Guenther Witzany (Austria), view philosophical practice as a separate practice area distinct from mental health practices such as psychology and mental health counseling;[18] while others, notably Elliot D. Cohen (U.S.), think they are necessarily intertwined.[19] Some philosophical counselors draw inspiration from the anti-psychiatry movement, arguing that widespread mental health diagnostic criteria as outlined in DSM IV have unfairly or inaccurately pathologized humanity.[20]
"Faculty of Arts Syllabi for M.A. Philosophy (Semester System) Examinations, 2018–2019"
Peter Koestenbaum at San Jose State University in California was an early figure in philosophical counseling. His 1978 book The New Image of the Person: The Theory and Practice of Clinical Philosophy set out the essential contributions of philosophy to counseling.[2]: 31  His own practice was augmented by extensive training of mental health professionals in applications of philosophical principles.
"Global Initiative of Academic Networks (GIAN): Approved Courses". gian.iitkgp.ac.in. Retrieved 2020-08-06.
^ Schuster, S.C. (1999). Philosophy Practice: An Alternative to Counseling and Psychotherapy. Westport, CT:Praeger; cf. Michel Weber's own blend of praxis.
Weiss, M.N., ed. (2015). The Socratic Handbook - Dialogue Methods for Philosophical Practice. Vienna: LIT. ISBN 978-3-643-90659-5.
According to a New York Times article on philosophical counseling, "only Cohen and Marinoff have branded easily comprehended techniques. Cohen's logic-based therapy builds on the work of his mentor Albert Ellis, who invented rational emotive behavior therapy."[9]
^ "Global Initiative of Academic Networks (GIAN): Approved Courses". gian.iitkgp.ac.in. Retrieved 2020-08-06.
Hall, R. (2021) Secundum Naturam (According to Nature), Stoic Therapy, LLC.
the exploration of traditional philosophical theories and their significance for client issues
^ "MA PHILOSOPHY – SCHEME AND SYLLABUS" (PDF). keralauniversity.ac.in. Retrieved 2021-05-22.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
all other related activities that have historically been identified as philosophical.[15]
"Philosophy with Teeth: The Wedding of Philosophical and Psychological Practices"
^ Achenbach, G. B. (1984) Philosophische Praxis, Köln: Verlag für Philosophie Jürgen Dinter.
Deurzen, E. van (2002) Existential Counselling and Psychotherapy in Practice, Second Edition, London: Sage Publications.
In 2021, a movement related to philosophical counseling started in Bangladesh too. Bangladeshi philosopher, researcher Morsalin Islam Shouradip began this movement by working as philosophical counselor.[14]
The world's oldest association of philosophical counseling and practice appears to be the German Society for Philosophical Practice and Counseling, which was founded in 1982 by Achenbach.[5] In the United States, the oldest association of philosophical counseling and practice appears to be the National Philosophical Counseling Association (NPCA), formerly called the American Society for Philosophy, Counseling, and Psychotherapy, which was co-founded in 1992 by three American philosophers, Elliot D. Cohen, Paul Sharkey, and Thomas Magnell. The NPCA offers a primary certificate in logic-based therapy (LBT) through the Institute of Critical Thinking.[6]
Deurzen, E. van (1992) Dialogue as therapy, Journal of the Society for Existential Analysis 3: 15-23.
^ See, e.g., Z. Kotkowicz (1997). R.D. Laing and the Paths of Anti-Psychiatry, NY: Routledge
Guenther Witzany (ed) (1991). Zur Theorie der Philosophischen Praxis. Essen. ISBN 3-89206-407-5.
^ See, for example: Lahav and Tillmans 1995, Grimes, 1998, Curnow 2001, Herrestad et al. 2002, Marinoff 1999, Rochelle 2008, 2011, Weiss 2015.
"Faculty of Arts Syllabi for M.A. Philosophy (Semester System) Examinations, 2018–2019" (PDF). puchd.ac.in. September 2018. Retrieved 2020-08-06..
Philosophical practice has continued to expand and is attractive as an alternative to counselling and psychotherapy for those who prefer to avoid a medicalization of life problems. Numerous philosophical consultants have emerged and there is a strong international interest and a bi-annual international conference.
This page was last edited on 14 September 2021, at 01:01 (UTC).
^ Hoogendijk, A. (1988) Spreekuur bij een filosoof, Utrecht: Veers
See, e.g., Z. Kotkowicz (1997). R.D. Laing and the Paths of Anti-Psychiatry, NY: Routledge
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Hall, R. "Secundum Naturam (According to Nature)". Retrieved 2021-02-15.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Hall, R. "Secundum Naturam (According to Nature)". Retrieved 2021-02-15.
^ Weiss, M.N., ed. (2015). The Socratic Handbook - Dialogue Methods for Philosophical Practice. Vienna: LIT. ISBN 978-3-643-90659-5.
Philosophical practice has continued to expand and is attractive as an alternative to counselling and psychotherapy for those who prefer to avoid a medicalization of life problems. Numerous philosophical consultants have emerged and there is a strong international interest and a bi-annual international conference. There are a number of important publications in the field.[10] There are presently a number of professional associations for philosophical counseling throughout the world.
The methods and orientations of philosophical counselors vary greatly.[16] Some practitioners, such as Gerd B. Achenbach (Germany), Michel Weber (Belgium) and Shlomit C. Schuster (Israel) are dialogical and dialective engaged, while confessing to a "beyond method" approach. They hold that philosophical counseling has the aim to empower clients' philosophical abilities, which additionally may have therapeutic implications.[17] Other practitioners are more directive and view philosophical counseling as a form of mental health intervention.[2][page needed]
Duane, Daniel (2004-03-21). "The Socratic Shrink". The New York Times. Retrieved 2011-09-09.
Pierre Grimes founded the Noetic Society in 1967 for the study of dialogue and dialectic. He became the head of the Philosophical Midwifery Program when the Noetic Society was incorporated in 1978.[7]
According to the Preamble of the NPCA Standards of Practice,
Achenbach, G. B. (1984) Philosophische Praxis, Köln: Verlag für Philosophie Jürgen Dinter.
^ a b Duane, Daniel (2004-03-21). "The Socratic Shrink". The New York Times. Retrieved 2011-09-09.
Achenbach, G.B. (2002) Philosophical Practice opens up the trace to Lebenskönnerschaft, in Herrestad H., Holt A., Svare H. Philosophy in Society, Oslo: Unipub Forlag.
The movement is also connected with and related to existential therapy, which has thrived in the United Kingdom since the establishment of the Society for Existential Analysis (SEA) in London in 1988. This was based on the work of Emmy van Deurzen, also a philosopher who has applied philosophical thinking to the practice of psychotherapy. Philosophical consultancy is often applied to business consultancy as well as to individuals, as it frequently involves a rethinking of values and beliefs and is also a method for rational conflict resolution.
^ Guenther Witzany (ed) (1991). Zur Theorie der Philosophischen Praxis. Essen. ISBN 3-89206-407-5.
Deurzen, E. van (1994c) If Truth were a Woman, London: School of Psychotherapy and Counselling Publications.
See, for example: Lahav and Tillmans 1995, Grimes, 1998, Curnow 2001, Herrestad et al. 2002, Marinoff 1999, Rochelle 2008, 2011, Weiss 2015.
^ Elliot D. Cohen. "Philosophy with Teeth: The Wedding of Philosophical and Psychological Practices". Retrieved 2011-09-09.
^ "Faculty of Arts Syllabi for M.A. Philosophy (Semester System) Examinations, 2018–2019" (PDF). puchd.ac.in. September 2018. Retrieved 2020-08-06..
Deurzen, E. van 1998) Paradox and Passion in Psychotherapy, Chichester: Wiley.
Schuster, S.C. (1999). Philosophy Practice: An Alternative to Counseling and Psychotherapy. Westport, CT:Praeger; cf. Michel Weber's own blend of praxis.
Herrestad H., Holt A., Svare H. (2002) Philosophy in Society, Oslo: Unipub Forlag.
the clarification, analysis, and definition of important terms and concepts
Silvia Fazzo, "Lo Stemma Codicum della Metafisica di Aristotele", Revue d'Histoire des Textes, XII, 2017, 35-58.
Volume II: The Composition of the Metaphysics, ISBN 978-3-9815841-3-4, Saldenburg 2015;
^ (Dieter Harlfinger in 1979"Zur Überlieferungsgeschichte der Metaphysik", in Pierre Aubenque (ed.), Essais sur la Métaphysique d'Aristote, Paris, Vrin, 1979)
Editing the Metaphysics has become an open issue in works and studies of the new millennium. New critical editions have been produced of books Gamma,[20] Alpha,[21] and Lambda.[22]Differences from the more-familiar 20th Century critical editions of Ross and Jaeger mainly depend on the stemma codicum of Aristotle's Metaphysics, of which different versions have been proposed since 1970.[23][24][25]
^ (Silvia Fazzo, Il libro Lambda della Metafisica di Aristotele, "Elenchos", Bibliopolis 2012, and Stefan Alexandru, Aristotle's Metaphysics Lambda, Philosophia Antiqua, Brill 2014)
2.1Books I–VI: Alpha, little Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta and Epsilon
The Metaphysics is considered to be one of the greatest philosophical works. Its influence on the Greeks, the Muslim philosophers, Maimonides thence the scholastic philosophers and even writers such as Dante[12] was immense.
In the 19th century, with the rise of textual criticism, the Metaphysics was examined anew. Critics, noting the wide variety of topics and the seemingly illogical order of the books, concluded that it was actually a collection of shorter works thrown together haphazardly. In the 20th century two general editions have been produced by W. D. Ross (1924) and by W. Jaeger (1957). Based on a careful study of the content and of the cross-references within them, W. D. Ross concluded that books A, B, Γ, E, Z, H, Θ, M, N, and I "form a more or less continuous work", while the remaining books α, Δ, Κ and Λ were inserted into their present locations by later editors.However, Ross cautions that books A, B, Γ, E, Z, H, Θ, M, N, and I — with or without the insertion of the others — do not constitute "a complete work".[19] Werner Jaeger further maintained that the different books were taken from different periods of Aristotle's life. Everyman's Library, for their 1000th volume, published the Metaphysics in a rearranged order that was intended to make the work easier for readers.[clarification needed]
^ Monad And Dyad As Cosmic Principles In Syrianus, Soul And The Structure Of Being In Late Neoplatonism, H.J. Blumenthal and A.C. Lloyd, Liverpool University Press, 1982, pp. 1–10.
Metaphysics (Greek: τὰ μετὰ τὰ φυσικά, "those after the physics"; Latin: Metaphysica[1]) is one of the principal works of Aristotle, in which he develops the doctrine that he calls First Philosophy.[a] The work is a compilation of various texts treating abstract subjects, notably substance theory, different kinds of causation, form and matter, the existence of mathematical objects and the cosmos, which together constitute much of the branch of philosophy later known as metaphysics.
Wolfgang Class: Aristotle's Metaphysics, A Philological Commentary:Volume I: Textual Criticism, ISBN 978-3-9815841-2-7, Saldenburg 2014;Volume II: The Composition of the Metaphysics, ISBN 978-3-9815841-3-4, Saldenburg 2015;Volume III: Sources and Parallels, ISBN 978-3-9815841-6-5, Saldenburg 2017;Volume IV: Reception and Criticism, ISBN 978-3-9820267-0-1, Saldenburg 2018.
The second book was given the title "little alpha," apparently because it appears to have nothing to do with the other books (and, very early, it was supposed not to have been written by Aristotle) or, although this is less likely,[citation needed] because of its shortness. This, then, disrupts the correspondence of letters to numbers, as book 2 is little alpha, book 3 is beta, and so on.
^ Robert Maynard Hutchins (1952), Great Books of the Western World 8: Aristotle, p. 495.
Books I–VI: Alpha, little Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta and Epsilon[edit]
^ Donald J. Zeyl, Daniel Devereux, Phillip Mitsis, (1997), Encyclopedia of Classical Philosophy, page 20.
This page was last edited on 28 January 2023, at 07:29 (UTC).
Finally, he concludes book Zeta by arguing that substance is really a cause.[j][10]
William W. Fortenbaugh, R. W. Sharples, (2005), Theophrastus of Eresus, sources for his life, writings, thought and Influence, page 22. BRILL
Averroes' commentary on the Metaphysics, in Latin, together with the 'old' (Arabic) and new translation based on William of Moerbeke at Gallica.
Gerson, Lloyd P. (ed.) and Joseph Owens, 2007, Aristotle’s Gradations of being in Metaphysics E-Z, South Bend: St Augustine’s Press.
Aristotle's Metaphysics. Translated by Lawson-Tancred, Hugh. Penguin. 1998. ISBN 0140446192.
Aristotle then describes own theory, that essence is the criterion of substantiality.[h]The essence of something is what is included in a secundum se ('according to itself') account of a thing, i.e. which tells what a thing is by its very nature.You are not musical by your very nature. But you are a human by your very nature.Your essence is what is mentioned in the definition of you.
τὰ περὶ τῆς πρώτης φιλοσοφίας e.g., in Movement of Animals 700b9
Aristotle then considers, and dismisses, the idea that substance is the universal or the genus, criticizing the Platonic theory of Ideas.[i][clarification needed]
probably the Kitab al-huruf, ed. by Muhsin Mahdi as Alfarabi's Book of Letters (Beyrouth, 1969)
Books Zeta, Eta, and Theta are generally considered the core of the Metaphysics.[citation needed] Book Zeta (VII) begins by stating that "being" has several senses, the purpose of philosophy is to understand the primary kind of being, called substance (ousia) and determine what substances there are, a concept that Aristotle develops in the Categories.[8]Zeta goes on to consider four candidates for substance: (i) the ‘essence’ or ‘what it is to be’ of a thing (ii) the universal, (iii) the genus to which a substance belongs and (iv) the material substrate or which underlies all the properties of a thing.
Book III or Beta lists the main problems or puzzles (aporia) of philosophy.[7]
Alexandrou, S., 2014, Aristotle’s Metaphysics Lambda: Annotated Critical Edition, Leiden: Brill.
Ackrill, J. L., 1963, Aristotle: Categories and De Interpretatione, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
He called the study of nature or natural philosophy "second philosophy"[4]
2Outline											Toggle Outline subsection																					2.1Books I–VI: Alpha, little Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta and Epsilon																											2.2Books VII–IX: Zeta, Eta, and Theta																											2.3Books X–XIV: Iota, Kappa, Lambda, Mu, and Nu
W. D. Ross, Aristotle's Metaphysics (1953), vol. 1, p. xxxii.
^ Silvia Fazzo, "Lo Stemma Codicum della Metafisica di Aristotele", Revue d'Histoire des Textes, XII, 2017, 35-58.
^ W. D. Ross, Aristotle's Metaphysics (1953), vol. 1, p. xxxii.
Robert Maynard Hutchins (1952), Great Books of the Western World 8: Aristotle, p. 495.
William E. Gohlam (ed.). The Life of Ibn Sina, Albany, State of New York University Press, 1974, pp. 33-35).
Gill, Mary Louise, 1989, Aristotle on Substance: The Paradox of Unity, Princeton: Princeton University Press.
English translation by W. D. Ross at MIT's Internet Classics Archive.
Aristotle: Metaphysics entry by Joe Sachs in the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy
Many of Aristotle's works are extremely compressed and thus baffling to beginners, and many scholars believe that in their current form, they are little more than lecture notes.[2] Subsequent to the arrangement of Aristotle's works by Andronicus of Rhodes in the first century BC, a number of his treatises were referred to as the writings "after ("meta") the Physics."[b], the origin of the current title for the collection Metaphysics.Some[who?] have interpreted the expression "meta" to imply that the subject of the work goes "beyond" that of Aristotle's Physics or that it is metatheoretical in relation to the Physics.But others[who?] believe that "meta" referred simply to the work's place in the canonical arrangement of Aristotle's writings, which is at least as old as Andronicus of Rhodes or even Hermippus of Smyrna.[3]In other surviving works of Aristotle, the metaphysical treatises are referred to as"the [writings] concerning first philosophy"[c]; which was the term Aristotle used for metaphysics.[d]
^ William W. Fortenbaugh, R. W. Sharples, (2005), Theophrastus of Eresus, sources for his life, writings, thought and Influence, page 22. BRILL
Anagnostopoulos, Georgios (ed.), 2009, A Companion to Aristotle, Chichester: Wiley-Blackwell.
Cohen, S. Marc. "Aristotle's Metaphysics".In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
Donald J. Zeyl, Daniel Devereux, Phillip Mitsis, (1997), Encyclopedia of Classical Philosophy, page 20.
Aristotle's Metaphysics. Translated by Sachs, Joe (2nd ed.). Santa Fe, N.M.: Green Lion Press. 2002. ISBN 1-888009-03-9..
sometimes referred to as Wisdom, sometimes as , and sometimes as Theology
^ E.g. J.A.K. Thomson, The Ethics of Aristotle, (Penguin, 1953) p. 13 and E. Barker The Political Thought of Plato and Aristotle (Dover, 1959) p. 65.
Book I or Alpha begins by discussing the nature of knowledge and compares knowledge gained from the senses and from memory, arguing that knowledge is acquired from memory through experience.[6] It then defines "wisdom"(sophia) as a knowledge of the first principles(arche) or causes of things. Because those who are wise understand the first principles and causes, they know the why of things, unlike those who only know that things are a certain way based on their memory and sensations. The wise are able to teach because they know the why of things, and so they are better fitted to command, rather than to obey. He then surveys the first principles and causes of previous philosophers, starting with the material monists of the Ionian school and continuing up until Plato.
E.g. J.A.K. Thomson, The Ethics of Aristotle, (Penguin, 1953) p. 13 and E. Barker The Political Thought of Plato and Aristotle (Dover, 1959) p. 65.
Greek text with English: Metaphysics. Trans. Hugh Tredennick. 2 vols. Loeb Classical Library 271, 287. Harvard U. Press, 1933–35. ISBN 0-674-99299-7, ISBN 0-674-99317-9.
^ The second book was given the title "little alpha," apparently because it appears to have nothing to do with the other books (and, very early, it was supposed not to have been written by Aristotle) or, although this is less likely,[citation needed] because of its shortness. This, then, disrupts the correspondence of letters to numbers, as book 2 is little alpha, book 3 is beta, and so on.
Book XII or Lambda: Further remarks on beings in general, first principles, and God or gods. This book includes Aristotle's famous description of the unmoved mover, "the most divine of things observed by us", as "the thinking of thinking".
Aristotle argues that if genus and species are individual things, then different species of the same genus contain the genus as individual thing, which leads to absurdities.Moreover, individuals are incapable of definition.
The Fourth Crusade (1202-1204) facilitated the discovery and delivery of many original Greek manuscripts to Western Europe. William of Moerbeke's translations of the work formed the basis of the commentaries on the Metaphysics by Albert the Great, Thomas Aquinas and Duns Scotus. They were also used by modern scholars for Greek editions, as William had access to Greek manuscripts that are now lost.Werner Jaeger lists William's translation in his edition of the Greek text in the Scriptorum Classicorum Bibliotheca Oxoniensis (Oxford 1962).[18]
Book V or Delta ("philosophical lexicon") is a list of definitions of about thirty key terms such as cause, nature, one, and many.
Book VI or Epsilon has two main concerns. The first concern is the hierarchy of the sciences: productive, practical or theoretical. Aristotle considers theoretical sciences superior because they study beings for their own sake—for example, Physics studies beings that can be moved[f]—and do not have a target (Telos (τέλος), end or goal; τέλειος, complete or perfect) beyond themselves. He argues that the study of being qua being, or First Philosophy, is superior to all the other theoretical sciences because it is concerned the ultimate causes of all reality, not just the secondary causes of a part of reality. The second concern of Epsilon is the study of "accidents"[g], those attributes that do not depend on (τέχνη) or exist by necessity, which Aristotle believes do not deserve to be studied as a science.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Todd, Robert B. (2003). "Themistius" (PDF). Catalogus Translationum et Commentariorum. 8: 59. Retrieved 25 August 2015.
6Editions and Translations											Toggle Editions and Translations subsection																					6.1Ancient and Medieval Commentaries																											6.2References
Cited by Foster, in his translation of Aquinas' commentary on the De Anima, Indiana 1994.
Book Eta consists of a summary of what has been said so far (i.e., in Book Zeta) about substance, and adds a few further details regarding difference and unity.
^ Cited by Foster, in his translation of Aquinas' commentary on the De Anima, Indiana 1994.
^ S. Fazzo, ‘Sì come rota ch'igualmente è mossa’. Dalla Metafisica di Aristotele al Paradiso di Dante, Storie e linguaggi, Vol 4, N° 2 (2018)
Book II or "little alpha": Book II addresses a possible objection to the account of how we understand first principles and thus acquire wisdom, that attempting to discover the first principle would lead to an infinite series of causes.It argues in response that idea of an infinite causal series is absurd, and argues that only things that are created or destroyed require a cause, and that thus there must be a primary cause that is eternal, an idea he develops later in Book Lambda.
^ τὰ περὶ τῆς πρώτης φιλοσοφίας e.g., in Movement of Animals 700b9
Greek text with commentary: Aristotle's Metaphysics.W. D. Ross.2 vols.Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1924.Reprinted 1953 with corrections.
(Dieter Harlfinger in 1979"Zur Überlieferungsgeschichte der Metaphysik", in Pierre Aubenque (ed.), Essais sur la Métaphysique d'Aristote, Paris, Vrin, 1979)
Copleston, Frederick, S.J.A History of Philosophy: Volume I Greece and Rome (Parts I and II) New York: Image Books, 1962.
^ probably the Kitab al-huruf, ed. by Muhsin Mahdi as Alfarabi's Book of Letters (Beyrouth, 1969)
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Todd, Robert B. (2003). "Themistius" (PDF). Catalogus Translationum et Commentariorum. 8: 59. Retrieved 25 August 2015.
It is notoriously difficult to specify the date at which Aristotle wrote these treatises as a whole or even individually, especially because the Metaphysics is, in Jonathan Barnes' words, "a farrago, a hotch-potch", and more generally because of the difficulty of dating any of Aristotle's writings.[5] The order in which the books were written is not known; their arrangement is due to later editors. In the manuscripts, books are referred to by Greek letters. For many scholars, it is customary to refer to the books by their letter names. Book 1 is called Alpha (Α); 2, little alpha (α);[e] 3, Beta (Β); 4, Gamma (Γ); 5, Delta (Δ); 6, Epsilon (Ε); 7, Zeta (Ζ); 8, Eta (Η); 9, Theta (Θ); 10, Iota (Ι); 11, Kappa (Κ); 12, Lambda (Λ); 13, Mu (Μ); 14, Nu (Ν).
Jonathan Barnes, "Life and Work" in The Cambridge Companion to Aristotle (1995), pp. 18-22."Farrago": Barnes, "Metaphysics" in The Cambridge Companion to Aristotle, p. 68.
^ William E. Gohlam (ed.). The Life of Ibn Sina, Albany, State of New York University Press, 1974, pp. 33-35).
He dismisses the idea that matter can be substance, for if we eliminate everything that is a property from what can have the property, such as matter and the shape, we are left with something that has no properties at all. Such 'ultimate matter' cannot be substance.Separability and 'this-ness' are fundamental to our concept of substance.[9]
Books XIII and XIV, or Mu and Nu: Philosophy of mathematics, in particular how numbers exist.
Monad And Dyad As Cosmic Principles In Syrianus, Soul And The Structure Of Being In Late Neoplatonism, H.J. Blumenthal and A.C. Lloyd, Liverpool University Press, 1982, pp. 1–10.
^ Jonathan Barnes, "Life and Work" in The Cambridge Companion to Aristotle (1995), pp. 18-22."Farrago": Barnes, "Metaphysics" in The Cambridge Companion to Aristotle, p. 68.
A good summary of scholarly comments at: Theory and History of Ontology
Book Theta sets out to define potentiality and actuality. Chapters 1–5 discuss potentiality,[k] the potential of something to change: potentiality is "a principle of change in another thing or in the thing itself qua other."[l] In chapter 6 Aristotle turns to actuality. We can only know actuality through observation or "analogy;" thus "as that which builds is to that which is capable of building, so is that which is awake to that which is asleep...or that which is separated from matter to matter itself".[11] Actuality is the completed state of something that had the potential to be completed. The relationship between actuality and potentiality can be thought of as the relationship between form and matter, but with the added aspect of time. Actuality and potentiality are distinctions that occur over time (diachronic), whereas form and matter are distinctions that can be made at fixed points in time (synchronic).
(Silvia Fazzo, Il libro Lambda della Metafisica di Aristotele, "Elenchos", Bibliopolis 2012, and Stefan Alexandru, Aristotle's Metaphysics Lambda, Philosophia Antiqua, Brill 2014)
^ He called the study of nature or natural philosophy "second philosophy"[4]
Available bundled with Organon and other works – can be downloaded as .epub, .mobi and other formats.
^ (Silvio Bernardinello, Eliminatio codicum della Metafisica di Aristotele, Padua, Antenore, 1970)
The flourishing of Arabic Aristotelian scholarship reached its peak with the work of Ibn Rushd (Latinized: Averroes), whose extensive writings on Aristotle's work led to his later designation as "The Commentator" by future generations of scholars.Maimonides wrote the Guide to the Perplexed in the 12th century, to demonstrate the compatibility of Aristotelian science with Biblical revelation.
Aristotle's works gained a reputation for complextiy that is most evident than in the Metaphysics — Avicenna said that he had read the Metaphysics of Aristotle forty times, but did not understand it until he also read al-Farabi's Purposes of the Metaphysics of Aristotle..mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}
I read the Metaphysics [of Aristotle], but I could not comprehend its contents, and its author's object remained obscure to me, even when I had gone back and read it forty times and had got to the point where I had memorized it. In spite of this I could not understand it nor its object, and I despaired of myself and said, "This is a book which there is no way of understanding." But one day in the afternoon when I was at the booksellers' quarter a salesman approached with a book in his hand which he was calling out for sale. (...) So I bought it and, lo and behold, it was Abu Nasr al-Farabi's book[m] on the objects of the Metaphysics. I returned home and was quick to read it, and in no time the objects of that book became clear to me because I had got to the point of having memorized it by heart.[17]
(Silvio Bernardinello, Eliminatio codicum della Metafisica di Aristotele, Padua, Antenore, 1970)
Commentary on Aristotle's Metaphysics. Dominican House of Studies in Washington, D.C. (in Greek, Latin, and English). Vol. 3. Translated by Aquinas, Thomas; Rowan, John P. William of Moerbeke (1st ed.). Chicago: Henry Regnery Company (Library of Living Catholic Thought). 1961. OCLC 312731. Archived from the original on October 28, 2011.{{cite book}}:CS1 maint: others (link) (rpt. Notre Dame, Ind.: Dumb Ox, 1995).
In the 3rd century, Alexander of Aphrodisias wrote a commentary on the first five books of the Metaphysics,[13] and a commentary transmitted under his name exists for the final nine, but modern scholars doubt that this part was written by him.[14] Themistius wrote an epitome of the work, of which book 12 survivies in a Hebrew translation.[15] The Neoplatonists Syrianus and Asclepius of Tralles also wrote commentaries on the work, where they attempted to synthesize Aristotle's doctrines with Neoplatoniccosmology.[16]
Books I–VI: Alpha, little Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta and Epsilon
Aristotle's Metaphysics. Trans. Hippocrates Gorgias Apostle. Bloomington: Indiana U. Press, 1966.
Parva NaturaliaSense and SensibiliaOn MemoryOn SleepOn DreamsOn Divination in SleepOn Length and Shortness of LifeOn Youth, Old Age, Life and Death, and Respiration
^ sometimes referred to as Wisdom, sometimes as , and sometimes as Theology
Book XI or Kappa: Briefer versions of other chapters and of parts of the Physics.
Elders, L., 1972, Aristotle’s Theology: A Commentary on Book Λ of the Metaphysics, Assen: Van Gorcum.
Book X or Iota: Discussion of unity, one and many, sameness and difference.
Greek text: Aristotelis Metaphysica. Ed. Werner Jaeger. Oxford Classical Texts. Oxford University Press, 1957. ISBN 978-0-19-814513-4.
Book IV or Gamma: Chapters 2 and 3 argue for its status as a subject in its own right. The rest is a defense of (a) what we now call the principle of contradiction, the principle that it is not possible for the same proposition to be (the case) and not to be (the case), and (b) what we now call the principle of excluded middle: tertium non datur — there cannot be an intermediary between contradictory statements.
S. Fazzo, ‘Sì come rota ch'igualmente è mossa’. Dalla Metafisica di Aristotele al Paradiso di Dante, Storie e linguaggi, Vol 4, N° 2 (2018)
English translation and original Greek at Perseus. Translation by Hugh Tredennick from the Loeb Classical Library.
For Saadia creation is not problematic: God created the world ex nihilo, just as Scripture attests; and he contests the theory of the Motekallamin in reference to atoms, which theory, he declares, is just as contrary to reason and religion as the theory of the philosophers professing the eternity of matter. To prove the unity of God, Saadia uses the demonstrations of the Motekallamin. Only the attributes of essence (sifat-al-datiat) can be ascribed to God, but not the attributes of action (sifat-al-af'aliyat). The soul is a substance more delicate even than that of the celestial spheres. Here Saadia contradicts the Motekallamin, who considered the soul an "accident" (compare "Moreh," i. 74), and employs the following one of their premises to justify his position: "Only a substance can be the substratum of an accident" (that is, of a non-essential property of things). Saadia argues: "If the soul be an accident only, it can itself have no such accidents as wisdom, joy, love," etc. Saadia was thus in every way a supporter of the Kalam; and if at times he deviated from its doctrines, it was owing to his religious views; just as the Jewish and Muslim Peripatetics stopped short in their respective Aristotelianism whenever there was danger of wounding orthodox religion.[1]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r
Vahid Brown states that the cross-fertilization among Jewish and Islamic philosophical mysticism, including Kabbalah and Sufism, in Al-Andalus, Spain during its Golden Age, apart from its impact on European Renaissance, had a strong influence in later developments in both philosophies in the rest of the Jewish and Muslim world.[2]
In this work, Maimonides, after refuting the propositions of the Motekallamin, considers Creation, the Unity of God, the Attributes of God, the Soul, etc., and treats them in accordance with the theories of Aristotle to the extent in which these latter do not conflict with religion. For example, while accepting the teachings of Aristotle upon matter and form, he pronounces against the eternity of matter.[1]
Ibn Roshd (or Ibn Rushd or Averroes), the contemporary of Maimonides, closes the philosophical era of the Arabs. The boldness of this great commentator of Aristotle aroused the full fury of the orthodox, who, in their zeal, attacked all philosophers indiscriminately, and had all philosophical writings committed to the flames. The theories of Ibn Roshd do not differ fundamentally from those of Ibn Bajjah and Ibn Tufail, who only follow the teachings of Ibn Sina and Al-Farabi. Like all Arabic Peripatetics, Ibn Roshd admits the hypothesis of the intelligence of the spheres and the hypothesis of universal emanation, through which motion is communicated from place to place to all parts of the universe as far as the supreme world—hypotheses which, in the mind of the Arabic philosophers, did away with the dualism involved in Aristotle's doctrine of pure energy and eternal matter. But while Al-Farabi, Ibn Sina, and other Arab philosophers hurried, so to speak, over subjects that trenched on religious dogmas, Ibn Roshd delighted in dwelling upon them with full particularity and stress. Thus he says, "Not only is matter eternal, but form is potentially inherent in matter; otherwise, it were a creation ex nihilo (Munk, "Mélanges," p. 444). According to this theory, therefore, the existence of this world is not only a possibility, as Ibn Sina declared—in order to make concessions to the orthodox—but also a necessity. Driven from the Arabian schools, Arabic philosophy found a refuge with the Jews, to whom belongs the honor of having transmitted it to the Christian world. A series of eminent men—such as the Tibbons, Narboni, Gersonides—joined in translating the Arabic philosophical works into Hebrew and commenting upon them. The works of Ibn Roshd especially became the subject of their study, due in great measure to Maimonides, who, in a letter addressed to his pupil Joseph ben Judah, spoke in the highest terms of Ibn Roshd's commentary.[1]
5The apotheosis of philosophy											Toggle The apotheosis of philosophy subsection																					5.1Maimonides with Aristotle against the MoteKallamin																											5.2Maimonides against Aristotle																											5.3Averroism
This page was last edited on 20 December 2022, at 12:09 (UTC).
In the second century of the Hijrah, a schism arose in the theological schools of Basra, over which Hasan al-Basri presided. A pupil, Wasil ibn Ata, who was expelled from the school because his answers were contrary to tradition, proclaimed himself leader of a new school, and systematized all the radical opinions of preceding sects, particularly those of the Kadarites. This new school or sect was called Mutazilites (from 'tazala, to separate oneself, to dissent). The sect had three principal dogmas: (1) God is an absolute unity, and no attribute can be ascribed to Him. (2) Man is a free agent. Because of these two principles the Mutazilites designate themselves the "AsḦab al-'Adl w'al TauḦid" (The Partisans of Justice and Unity). (3) All knowledge necessary for the salvation of man emanates from his reason; he could acquire knowledge before as well as after Revelation, by the sole light of reason—a fact which, therefore, makes knowledge obligatory upon all men and women, at all times, and in all places.[1]
In addition to pronouncing against the eternity of matter, neither does he accept Aristotle's theory that God can have a knowledge of universals only, and not of particulars. If He had no knowledge of particulars, He would be subject to constant change. Maimonides argues: "God perceives future events before they happen, and this perception never fails Him. Therefore there are no new ideas to present themselves to Him. He knows that such and such an individual does not yet exist, but that he will be born at such a time, exist for such a period, and then return into non-existence. When then this individual comes into being, God does not learn any new fact; nothing has happened that He knew not of, for He knew this individual, such as he is now, before his birth" ("Moreh," i. 20). While seeking thus to avoid the troublesome consequences certain Aristotelian theories would entail upon religion, Maimonides could not altogether escape those involved in Aristotle's idea of the unity of souls; and herein he laid himself open to the attacks of the orthodox.[1]
The twelfth century saw the apotheosis of pure philosophy and the decline of the Kalam, which latter, being attacked by both the philosophers and the orthodox, perished for lack of champions. This supreme exaltation of philosophy was due, in great measure, to Al-Ghazali (c. 1058-1111) among the Arabs, and to Judah Halevi (1140) among the Jews. In fact, the attacks directed against the philosophers by Gazzali in his work, "TuḦfat al-Falasafa" (The Destruction of the Philosophers), not only produced, by reaction, a current favorable to philosophy, but induced the philosophers themselves to profit by his criticism, they thereafter making their theories clearer and their logic closer. The influence of this reaction brought forth the two greatest philosophers that the Arabic Peripatetic school ever produced, namely, Ibn Baja (Avempace) and Ibn Roshd (Averroes), both of whom undertook the defense of philosophy.[1]
Brown, Vahid (2006). Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization. In Lights of Irfan, Volume 7, pp. 1-28 , Irfan Colloquia. Wilmette, IL, US.
The authority of Ibn Daud, however, did not suffice to give permanence to Aristotelianism in Judaism. This accomplishment was reserved for Maimonides, who discussed the relevance of the philosophy of Aristotle to Judaism; and to this end he composed his immortal work, "Dalalat al-Ḥairin" (Guide for the Perplexed) —known better under its Hebrew title "Moreh Nevuchim"—which served for many centuries as the subject of discussion and comment by Jewish thinkers.[1]
Gazzali found an imitator in the person of Judah ha-Levi. This illustrious poet took upon himself to free religion from the shackles of speculative philosophy, and to this end wrote the "Cuzari," in which he sought to discredit all schools of philosophy alike. He passes severe censure upon the Motekallamin for seeking to support religion by philosophy. He says, "I consider him to have attained the highest degree of perfection who is convinced of religious truths without having scrutinized them and reasoned over them" ("Cuzari," v.). Then he reduced the chief propositions of the Motekallamin, to prove the unity of God, to ten in number, describing them at length, and concluding in these terms: "Does the Kalam give us more information concerning God and His attributes than the prophet did?" (Ib. iii. and iv.) Aristotelianism finds no favor in his eyes, for it is no less given to details and criticism; Neoplatonism alone suited him somewhat, owing to its appeal to his poetic temperament.[1]
Toward the middle of the eighth century a dissenting sect—still in existence to-day—called Karaites, arose in Judaism. In order to give a philosophical tinge to their polemics with their opponents, they borrowed the dialectic forms of the Motekallamin, and even adopted their name (Mas'udi, in "Notices et Extraits des Manuscrits de la Bibliothèque Royale," viii. 349-351), and thus transplanted the Kalam gradually to Jewish soil, to undergo the same transformations there as among the Arabs.[1]
A century after the Qur'an was written, numerous religious schisms arose in Islam. Skeptics sought to investigate the doctrines of the Qur'an, which until then had been accepted as divine revelation. The first independent protest was that of the Qadar ("Destiny"), whose partisans affirmed the freedom of the will, in contrast with the Jabarites (jabar, force, constraint), who maintained the traditional belief in fatalism.[1]
From the ninth century onward, owing to Caliph al-Ma'mun and his successor, Greek philosophy was introduced among the Arabs, and the Peripatetic school began to find able representatives among them; such were Al-Kindi, Al-Farabi, Ibn Sina, and Ibn Roshd, all of whose fundamental principles were considered as heresies by the Motekallamin.[1]
One or more of the preceding sentences incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Singer, Isidore;et al., eds. (1901–1906). "Arabic Philosophy—Its Influence on Judaism". The Jewish Encyclopedia. New York: Funk & Wagnalls.
Aristotle, the prince of the philosophers, demonstrated the necessary existence of the unmoved mover, and therefore the unity of God, but from the view which he maintained, that matter was eternal, it followed that God could not be the Creator of the world. Again, to assert, as the Peripatetics did, that God's knowledge extends only to the general laws of the universe, and not to individual and accidental things, is tantamount to giving denial to prophecy. One other point shocked the faith of the Motekallamin—the theory of the intellect. The Peripatetics taught that the human soul was only an aptitude—a faculty capable of attaining every variety of passive perfection—and that through information and virtue it became qualified for union with the active intellect, which latter emanates from God. To admit this theory would be to deny the immortality of the soul (see Alexander of Aphrodisias).[1]
The Mutazilites, compelled to defend their principles against the orthodox Islamic faith, looked for support to the doctrines of philosophy, and thus founded a rational theology, which they designated " 'Ilm-al-Kalam"; and those professing it were called Motekallamin. This appellation, originally designating the Mutazilites, soon became the common name for all seeking philosophical demonstration in confirmation of religious principles. The first Motekallamin had to combat both the orthodox and the infidel parties, between whom they occupied the middle ground; but the efforts of subsequent generations were entirely concentrated against the philosophers.[1] The later Motekallamin formed a school known as Ash'arism, which regarded itself as the champion of orthodoxy, and references by the later philosophers to "Motekallamin" (theologians) should usually be taken as meaning the Ash'arites.
Jewish philosophy entered upon a new period in the eleventh century. The works of the Peripatetics —Al-Farabi and Ibn Sina (Avicenna)—on the one side, and the "Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity"—a transformed Kalam founded on Neoplatonic theories—on the other side, exercised considerable influence upon Jewish thinkers of that age. The two leading philosophers of the period are Ibn Gabirol (Avicebron) and Bahya ibn Pakuda — the former standing upon a purely philosophical platform, the latter upon a religio-philosophical one; and both attaining similar results. Both believe in a universal matter as the substratum of all (except God) that exists; but Bahya goes further and determines what that matter is: it is Darkness ("Ma'ani al-Nafs," translated by Broydé, p. 17). But this matter did not exist from all eternity, as the Peripatetics claimed. It is easy to perceive here the growth of the Peripatetic ideas as to substance and form; but influenced by religion, these ideas are so shaped as to admit the non-eternity of matter. In all that pertains to the soul and its action, Gabirol and Bahya are undoubtedly influenced by the "Brethren of Purity." Man (the microcosm) is in every way like the celestial spheres (the macrocosm).Just as the heavenly spheres receive their motion from the universal soul—which is a simple substance emanating from God—so man receives his motion from the rational soul—another simple substance emanating from Him.[1]
One of the most important early Jewish philosophers influenced by Islamic philosophy is Saadia Gaon (892-942). His most important work is Emunoth ve-Deoth (Book of Beliefs and Opinions). In this work Saadia treats of the questions that interested the Motekallamin so deeply—such as the creation of matter, the unity of God, the divine attributes, the soul, etc. — and he criticizes the philosophers severely.[1]
^ Brown, Vahid (2006). Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization. In Lights of Irfan, Volume 7, pp. 1-28 , Irfan Colloquia. Wilmette, IL, US.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r  One or more of the preceding sentences incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Singer, Isidore;et al., eds. (1901–1906). "Arabic Philosophy—Its Influence on Judaism". The Jewish Encyclopedia. New York: Funk & Wagnalls.
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1906 Jewish Encyclopedia
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1906 Jewish Encyclopedia without a Wikisource reference
This article covers the conversations between Islamic philosophy and Jewish philosophy, and mutual influence on each other in response to questions and challenges brought into wide circulation through Aristotelianism, Neo-platonism, and the Kalam, focusing especially on the period from 800–1400 CE.
But the Hebrew Gazzali was no more successful than his Arabian prototype; and his attacks, although they certainly helped to discredit the Kalam—for which no one cared any longer—were altogether powerless against Peripatetic philosophy, which soon found numerous defenders. In fact, soon after the "Cuzari" made its appearance, Abraham ibn Daud published his "Emunah Ramah" (The Sublime Faith), wherein he recapitulated the teachings of the Peripatetics, Al-Farabi and Ibn Sina, upon the physics and metaphysics of Aristotle, and sought to demonstrate that these theories were in perfect harmony with the doctrines of Judaism. "It is an error generally current," says Ibn Daud in the preface of his book, "that the study of speculative philosophy is dangerous to religion. True philosophy not only does not harm religion, it confirms and strengthens it."[1]
Wherefore the Motekallamin had, before anything else, to establish a system of philosophy to demonstrate the creation of matter, and they adopted to that end the theory of atoms as enunciated by Democritus. They taught that atoms possess neither quantity nor extension. Originally atoms were created by God, and are created now as occasion seems to require. Bodies come into existence or die, through the aggregation or the sunderance of these atoms. But this theory did not remove the objections of philosophy to a creation of matter. For, indeed, if it be supposed that God commenced His work at a certain definite time by His "will," and for a certain definite object, it must be admitted that He was imperfect before accomplishing His will, or before attaining His object. In order to obviate this difficulty, the Motekallamin extended their theory of the atoms to Time, and claimed that just as Space is constituted of atoms and vacuum, Time, likewise, is constituted of small indivisible moments. The creation of the world once established, it was an easy matter for them to demonstrate the existence of a Creator, and that He is unique, omnipotent, and omniscient.[1]
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. pp. 134–135. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 57. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Laurie, Timothy (2015), "Becoming-Animal Is A Trap For Humans", Deleuze and the Non-Human eds. Hannah Stark and Jon Roffe.
Structuralism was developed in post-war Paris as a response to the perceived contradiction between the free subject of philosophy and the determined subject of the human sciences.[21] It drew on the systematic linguistics of Ferdinand de Saussure for a view of language and culture as a conventional system of signs preceding the individual subject's entry into them.[22] In the study of linguistics the structuralists saw an objectivity and scientificity that contrasted with the humanist emphasis on creativity, freedom and purpose.[23]
^ Quoted in John D. Caputo, The Tears and Prayers of Jacques Derrida (1997) p. 349
Stefanos Geroulanos, An Atheism That Is Not Humanist Emerges in French Thought (2010)
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 112. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ Tzvetan Todorov. The Imperfect Garden. Princeton University Press. 2001. Pg. 20
Martin Heidegger viewed humanism as a metaphysical philosophy that ascribes to humanity a universal essence and privileges it above all other forms of existence. For Heidegger, humanism takes consciousness as the paradigm of philosophy, leading it to a subjectivism and idealism that must be avoided. Like Hegel before him, Heidegger rejected the Kantian notion of autonomy, pointing out that humans were social and historical beings, as well as rejecting Kant's notion of a constituting consciousness. In Heidegger's philosophy, Being (Sein) and human Being (Dasein) are a primary unity. Dualisms of subject and object, consciousness and being, humanity and nature are inauthentic derivations from this.[11] In the Letter on Humanism (1947), Heidegger distances himself from both humanism and existentialism. He argues that existentialism does not overcome metaphysics, as it merely reverses the basic metaphysical tenet that essence precedes existence. These metaphysical categories must instead be dismantled.[12]
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 59. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 125. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ Macionis, John J. (2012). Sociology 14th Edition. Boston: Pearson. p. 11. ISBN 978-0-205-11671-3.
^ a b c Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 17. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Criticism of humanism as over-idealistic began in the 19th century. For Friedrich Nietzsche, humanism was nothing more than an empty figure of speech[6] – a secular version of theism. Max Stirner expressed a similar position in his book The Ego and Its Own, published several decades before Nietzsche's work.Nietzsche argues in Genealogy of Morals that human rights exist as a means for the weak to constrain the strong; as such, they do not facilitate the emancipation of life, but instead deny it.[7]
one of the features of positivism is precisely its postulate that scientific knowledge is the paradigm of valid knowledge, a postulate that indeed is never proved nor intended to be proved.
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 123–124. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ Outhwaite, William, 1988 Habermas: Key Contemporary Thinkers, Polity Press (Second Edition 2009), ISBN 978-0-7456-4328-1 p.22
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 16–17. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ J. Childers/G. Hentzi eds., The Columbia Dictionary of Modern Literary and Cultural Criticism (1995) p. 140-1
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. pp. 11–12. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Occamism, which denies universals, instead affirming that only individuals exist
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 17. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Jacques Lacan's reformulation of psychoanalysis based on linguistics inevitably led to a similar diminishment of the concept of the autonomous individual: "man with a discourse on freedom which must certainly be called delusional...produced as it is by an animal at the mercy of language".[28] According to Lacan, an individual is not born human but only becomes so through incorporation into a cultural order that Lacan terms The Symbolic.[29] Access to this order proceeds by way of a "mirror stage", where a child models itself upon its own reflection in a mirror. Language allows us to impose order on our desires at this "Imaginary" stage of development.[30] The unconscious, which exists prior to this Symbolic Order, must submit to the Symbolic Law. Since the unconscious is only accessible to the psychoanalyst in language, the most he or she can do is decode the conscious statements of the patient. This decoding can only take place within a signifying chain; the signified of unconscious discourse remains unattainable. It resides in a pre-signified dimension inaccessible to language that Lacan calls "The Real". From this, it follows that it is impossible to express subjectivity. Conscious discourse is the effect of a meaning beyond the reach of a speaking subject. The ego is a fiction that covers over a series of effects arrived at independently of the mind itself.[31]
Quoted in John D. Caputo, The Tears and Prayers of Jacques Derrida (1997) p. 349
Jacques Lacan, Écrits: A Selection (1997) p. 216 and p. 264
L.S. Cattarini, Beyond Sartre and Sterility (2018) includes essay against humanism
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 16–17. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Michel Foucault challenged the foundational aspects of Enlightenment humanism.[40] He rejected absolute categories of epistemology (truth or certainty) and philosophical anthropology (the subject, influence, tradition, class consciousness), in a manner not unlike Nietzsche's earlier dismissal of the categories of reason, morality, spirit, ego, motivation as philosophical substitutes for God.[41] Foucault argued that modern values either produced counter-emancipatory results directly, or matched increased "freedom" with increased and disciplinary normatization.[42] His anti-humanist skepticism extended to attempts to ground theory in human feeling, as much as in human reason, maintaining that both were historically contingent constructs, rather than the universals humanism maintained.[43] In The Archaeology of Knowledge, Foucault dismissed history as "humanist anthropology". The methodology of his work focused not on the reality that lies behind the categories of "insanity", "criminality", "delinquency" and "sexuality", but on how these ideas were constructed by discourses.[44]
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. pp. 125–126. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Karl Marx, "On the Jewish Question" (1843) reprinted in Early Writings
Humanist thinker Tzvetan Todorov has identified within modernity a trend of thought which emphasizes science and within it tends towards a deterministic view of the world. He clearly identifies positivist theorist Auguste Comte as an important proponent of this view.[18] For Todorov "Scientism does not eliminate the will but decides that since the results of science are valid for everyone, this will must be something shared, not individual. In practice, the individual must submit to the collectivity, which 'knows' better than he does." The autonomy of the will is maintained, but it is the will of the group, not the person...scientism has flourished in two very different political contexts...The first variant of scientism was put into practice by totalitarian regimes."[19] A similar criticism can be found in the work associated with the Frankfurt School of social research. Antipositivism would be further facilitated by rejections of scientism; or science as ideology. Jürgen Habermas argues, in his On the Logic of the Social Sciences (1967), that "the positivist thesis of unified science, which assimilates all the sciences to a natural-scientific model, fails because of the intimate relationship between the social sciences and history, and the fact that they are based on a situation-specific understanding of meaning that can be explicated only hermeneutically ... access to a symbolically prestructured reality cannot be gained by observation alone."[20]
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 12. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Positivism is a philosophy of science based on the view that in the social as well as natural sciences, information derived from sensory experience, and logical and mathematical treatments of such data, are together the exclusive source of all authoritative knowledge.[13] Positivism assumes that there is valid knowledge (truth) only in scientific knowledge.[14] Obtaining and verifying data that can be received from the senses is known as empirical evidence.[13] This view holds that society operates according to general laws that dictate the existence and interaction of ontologically real objects in the physical world. Introspective and intuitional attempts to gain knowledge are rejected. Though the positivist approach has been a recurrent theme in the history of Western thought,[15] the concept was developed in the modern sense in the early 19th century by the philosopher and founding sociologist, Auguste Comte.[16] Comte argued that society operates according to its own quasi-absolute laws, much as the physical world operates according to gravity and other absolute laws of nature.[17]
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 126. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ a b Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. pp. 112–113. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 59. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
In the late 18th and 19th centuries, the philosophy of humanism was a cornerstone of the Enlightenment. Human history was seen as a product of human thought and action, to be understood through the categories of "consciousness", "agency", "choice", "responsibility", "moral values". Human beings were viewed as possessing common essential features.[4] From the belief in a universal moral core of humanity, it followed that all persons were inherently free and equal. For liberal humanists such as Immanuel Kant, the universal law of reason was a guide towards total emancipation from any kind of tyranny.[5]
Tzvetan Todorov. The Imperfect Garden. Princeton University Press. 2001. Pg. 23
^ G. Gutting ed., The Cambridge Companion to Foucault (2003) p. 277
^ Tzvetan Todorov. The Imperfect Garden. Princeton University Press. 2001. Pg. 23
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 123. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
The young Marx is sometimes considered a humanist, as he rejected the idea of human rights as a symptom of the very dehumanization they were intended to oppose. Given that capitalism forces individuals to behave in an egoistic manner, they are in constant conflict with one another, and are thus in need of rights to protect themselves. True emancipation, he asserted, could only come through the establishment of communism, which abolishes private property.[8] According to many anti-humanists, such as Louis Althusser, mature Marx sees the idea of "humanity" as an unreal abstraction that masks conflicts between antagonistic classes; since human rights are abstract, the justice and equality they protect is also abstract, permitting extreme inequalities in reality.[9]
M. Hardt/K. Weeks eds., The Jameson Reader (2005) p. 150
In the 20th century, the view of humans as rationally autonomous was challenged by Sigmund Freud, who believed humans to be largely driven by unconscious irrational desires.[10]
^ a b John J. Macionis, Linda M. Gerber, "Sociology", Seventh Canadian Edition, Pearson Canada
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 126. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Saussure held that individual units of linguistic signification - signs - only enjoy their individuality and their power to signify by virtue of their contrasts or oppositions with other units in the same symbolic system. For Saussure, the sign is a mysterious unification of a sound and a thought. Nothing links the two: each sound and thought is in principle exchangeable for other sounds or concepts. A sign is only significant as a result of the total system in which it functions.[24] To communicate by particular forms of speech and action (parole) is itself to presuppose a general body of rules (langue). The concrete piece of behaviour and the system that enables it to mean something mutually entail each other. The very act of identifying what they say already implies structures. Signs are thus not at the service of a subject; they do not pre-exist the relations of difference between them. We cannot seek an exit from this purely relational system. The individual is always subordinate to the code. Linguistic study must abstract from the subjective physical, physiological and psychological aspects of language to concentrate on langue as a self-contained whole.[25]
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 104. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
The structuralist anthropologist Claude Levi-Strauss proclaimed that the goal of the human sciences was "not to constitute, but to dissolve man".[26] He systematised a structuralist analysis of culture that incorporated ideas and methods from Saussure's model of language as a system of signifiers and signifieds. His work employed Saussurean technical terms such as langue and parole, as well as the distinction between synchronic analysis (abstracting a system as if it were timeless) and diachronic analysis (where temporal duration is factored in). He paid little attention to the individual and instead concentrated on systems of signs as they operated in primitive societies. For Levi-Strauss, cultural choice was always pre-constrained by a signifying convention.[27] Everything in experience was matter for communication codes. The structure of this system was not devised by anyone and was not present in the minds of its users, but nonetheless could be discerned by a scientific observer.
Christian perfection, position in Christianity whose opponents claim entails humans losing their sin
Post-structuralist Jacques Derrida continued structuralism's focus on language as key to understanding all aspects of individual and social being, as well as its problematization of the human subject, but rejected its commitment to scientific objectivity.[38] Derrida argued that if signs of language are only significant by virtue of their relations of difference with all other signs in the same system, then meaning is based purely on the play of differences, and is never truly present.[38] He claimed that the fundamentally ambiguous nature of language makes human intention unknowable, attacked Enlightenment perfectionism, and condemned as futile the existentialist quest for authenticity in the face of the all-embracing network of signs. The world itself is text; a reference to a pure meaning prior to language cannot be expressed in it.[38] As he stressed, "the subject is not some meta-linguistic substance or identity, some pure cogito of self-presence; it is always inscribed in language".[39]
In social theory and philosophy, antihumanism or anti-humanism is a theory that is critical of traditional humanism, traditional ideas about humanity and the human condition.[1] Central to antihumanism is the view that philosophical anthropology[2] and its concepts of "human nature", "man" or "humanity" should be rejected as historically relative, ideological or metaphysical.[3]
^ Zhang, Xudong and Jameson, Fredric, Marxism and the Historicity of Theory: An Interview with Fredric Jameson https://muse.jhu.edu/article/24419/summary
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 12. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ G. Gutting ed., The Cambridge Companion to Foucault (2003) p. 243
Althusser considered "structure" and "social relations" to have primacy over individual consciousness, opposing the philosophy of the subject.[36] For Althusser, individuals are not constitutive of the social process, but are instead its supports or effects.[37] Society constructs the individual in its own image through its ideologies: the beliefs, desires, preferences and judgements of the human individual are the effects of social practices. Where Marxist humanists such as Georg Lukács believed revolution was contingent on the development of the class consciousness of an historical subject - the proletariat - Althusser's antihumanism removed the role of human agency; history was a process without a subject.[2]
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 112. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Outhwaite, William, 1988 Habermas: Key Contemporary Thinkers, Polity Press (Second Edition 2009), ISBN 978-0-7456-4328-1 p.22
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 123. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Taking a lead from Brecht's twin attack on bourgeois and socialist humanism,[32][33] structural Marxist Louis Althusser used the term "antihumanism" in an attack against Marxist humanists, whose position he considered a revisionist movement. He believed humanism to be a bourgeois individualist philosophy that posits a "human essence" through which there is potential for authenticity and common human purpose.[34] This essence does not exist: it is a formal structure of thought whose content is determined by the dominant interests of each historical epoch.[35] Socialist humanism is similarly an ethical and thus ideological phenomenon. Since its argument rests on a moral and ethical basis, it reflects the reality of exploitation and discrimination that gives rise to it but never truly grasps this reality in thought. Marxist theory must go beyond this to a scientific analysis that directs to underlying forces such as economic relations and social institutions.[34]
G. Gutting ed., The Cambridge Companion to Foucault (2003) p. 244
This page was last edited on 26 October 2022, at 05:07 (UTC).
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 133. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ M. Hardt/K. Weeks eds., The Jameson Reader (2005) p. 150
J. Childers/G. Hentzi eds., The Columbia Dictionary of Modern Literary and Cultural Criticism (1995) p. 140-1
Martin Heidegger, "Letter on Humanism" (1947) reprinted in Basic Writings
Jorge Larrain (1979) The Concept of Ideology p.197, quotation: .mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}one of the features of positivism is precisely its postulate that scientific knowledge is the paradigm of valid knowledge, a postulate that indeed is never proved nor intended to be proved.
Zhang, Xudong and Jameson, Fredric, Marxism and the Historicity of Theory: An Interview with Fredric Jameson https://muse.jhu.edu/article/24419/summary
G. Gutting ed., The Cambridge Companion to Foucault (2003) p. 243
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. pp. 134–135. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
"Foucault and critique: Kant, humanism and the human sciences". University of Surrey. September 13, 2017. Retrieved January 16, 2018.
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 133. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 123–124. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. pp. 125–126. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ R. Appignanesi/C. Garratt, Postmodernism for Beginners (1995) p. 56–60
^ Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. pp. 11–12. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 57. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ Jacques Lacan, Écrits: A Selection (1997) p. 216 and p. 264
Tzvetan Todorov. The Imperfect Garden. Princeton University Press. 2001. Pg. 20
^ Laurie, Timothy (2015), "Becoming-Animal Is A Trap For Humans", Deleuze and the Non-Human eds. Hannah Stark and Jon Roffe.
^ "Foucault and critique: Kant, humanism and the human sciences". University of Surrey. September 13, 2017. Retrieved January 16, 2018.
^ Levi-Strauss, Claude (1966). The Savage Mind. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson. p. 247.
Cohen, Louis; Maldonado, Antonio (2007). "Research Methods In Education". British Journal of Educational Studies. Routledge. 55 (4): 9. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8527.2007.00388_4.x..
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. pp. 112–113. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ Jorge Larrain (1979) The Concept of Ideology p.197, quotation: .mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}one of the features of positivism is precisely its postulate that scientific knowledge is the paradigm of valid knowledge, a postulate that indeed is never proved nor intended to be proved.
G. Gutting ed., The Cambridge Companion to Foucault (2003) p. 277
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 104. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
^ Cohen, Louis; Maldonado, Antonio (2007). "Research Methods In Education". British Journal of Educational Studies. Routledge. 55 (4): 9. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8527.2007.00388_4.x..
The semiological work of Roland Barthes (1977) decried the cult of the author and indeed proclaimed his death.
John J. Macionis, Linda M. Gerber, "Sociology", Seventh Canadian Edition, Pearson Canada
Levi-Strauss, Claude (1966). The Savage Mind. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson. p. 247.
^ G. Gutting ed., The Cambridge Companion to Foucault (2003) p. 244
Macionis, John J. (2012). Sociology 14th Edition. Boston: Pearson. p. 11. ISBN 978-0-205-11671-3.
The heroine of the novel Nice Work begins by defining herself as a semiotic materialist, "a subject position in an infinite web of discourses – the discourses of power, sex, family, science, religion, poetry, etc."[45] Charged with taking a bleak deterministic view, she retorts, "antihumanist, yes; inhuman, no...the truly determined subject is he who is not aware of the discursive formations that determine him".[46] However, with greater life-experience, she comes closer to accepting that post-structuralism is an intriguing philosophical game, but probably meaningless to those who have not yet even gained awareness of humanism itself.[47]
Soper, Kate (1986). Humanism and Anti-Humanism. London: Hutchinson. p. 125. ISBN 0-09-162-931-4.
Hary Gunarto, Ethical Issues in Cyberspace and IT Society, Symposium on Whither The Age of Uncertainty, APU Univ., paper Archived October 26, 2017, at the Wayback Machine,Jan. 2003
Informal theories of etiquette that tend to be less rigorous and more situational. Some consider etiquette a simple negative ethics, i.e., where can one evade an uncomfortable truth without doing wrong? One notable advocate of this view is Judith Martin ("Miss Manners"). According to this view, ethics is more a summary of common sense social decisions.
Observed choices made by ordinary people, without expert aid or advice, who vote, buy, and decide what is worth valuing. This is a major concern within disciplines such as political science and economics.[123]
In Moral Machines: Teaching Robots Right from Wrong, Wendell Wallach and Colin Allen conclude that issues in machine ethics will likely drive advancement in understanding of human ethics by forcing us to address gaps in modern normative theory and by providing a platform for experimental investigation.[101] The effort to actually program a machine or artificial agent to behave as though instilled with a sense of ethics[102] requires new specificity in our normative theories, especially regarding aspects customarily considered common-sense. For example, machines, unlike humans, can support a wide selection of learning algorithms, and controversy has arisen over the relative ethical merits of these options. This may reopen classic debates of normative ethics framed in new (highly technical) terms.
^ Kelly, Eugene. 2006. The Basics of Western Philosophy. Greenwood Press: 160.
"Astroethics". Archived from the original on October 23, 2013. Retrieved December 21, 2005.
Habermas argues that his ethical theory is an improvement on Kant's ethics.[54] He rejects the dualistic framework of Kant's ethics. Kant distinguished between the phenomena world, which can be sensed and experienced by humans, and the noumena, or spiritual world, which is inaccessible to humans. This dichotomy was necessary for Kant because it could explain the autonomy of a human agent: although a human is bound in the phenomenal world, their actions are free in the noumenal world. For Habermas, morality arises from discourse, which is made necessary by their rationality and needs, rather than their freedom.[55]
^ John Deigh in Robert Audi (ed), The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, 1995.
^ Mautner, Michael N. (2009). "Life-centered ethics, and the human future in space" (PDF). Bioethics. 23 (8): 433–440. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8519.2008.00688.x. PMID 19077128. S2CID 25203457. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 2, 2012. Retrieved December 23, 2012.
The ethical resistance of the powerless others to our capacity to exert power over them is therefore what imposes unenforceable obligations on us. The obligations are unenforceable precisely because of the other's lack of power. That actions are at once obligatory and at the same time unenforceable is what put them in the category of the ethical. Obligations that were enforced would, by the virtue of the force behind them, not be freely undertaken and would not be in the realm of the ethical.[90]
^ Berle, A.A., & Means, G.C. (1932). The Modern Corporation and Private Property. New Jersey: Transaction Publishers. In this book, Berle and Means observe, "Corporations have ceased to be merely legal devices through which the private business transactions of individuals may be carried on. Though still much used for this purpose, the corporate form has acquired a much larger significance. The corporation has, in fact, become both a method of property tenure and a means of organizing economic life. Grown to tremendous proportions, there may be said to have evolved a 'corporate system'—as there once was a feudal system—which has attracted to itself a combination of attributes and powers, and has attained a degree of prominence entitling it to be dealt with as a major social institution. ... We are examining this institution probably before it has attained its zenith. Spectacular as its rise has been, every indication seems to be that the system will move forward to proportions which stagger imagination today ... They [management] have placed the community in a position to demand that the modern corporation serve not only the owners ... but all society." p. 1.
^ a b c Kant, Immanuel. 1785. 'First Section: Transition from the Common Rational Knowledge of Morals to the Philosophical', Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals.
^ Kant, Immanuel (1785).Thomas Kingsmill Abbott (ed.). Fundamental Principles of the Metaphysic of Morals (10 ed.). Project Gutenberg. p. 23.
Animal ethics is a term used in academia to describe human-animal relationships and how animals ought to be treated. The subject matter includes animal rights, animal welfare, animal law, speciesism, animal cognition, wildlife conservation, the moral status of nonhuman animals, the concept of nonhuman personhood, human exceptionalism, the history of animal use, and theories of justice.
"Non-Cognitivism in Ethics | Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy". Archived from the original on November 11, 2020. Retrieved June 18, 2011.
Utilitarianism is the paradigmatic example of a consequentialist moral theory. This form of utilitarianism holds that the morally correct action is the one that produces the best outcome for all people affected by the action. John Stuart Mill, in his exposition of utilitarianism, proposed a hierarchy of pleasures, meaning that the pursuit of certain kinds of pleasure is more highly valued than the pursuit of other pleasures.[40] Other noteworthy proponents of utilitarianism are neuroscientist Sam Harris, author of The Moral Landscape, and moral philosopher Peter Singer, author of, amongst other works, Practical Ethics.
Sigelman, Lee (2000). "Publication Bias Reconsidered". Political Analysis. 8 (2): 201–210. doi:10.1093/oxfordjournals.pan.a029813. JSTOR 25791607.
Anscombe, G. E. M. (1958). "Modern Moral Philosophy". Philosophy. 33 (124): 1–19. doi:10.1017/S0031819100037943. S2CID 197875941. Archived from the original on January 31, 2010. Retrieved December 14, 2009.
Although not all deontologists are religious, some belief in the 'divine command theory', which is actually a cluster of related theories which essentially state that an action is right if God has decreed that it is right.[50] According to Ralph Cudworth, an English philosopher, William of Ockham, René Descartes, and eighteenth-century Calvinists all accepted various versions of this moral theory, as they all held that moral obligations arise from God's commands.[51] The Divine Command Theory is a form of deontology because, according to it, the rightness of any action depends upon that action being performed because it is a duty, not because of any good consequences arising from that action. If God commands people not to work on Sabbath, then people act rightly if they do not work on Sabbath because God has commanded that they do not do so. If they do not work on Sabbath because they are lazy, then their action is not truly speaking "right", even though the actual physical action performed is the same. If God commands not to covet a neighbor's goods, this theory holds that it would be immoral to do so, even if coveting provides the beneficial outcome of a drive to succeed or do well.
^ Orend, Brian. 2000. War and International Justice: A Kantian Perspective. West Waterloo, Ontario: Wilfrid Laurier University Press: 19.
Morton, Neil (October 2009). "Publication ethics" (PDF). Pediatric Anesthesia. 19 (10): 1011–1013. doi:10.1111/j.1460-9592.2009.03086.x. PMID 19619189. S2CID 45641680. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 22, 2018. Retrieved October 14, 2019.
^ Pollock, Griselda. "Aesthetic Wit(h)nessing in the Era of Trauma." In: EurAmerica vol 40 n. 4, December 2010 
However, each method arrives at (a) and (b) by different routes.
Sufficiently broadly defined, ethical intuitionism can be taken to encompass cognitivist forms of moral sense theory.[28] It is usually furthermore taken as essential to ethical intuitionism that there be self-evident or a priori moral knowledge; this counts against considering moral sense theory to be a species of intuitionism.[citation needed]
Rushworth Kidder states that "standard definitions of ethics have typically included such phrases as 'the science of the ideal human character' or 'the science of moral duty'".[6] Richard William Paul and Linda Elder define ethics as "a set of concepts and principles that guide us in determining what behavior helps or harms sentient creatures".[7] The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy states that the word "ethics" is "commonly used interchangeably with 'morality' ... and sometimes it is used more narrowly to mean the moral principles of a particular tradition, group or individual."[8] Paul and Elder state that most people confuse ethics with behaving in accordance with social conventions, religious beliefs, the law, and do not treat ethics as a stand-alone concept.[9]
Adler, Mortimer (1985). Ten Philosophical Mistakes: Basic Errors In Modern Thought – How they came about, their consequences, and how to avoid them. Macmillan. ISBN 0-02-500330-5.
Studies of how we know in ethics divide into cognitivism and non-cognitivism; these, respectively, take descriptive and non-descriptive approaches to moral goodness or value. Non-cognitivism is the view that when we judge something as morally right or wrong, this is neither true nor false. We may, for example, be only expressing our emotional feelings about these things.[15] Cognitivism can then be seen as the claim that when we talk about right and wrong, we are talking about matters of fact.
Carter, Craig R. (2000). "Precursors of Unethical Behavior in Global Supplier Management". Journal of Supply Chain Management. 36 (4): 45–56. doi:10.1111/j.1745-493X.2000.tb00069.x. ISSN 1745-493X.
^ a b Carol Gilligan (2009). In a Different Voice. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-03761-8.
Kant, Immanuel (1785).Thomas Kingsmill Abbott (ed.). Fundamental Principles of the Metaphysic of Morals (10 ed.). Project Gutenberg. p. 23.
Sim, May, 2015, "Why Confucius' Ethics is a Virtue Ethics", in Besser-Jones and Slote (2015), pp. 63–76
One major trend in contemporary virtue ethics is the Modern Stoicism movement.
"What is ethics?". BBC. Archived from the original on October 28, 2013. Retrieved July 22, 2014.
Applied ethics, concerning what a person is obligated (or permitted) to do in a specific situation or a particular domain of action.[2]
Anarchist ethics is an ethical theory based on the studies of anarchist thinkers. The biggest contributor to anarchist ethics is Peter Kropotkin.
^ "Bracha L Ettinger Metafeminist and Feminist Notes. Oxytocin Mothering the World, London March 2019". YouTube. Archived from the original on February 20, 2022. Retrieved February 24, 2022.
The 'metafeminist' theory of the matrixial gaze and the matrixial[61][62] time-space, coined and developed Bracha L. Ettinger since 1985,[63][64][65][66] articulates a revolutionary philosophical approach that, in "daring to approach", to use Griselda Pollock's description of Ettinger's ethical turn,[67][68] "the prenatal with the pre-maternal encounter", violence toward women at war, and the Shoah, has philosophically established the rights of each female subject over her own reproductive body, and offered a language to relate to human experiences which escape the phallic domain.[69][70] The matrixial sphere is a psychic and symbolic dimension that the 'phallic' language and regulations cannot control. In Ettinger's model, the relations between self and other are of neither assimilation nor rejection but 'coemergence'. In her conversation with Emmanuel Levinas, 1991, Ettinger prooses that the source of human Ethics is feminine-maternal and feminine-pre-maternal matrixial encounter-event. Sexuality and maternality coexist and are not in contradiction (the contradiction established by Sigmund Freud and Jacques Lacan), and the feminine is not an absolute alterity (the alterity established by Jacques Lacan and Emmanuel Levinas). With the 'originary response-ability', 'wit(h)nessing', 'borderlinking', 'communicaring', 'com-passion', 'seduction into life'[71][72] and other processes invested by affects that occur in the Ettingerian matrixial time-space, the feminine is presented as the source of humanized Ethics in all genders. Compassion and Seduction into life occurs earlier than the primary seduction which passes through enigmatic signals from the maternal sexuality according to Jean Laplanche, since it is active in 'coemergence' in 'withnessing' for any born subject, earlier to its birth. Ettinger suggests to Emanuel Levinas in their conversations in 1991, that the feminine understood via the matrixial perspective is the heart and the source of Ethics.[73][74] At the beginning of life, an originary 'fascinance' felt by the infant[75] is related to the passage from response-ability to responsibility, from com-passion to compassion, and from wit(h)nessing to witnessing operated and transmitted by the m/Other. The 'differentiation in jointness' that is at the heart of the matrixial borderspace has deep implications in the relational field[76] and for the ethics of care.[77] The matrixial theory that proposes new ways to rethink sexual difference through the fluidity of boundaries informs aesthetics and ethics of compassion, carrying and non-abandonment in 'subjectivity as encounter-event'.[78][79] It has become significant in Psychoanalysis and in transgender studies.[80]
^ a b N. Sanjeevi (1973). First All India Tirukkural Seminar Papers (2nd ed.). Chennai: University of Madras. p. xxiii–xxvii.
Military ethics are concerned with questions regarding the application of force and the ethos of the soldier and are often understood as applied professional ethics.[103] Just war theory is generally seen to set the background terms of military ethics. However individual countries and traditions have different fields of attention.[104]
Noddings, Nel: Women and Evil, p. 222. University of California Press, Berkeley, 1989.
John Newton, Ph.D., Complete Conduct Principles for the 21st Century (2000). ISBN 0-9673705-7-4.
Ettinger, Bracha L., "Matrix and Metramorphosis." In:Differences. Vol. 4, nº 3, 1992.
^ Williams, Bernard. Ethics and the Limits of Philosophy. p. 2.
^ Velusamy, N.; Faraday, Moses Michael, eds. (February 2017). Why Should Thirukkural Be Declared the National Book of India?. Unique Media Integrators. p. 55. ISBN 978-93-85471-70-4.
Ethics of nanotechnology is the study of the ethical issues emerging from advances in nanotechnology.
Deontological ethics or deontology (from Greek δέον, deon, "obligation, duty"; and -λογία, -logia) is an approach to ethics that determines goodness or rightness from examining acts, or the rules and duties that the person doing the act strove to fulfill.[42] This is in contrast to consequentialism, in which rightness is based on the consequences of an act, and not the act by itself. Under deontology, an act may be considered right even if it produces a bad consequence,[43] if it follows the rule or moral law. According to the deontological view, people have a duty to act in ways that are deemed inherently good ("truth-telling" for example), or follow an objectively obligatory rule (as in rule utilitarianism).
The English word ethics is derived from the Ancient Greek word ēthikós (ἠθικός), meaning "relating to one's character", which itself comes from the root word êthos (ἦθος) meaning "character, moral nature".[5] This word was transferred into Latin as ethica and then into French as éthique, from which it was transferred into English.
Public sector ethics is a set of principles that guide public officials in their service to their constituents, including their decision-making on behalf of their constituents. Fundamental to the concept of public sector ethics is the notion that decisions and actions are based on what best serves the public's interests, as opposed to the official's personal interests (including financial interests) or self-serving political interests.[106]
"Deontological Ethics". Stanford.edu. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2021. Archived from the original on April 25, 2021. Retrieved July 30, 2012.
^ Ellis, C. (1986). Fisher folk. Two communities on Chesapeake Bay. Lexington: University Press of Kentucky.
^ a b Loewe, Michael; Shaughnessy, Edward L. (1999). The Cambridge History of Ancient China. Cambridge University Press. p. 761. ISBN 978-0-521-47030-8.
Kant, Immanuel (1889). The Metaphysical Elements of Ethics. Translated by Thomas Kingsmill Abbott. Longmans, Green & Co. Archived from the original on October 14, 2016. Preface and Introduction to Metaphysische Anfangsgründe der Tugendlehre Archived March 22, 2019, at the Wayback Machine, 1797. Abbott's deontology translates Kant's Pflichtenlehre.
Moral skepticism (or moral scepticism) is a class of metaethical theories in which all members entail that no one has any moral knowledge. Many moral skeptics also make the stronger, modal claim that moral knowledge is impossible. Moral skepticism is particularly against moral realism which holds the view that there are knowable and objective moral truths.[citation needed]
Business ethics (also corporate ethics) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment, including fields like medical ethics. Business ethics represents the practices that any individual or group exhibits within an organization that can negatively or positively affect the businesses core values. It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations.
"Utilitarian Theories". Department of Philosophy, Carnegie Mellon University. 1996. Archived from the original on May 20, 2014. Retrieved July 28, 2017.
^ Lafollette, Hugh, ed. (2000). The Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory. Blackwell Philosophy Guides (1 ed.). Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN 978-0-631-20119-9.
One way to divide various consequentialisms is by the many types of consequences that are taken to matter most, that is, which consequences count as good states of affairs. According to utilitarianism, a good action is one that results in an increase and positive effect, and the best action is one that results in that effect for the greatest number. Closely related is eudaimonic consequentialism, according to which a full, flourishing life, which may or may not be the same as enjoying a great deal of pleasure, is the ultimate aim. Similarly, one might adopt an aesthetic consequentialism, in which the ultimate aim is to produce beauty. However, one might fix on non-psychological goods as the relevant effect. Thus, one might pursue an increase in material equality or political liberty instead of something like the more ephemeral "pleasure". Other theories adopt a package of several goods, all to be promoted equally. Whether a particular consequentialist theory focuses on a single good or many, conflicts and tensions between different good states of affairs are to be expected and must be adjudicated.[citation needed]
N. Sanjeevi (1973). First All India Tirukkural Seminar Papers (2nd ed.). Chennai: University of Madras. p. xxiii–xxvii.
Bracha L. Ettinger, The Matrixial Gaze. Fine Art, Leeds University, 1995.
Stratton-Lake (2014) http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/intuitionism-ethics/ Archived November 25, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Ethics or moral philosophy is a branch[1] of philosophy that "involves systematizing, defending, and recommending concepts of right and wrong behavior".[2] The field of ethics, along with aesthetics, concerns matters of value; these fields comprise the branch of philosophy called axiology.[3]
^ Cudworth, Ralph. 1731. A Treatise Concerning Eternal and Immutable Morality. Reprinted in 1996. Sarah Hutton (ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
The word ethics in English refers to several things.[10] It can refer to philosophical ethics or moral philosophy—a project that attempts to use reason to answer various kinds of ethical questions. As the English moral philosopher Bernard Williams writes, attempting to explain moral philosophy: "What makes an inquiry a philosophical one is reflective generality and a style of argument that claims to be rationally persuasive."[11] Williams describes the content of this area of inquiry as addressing the very broad question, "how one should live".[12] Ethics can also refer to a common human ability to think about ethical problems that is not particular to philosophy. As bioethicist Larry Churchill has written: "Ethics, understood as the capacity to think critically about moral values and direct our actions in terms of such values, is a generic human capacity."[13]
Van Norden, Bryan W. (2011). Introduction to Classical Chinese Philosophy. Hackett Publishing. p. 52. ISBN 978-1-60384-468-0.
Hedonism posits that the principal ethic is maximizing pleasure and minimizing pain. There are several schools of Hedonist thought ranging from those advocating the indulgence of even momentary desires to those teaching a pursuit of spiritual bliss. In their consideration of consequences, they range from those advocating self-gratification regardless of the pain and expense to others, to those stating that the most ethical pursuit maximizes pleasure and happiness for the most people.[19]: 37
^ See, for example, work of Institute for Local Government, at www.ca-ilg.org/trust Archived October 1, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.
Birgit M. Kaiser, Kathrin Thiele, "If You Do Well, Carry! The Difference of the Humane: An Interview with Bracha L. Ettinger". philoSOPHIA, Volume 8, Number 1, Winter 2018, pp. 101-125 (Article). https://doi.org/10.1353/phi.2018.0005
^ Paul, Richard; Elder, Linda (2006). The Miniature Guide to Understanding the Foundations of Ethical Reasoning. United States: Foundation for Critical Thinking Free Press. p. NP. ISBN 978-0-944583-17-3.
Ellis, C. (1995).Final negotiations: A story of love, loss, and chronic illness. Philadelphia: Temple University Press.
The major division within utilitarianism is between act utilitarianism and rule utilitarianism. In act utilitarianism, the principle of utility applies directly to each alternative act in a situation of choice. The right act is the one that brings about the best results (or the least bad results). In rule utilitarianism, the principle of utility determines the validity of rules of conduct (moral principles). A rule like promise-keeping is established by looking at the consequences of a world in which people break promises at will and a world in which promises are binding. Right and wrong are the following or breaking of rules that are sanctioned by their utilitarian value.[41] A proposed "middle ground" between these two types is Two-level utilitarianism, where rules are applied in ordinary circumstances, but with an allowance to choose actions outside of such rules when unusual situations call for it.
4.2Particular fields of application																								4.2.1Bioethics																											4.2.2Business ethics																											4.2.3Machine ethics																											4.2.4Military ethics																											4.2.5Political ethics																											4.2.6Public sector ethics																											4.2.7Publication ethics																											4.2.8Relational ethics																											4.2.9Ethics of nanotechnologies																											4.2.10Ethics of quantification																											4.2.11Animal ethics																											4.2.12Ethics of technology
D'Urance, Michel, Jalons pour une éthique rebelle, Aléthéia, Paris, 2005.
^ Thompson, Dennis F. "Political Ethics". International Encyclopedia of Ethics, ed. Hugh LaFollette (Blackwell Publishing, 2012).
^ Scollon, Ron (June 1999). "Plagiarism". Journal of Linguistic Anthropology. 9 (1–2): 188–190. doi:10.1525/jlin.1999.9.1-2.188. JSTOR 43102462. S2CID 214832669.
Role ethics is an ethical theory based on family roles.[81] Unlike virtue ethics, role ethics is not individualistic. Morality is derived from a person's relationship with their community.[82] Confucian ethics is an example of role ethics[81] though this is not straightforwardly uncontested.[83] Confucian roles center around the concept of filial piety or xiao, a respect for family members.[84] According to Roger T. Ames and Henry Rosemont, "Confucian normativity is defined by living one's family roles to maximum effect." Morality is determined through a person's fulfillment of a role, such as that of a parent or a child. Confucian roles are not rational, and originate through the xin, or human emotions.[82]
Meta-ethics, concerning the theoretical meaning and reference of moral propositions, and how their truth values (if any) can be determined;
Lafollette, Hugh [ed.]: Ethics in Practice: An Anthology. Wiley Blackwell, 4th edition, Oxford 2014. ISBN 978-0-470-67183-2
Paul, Richard; Elder, Linda (2006). The Miniature Guide to Understanding the Foundations of Ethical Reasoning. United States: Foundation for Critical Thinking Free Press. p. np. ISBN 978-0-944583-17-3.
Founded by Aristippus of Cyrene, Cyrenaics supported immediate gratification or pleasure. "Eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die." Even fleeting desires should be indulged, for fear the opportunity should be forever lost. There was little to no concern with the future, the present dominating in the pursuit of immediate pleasure. Cyrenaic hedonism encouraged the pursuit of enjoyment and indulgence without hesitation, believing pleasure to be the only good.[19]: 37
Wallach, Wendell; Allen, Colin (2008). Moral Machines: Teaching Robots Right from Wrong. USA: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-537404-9.
Act in such a way that you always treat humanity, whether in your own person or in the person of any other, never simply as a means, but always at the same time as an end.
Ethics of technology is a sub-field of ethics addressing the ethical questions specific to the Technology Age. Some prominent works of philosopher Hans Jonas are devoted to ethics of technology. The subject has also been explored, following the work of Mario Bunge, under the term technoethics.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Verst, Ludger; Kampmann, Susanne; Eilers, Franz-Josef (July 27, 2015). Die Literaturrundschau. Communicatio Socialis. OCLC 914511982.
Paul, Richard; Elder, Linda (2006). The Miniature Guide to Understanding the Foundations of Ethical Reasoning. United States: Foundation for Critical Thinking Free Press. p. NP. ISBN 978-0-944583-17-3.
Jay L. Garfield; William Edelglass (2011). The Oxford Handbook of World Philosophy. Oxford University Press. p. 62. ISBN 978-0-19-532899-8. Archived from the original on April 25, 2016. Retrieved January 8, 2016. The goods that serve as criteria of morality are collective or public, in contrast, for instance, to individual happiness or well-being
Ellis, C. (1986). Fisher folk. Two communities on Chesapeake Bay. Lexington: University Press of Kentucky.
Cavalier, Robert. "Meta-ethics, Normative Ethics, and Applied Ethics". Online Guide to Ethics and Moral Philosophy. Archived from the original on November 12, 2013. Retrieved February 26, 2014.
The defining feature of consequentialist moral theories is the weight given to the consequences in evaluating the rightness and wrongness of actions.[36] In consequentialist theories, the consequences of an action or rule generally outweigh other considerations. Apart from this basic outline, there is little else that can be unequivocally said about consequentialism as such. However, there are some questions that many consequentialist theories address:
Smith, A (1776/1952). An Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations. Chicago, Illinois: University of Chicago Press, p. 55.
^ Jay L. Garfield; William Edelglass (2011). The Oxford Handbook of World Philosophy. Oxford University Press. p. 62. ISBN 978-0-19-532899-8. Archived from the original on April 25, 2016. Retrieved January 8, 2016. The goods that serve as criteria of morality are collective or public, in contrast, for instance, to individual happiness or well-being
Sanjeev, Handa (2008). "Plagiarism and publication ethics: Dos and don'ts". Indian Journal of Dermatology, Venereology and Leprology. 74 (4): 301–303. doi:10.4103/0378-6323.42882. PMID 18797047.
^ Wager, E.; Fiack, S.; Graf, C.; Robinson, A.; Rowlands, I. (March 31, 2009). "Science journal editors' views on publication ethics: results of an international survey". Journal of Medical Ethics. 35 (6): 348–353. doi:10.1136/jme.2008.028324. PMID 19482976. Archived from the original on December 23, 2015. Retrieved April 30, 2015.
William S. Sahakian; Mabel Lewis Sahakian (1966). Ideas of the Great Philosophers. Barnes & Noble. ISBN 978-1-56619-271-2.
^ Cavalier, Robert. "Meta-ethics, Normative Ethics, and Applied Ethics". Online Guide to Ethics and Moral Philosophy. Archived from the original on November 12, 2013. Retrieved February 26, 2014.
Consequentialism refers to moral theories that hold the consequences of a particular action form the basis for any valid moral judgment about that action (or create a structure for judgment, see rule consequentialism). Thus, from a consequentialist standpoint, morally right action is one that produces a good outcome, or consequence. This view is often expressed as the aphorism "The ends justify the means".
^ Serenko, A.; Dumay, J.; Hsiao, P-C.K.; Choo, C.W. (2021). "Do They Practice What They Preach? The Presence of Problematic Citations in Business Ethics Research" (PDF). Journal of Documentation. 77 (6): 1304–1320. doi:10.1108/JD-01-2021-0018. S2CID 237823862. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 23, 2021. Retrieved February 16, 2022.
^ Baqgini, Julian; Fosl, Peter S. (2007). The Ethics Toolkit: A Compendium of Ethical Concepts and Methods. Malden: Blackwell. pp. 57–58. ISBN 978-1-4051-3230-5.
Pyrrhonian moral skepticism holds that the reason we are unjustified in believing any moral claim is that it is irrational for us to believe either that any moral claim is true or that any moral claim is false. Thus, in addition to being agnostic on whether (i) is true, Pyrrhonian moral skepticism denies (ii).
Publication bias occurs when the publication is one-sided or "prejudiced against results".[113] In best practice, an author should try to include information from all parties involved, or affected by the topic. If an author is prejudiced against certain results, than it can "lead to erroneous conclusions being drawn".[114]
Sinnott-Armstrong, Walter (2019), "Moral Skepticism",in Zalta, Edward N. (ed.), The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2019 ed.), Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, archived from the original on July 28, 2020, retrieved July 28, 2020
Emmanuel Levinas and Bracha L. Ettinger, Que dirait Eurydice?"/"What Would Eurydice Say? Paris: BLE Atelier, 1997. Reprinted in Athena: Philosophical Studies. Vol. 2, 2006. http://lkti.lt/athena/pdf/2/100-145.pdf Archived March 4, 2016, at the Wayback Machine
^ Sinnott-Armstrong, Walter (2019), "Moral Skepticism",in Zalta, Edward N. (ed.), The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2019 ed.), Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, archived from the original on July 28, 2020, retrieved July 28, 2020
Meta-ethics is the branch of philosophical ethics that asks how we understand, know about, and what we mean when we talk about what is right and what is wrong.[14] An ethical question pertaining to a particular practical situation—such as, "Should I eat this particular piece of chocolate cake?"—cannot be a meta-ethical question (rather, this is an applied ethical question). A meta-ethical question is abstract and relates to a wide range of more specific practical questions. For example, "Is it ever possible to have a secure knowledge of what is right and wrong?" is a meta-ethical question.[citation needed]
Ferrell, O. C. (2015). Business Ethics: Ethical Decision Making and Cases. ISBN 978-1-305-50084-6.
Nothing in the world—indeed nothing even beyond the world—can possibly be conceived which could be called good without qualification except a good will.[47]
^ See, for example, Lapsley (2006) and "moral psychology" (2007).
Peters, Jamie L.; Sutton, Alex J.; Jones, David R.; Abrams, Keith R.; Rushton, Lesley; Moreno, Santiago G. (July 2010). "Assessing publication bias in meta-analysis in the presence of between-study heterogeneity". Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series A (Statistics in Society). 173 (3): 575–591. doi:10.1111/j.1467-985x.2009.00629.x. S2CID 63959157.
Throughout the philosophical literature, the term "ethical intuitionism" is frequently used with significant variation in its sense. This article's focus on foundationalism reflects the core commitments of contemporary self-identified ethical intuitionists.[26][27]
Kant argued that the only absolutely good thing is a good will, and so the single determining factor of whether an action is morally right is the will, or motive of the person doing it. If they are acting on a bad maxim, e.g. "I will lie", then their action is wrong, even if some good consequences come of it.In his essay, On a Supposed Right to Lie Because of Philanthropic Concerns, arguing against the position of Benjamin Constant, Des réactions politiques, Kant states that "Hence a lie defined merely as an intentionally untruthful declaration to another man does not require the additional condition that it must do harm to another, as jurists require in their definition (mendacium est falsiloquium in praeiudicium alterius). For a lie always harms another; if not some human being, then it nevertheless does harm to humanity in general, inasmuch as it vitiates the very source of right [Rechtsquelle] ... All practical principles of right must contain rigorous truth ... This is because such exceptions would destroy the universality on account of which alone they bear the name of principles."[49]
^ An Intermediate Greek-English Lexicon. New York, Harper & Brothers. 1889. p. 349.
Normative ethics is the study of ethical action. It is the branch of ethics that investigates the set of questions that arise when considering how one ought to act, morally speaking. Normative ethics is distinct from meta-ethics because normative ethics examines standards for the rightness and wrongness of actions, while meta-ethics studies the meaning of moral language and the metaphysics of moral facts.[14] Normative ethics is also distinct from descriptive ethics, as the latter is an empirical investigation of people's moral beliefs. To put it another way, descriptive ethics would be concerned with determining what proportion of people believe that killing is always wrong, while normative ethics is concerned with whether it is correct to hold such a belief. Hence, normative ethics is sometimes called prescriptive rather than descriptive. However, on certain versions of the meta-ethical view called moral realism, moral facts are both descriptive and prescriptive at the same time.[18]
Derrida, J. 1995, The Gift of Death, translated by David Wills, University of Chicago Press, Chicago.
^ Sanjeev, Handa (2008). "Plagiarism and publication ethics: Dos and don'ts". Indian Journal of Dermatology, Venereology and Leprology. 74 (4): 301–303. doi:10.4103/0378-6323.42882. PMID 18797047.
One thing that clearly distinguishes Kantian deontologism from divine command deontology is that Kantianism maintains that man, as a rational being, makes the moral law universal, whereas divine command maintains that God makes the moral law universal.
^ Bentham, Jeremy (2001). The Works of Jeremy Bentham: Published under the Superintendence of His Executor, John Bowring. Volume 1. Adamant Media Corporation. p. 18. ISBN 978-1-4021-6393-7.
Pollock, Griselda. "Aesthetic Wit(h)nessing in the Era of Trauma." In: EurAmerica vol 40 n. 4, December 2010 
Chris Fraser; Dan Robins; Timothy O'Leary (2011). Ethics in Early China: An Anthology. Hong Kong University Press. pp. 17–35. ISBN 978-988-8028-93-1. Archived from the original on May 12, 2016. Retrieved January 8, 2016.
^ Angie Voela and Cigdem Esin, "Movement, Embrace: Adriana Cavarero with Bracha Lichtenberg Ettinger (and the Death Drive)", Hypatia 36 (1):101-119 (2021)
Ten Philosophical Mistakes: Basic Errors In Modern Thought – How they came about, their consequences, and how to avoid them
Miller, C (2009). "The Conditions of Moral Realism". The Journal of Philosophical Research. 34: 123–155. doi:10.5840/jpr_2009_5.
Meta-ethics has always accompanied philosophical ethics. For example, Aristotle implies that less precise knowledge is possible in ethics than in other spheres of inquiry, and he regards ethical knowledge as depending upon habit and acculturation in a way that makes it distinctive from other kinds of knowledge. Meta-ethics is also important in G.E. Moore's Principia Ethica from 1903. In it he first wrote about what he called the naturalistic fallacy. Moore was seen to reject naturalism in ethics, in his open-question argument. This made thinkers look again at second order questions about ethics. Earlier, the Scottish philosopher David Hume had put forward a similar view on the difference between facts and values.[citation needed]
German philosopher Jürgen Habermas has proposed a theory of discourse ethics that he states is a descendant of Kantian ethics.[52] He proposes that action should be based on communication between those involved, in which their interests and intentions are discussed so they can be understood by all. Rejecting any form of coercion or manipulation, Habermas believes that agreement between the parties is crucial for a moral decision to be reached.[53] Like Kantian ethics, discourse ethics is a cognitive ethical theory, in that it supposes that truth and falsity can be attributed to ethical propositions. It also formulates a rule by which ethical actions can be determined and proposes that ethical actions should be universalizable, in a similar way to Kant's ethics.[54]
Angie Voela and Cigdem Esin, "Movement, Embrace: Adriana Cavarero with Bracha Lichtenberg Ettinger (and the Death Drive)", Hypatia 36 (1):101-119 (2021)
Dubljević, Veljko; Sattler, Sebastian; Racine, Eric (2018). "Deciphering moral intuition: How agents, deeds, and consequences influence moral judgment". PLOS One. 13 (10): e0206750. Bibcode:2018PLoSO..1304631D. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0204631. PMC 6166963. PMID 30273370.
^ "Deontological Ethics". Stanford.edu. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2021. Archived from the original on April 25, 2021. Retrieved July 30, 2012.
Doris Schroeder. "Evolutionary Ethics". Archived from the original on October 7, 2013. Retrieved January 5, 2010.
Bracha L. Ettinger, Matrixial Subjectivity, Aesthetics, Ethics. Vol 1: 1990-2000. Ed. by Griselda Pollock. Pelgrave Macmillan 2020
Newton, John Ph.D. Complete Conduct Principles for the 21st Century, 2000. ISBN 0-9673705-7-4.Perle, Stephen (March 11, 2004). "Morality and Ethics: An Introduction". Retrieved February 13, 2007., Butchvarov, Panayot. Skepticism in Ethics (1989).
Cook, Martin L.; Syse, Henrik (2010). "What Should We Mean by 'Military Ethics'?". Journal of Military Ethics. Vol. 9, no. 2. p. 122.
Mill, John Stuart (1998). Utilitarianism. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-875163-2. Archived from the original on June 19, 2012. Retrieved June 28, 2012.
"Mill, John Stuart, Utilitarianism (Project Gutenberg online edition)". Archived from the original on April 15, 2021. Retrieved June 28, 2012.
^ Mackie, J. L. (1990) [1977]. Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong. London: Penguin. ISBN 978-0-14-013558-9.
All of these three theories share the same conclusions, which are as follows:
Tong, Rosemarie; Williams, Nancy (May 4, 2009). "Feminist Ethics". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. The Metaphysics Research Lab. Archived from the original on September 11, 2018. Retrieved January 6, 2017.
^ "Communicaring". In: PostGender: Sexuality and Performativeivity in Japanese Culture. Ed. Ayelet Zohar. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2010
Kant then argues that the consequences of an act of willing cannot be used to determine that the person has a good will; good consequences could arise by accident from an action that was motivated by a desire to cause harm to an innocent person, and bad consequences could arise from an action that was well-motivated. Instead, he claims, a person has goodwill when he 'acts out of respect for the moral law'.[47] People 'act out of respect for the moral law' when they act in some way because they have a duty to do so. So, the only thing that is truly good in itself is goodwill, and goodwill is only good when the willer chooses to do something because it is that person's duty, i.e. out of "respect" for the law. He defines respect as "the concept of a worth which thwarts my self-love".[48]
^ Smith, Marielle, "Subjectivity as Encounter: Feminine Ethics in the Work of Bracha Lichtenberg-Ettinger and Anne Enright", HypatiaVol. 28, No. 3 (SUMMER 2013)
Singer, Peter (2000). Writings on an ethical life (1st ed.). New York: Ecco Press. ISBN 0-06-019838-9. OCLC 44313370.
Roger T. Ames (2011). Confucian Role Ethics: A Vocabulary. University of Hawaiʻi Press. ISBN 978-0-8248-3576-7.
Traditionally, normative ethics (also known as moral theory) was the study of what makes actions right and wrong. These theories offered an overarching moral principle one could appeal to in resolving difficult moral decisions.[citation needed]
^ ""Anarchist morality", chapter VI, Pëtr Kropotkin". Archived from the original on September 28, 2015. Retrieved November 4, 2015.
^ Knight, Will. "This Program Can Give AI a Sense of Ethics—Sometimes". Wired. ISSN 1059-1028. Archived from the original on October 30, 2021. Retrieved October 30, 2021.
^ Birgit M. Kaiser, Kathrin Thiele, "If You Do Well, Carry! The Difference of the Humane: An Interview with Bracha L. Ettinger". philoSOPHIA, Volume 8, Number 1, Winter 2018, pp. 101-125 (Article). https://doi.org/10.1353/phi.2018.0005
^ Van Norden, Bryan W. (2011). Introduction to Classical Chinese Philosophy. Hackett Publishing. p. 52. ISBN 978-1-60384-468-0.
National Reference Center for Bioethics Literature Archived June 21, 2007, at the Wayback Machine World's largest library for ethical issues in medicine and biomedical research
At the turn of the 20th century, moral theories became more complex and were no longer concerned solely with rightness and wrongness, but were interested in many different kinds of moral status. During the middle of the century, the study of normative ethics declined as meta-ethics grew in prominence. This focus on meta-ethics was in part caused by an intense linguistic focus in analytic philosophy and by the popularity of logical positivism.[citation needed]
"Bracha L Ettinger Metafeminist and Feminist Notes. Oxytocin Mothering the World, London March 2019"
Noddings, Nel: Caring: A Feminine Approach to Ethics and Moral Education, pp. 3–4. University of California Press, Berkeley, 1984.
Fagothey, Austin, Right and Reason, Tan Books & Publishers, Rockford, Illinois, 2000.
Antihumanists such as Louis Althusser, Michel Foucault and structuralists such as Roland Barthes challenged the possibilities of individual agency and the coherence of the notion of the 'individual' itself. This was on the basis that personal identity was, in the most part, a social construction. As critical theory developed in the later 20th century, post-structuralism sought to problematize human relationships to knowledge and 'objective' reality. Jacques Derrida argued that access to meaning and the 'real' was always deferred, and sought to demonstrate via recourse to the linguistic realm that "there is no outside-text/non-text" ("il n'y a pas de hors-texte" is often mistranslated as "there is nothing outside the text"); at the same time, Jean Baudrillard theorised that signs and symbols or simulacra mask reality (and eventually the absence of reality itself), particularly in the consumer world.
^ Ancient Ethical Theory Archived May 15, 2019, at the Wayback Machine, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
Fraser, Chris, "Mohism Archived March 21, 2019, at the Wayback Machine", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Edward N. Zalta.
^ "Utilitarian Theories". Department of Philosophy, Carnegie Mellon University. 1996. Archived from the original on May 20, 2014. Retrieved July 28, 2017.
CognitivismMoral realismEthical naturalismEthical non-naturalismEthical subjectivismIdeal observer theoryDivine command theoryError theory
An Intermediate Greek-English Lexicon. New York, Harper & Brothers. 1889. p. 349.
Wager, Elizabeth; Williams, Peter (September 2011). "Why and how do journals retract articles? An analysis of Medline retractions 1988—2008". Journal of Medical Ethics. 37 (9): 567–570. doi:10.1136/jme.2010.040964. JSTOR 23034717. PMID 21486985.
^ Mautner, Michael N. (2000). Seeding the Universe with Life: Securing Our Cosmological Future (PDF). Washington, DC. ISBN 978-0-476-00330-9. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 2, 2012. Retrieved December 23, 2012.
^ Noddings, Nel: Women and Evil, p. 222. University of California Press, Berkeley, 1989.
^ Doris Schroeder. "Evolutionary Ethics". Archived from the original on October 7, 2013. Retrieved January 5, 2010.
^ Wierenga, Edward. 1983. "A Defensible Divine Command Theory". Noûs, Vol. 17, No. 3: 387–407.
Bracha L. Ettinger, "Diotima and the Matrixial Transference: Psychoanalytical Encounter-Event as Pregnancy in Beauty." In: der Merwe, V., Chris N., Viljoen, H., eds. Across the Threshold. Peter Lang, 2007.
Scollon, Ron (June 1999). "Plagiarism". Journal of Linguistic Anthropology. 9 (1–2): 188–190. doi:10.1525/jlin.1999.9.1-2.188. JSTOR 43102462. S2CID 214832669.
Vendemiati, Aldo, In the First Person, An Outline of General Ethics, Rome, Urbaniana University Press, 2004.
methods of dealing with violations of the laws of war.
Lyon, David (1999). Postmodernity (2nd ed.). Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press. ISBN 0-8166-3226-X. OCLC 43648750.
An entire issue of Pacific Island Studies devoted to studying "Constructing Moral Communities" in Pacific islands, 2002, vol. 25: Link[permanent dead link]
"Do They Practice What They Preach? The Presence of Problematic Citations in Business Ethics Research"
Misconduct in research can occur when an experimenter falsifies results.[115] Falsely recorded information occurs when the researcher "fakes" information or data, which was not used when conducting the actual experiment.[115] By faking the data, the researcher can alter the results from the experiment to better fit the hypothesis they originally predicted. When conducting medical research, it is important to honor the healthcare rights of a patient by protecting their anonymity in the publication.[107]Respect for autonomy is the principle that decision-making should allow individuals to be autonomous; they should be able to make decisions that apply to their own lives. This means that individuals should have control of their lives.Justice is the principle that decision-makers must focus on actions that are fair to those affected. Ethical decisions need to be consistent with the ethical theory. There are cases where the management has made decisions that seem to be unfair to the employees, shareholders, and other stakeholders (Solomon, 1992, pp49). Such decisions are unethical.
^ Ellis, C (2007). "Telling secrets, revealing lives: Relational ethics in research with intimate others". Qualitative Inquiry. 13: 3–29. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.574.7450. doi:10.1177/1077800406294947. S2CID 143995976.
^ Kant, Immanuel (1889). The Metaphysical Elements of Ethics. Translated by Thomas Kingsmill Abbott. Longmans, Green & Co. Archived from the original on October 14, 2016. Preface and Introduction to Metaphysische Anfangsgründe der Tugendlehre Archived March 22, 2019, at the Wayback Machine, 1797. Abbott's deontology translates Kant's Pflichtenlehre.
Ellis, C (2007). "Telling secrets, revealing lives: Relational ethics in research with intimate others". Qualitative Inquiry. 13: 3–29. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.574.7450. doi:10.1177/1077800406294947. S2CID 143995976.
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 13:32 (UTC).
^ Bracha L. Ettinger, The Matrixial Gaze. Fine Art, Leeds University, 1995.
^ Ettinger, Bracha L., "Beyond the Death-drive, Beyond the Life-drive—Being-toward-Birthing with Being-toward-Birth. Copoiesis and the Matrixial Eros—Metafeminist Notes." in: Aberrant Nuptials. Edited by P. de Assis & P. Giudici. Leuven Univ. Press. 2019.
Martinez, Veronica Root (October 23, 2019). "More Meaningful Ethics". University of Chicago Law Review. Chicago, IL. SSRN 3474344. Archived from the original on July 30, 2022. Retrieved November 18, 2021.
^ Dubljević, Veljko; Sattler, Sebastian; Racine, Eric (2018). "Deciphering moral intuition: How agents, deeds, and consequences influence moral judgment". PLOS One. 13 (10): e0206750. Bibcode:2018PLoSO..1304631D. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0204631. PMC 6166963. PMID 30273370.
^ a b Smith, Richard (July 26, 1997). "Misconduct in Research: Editors Respond: The Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) Is Formed". British Medical Journal. 315 (7102): 201–202. doi:10.1136/bmj.315.7102.201. JSTOR 25175246. PMC 2127155. PMID 9253258.
Mautner, Michael N. (2000). Seeding the Universe with Life: Securing Our Cosmological Future (PDF). Washington, DC. ISBN 978-0-476-00330-9. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 2, 2012. Retrieved December 23, 2012.
^ Ellis, C. (1995).Final negotiations: A story of love, loss, and chronic illness. Philadelphia: Temple University Press.
Mackie, J. L. (1990) [1977]. Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong. London: Penguin. ISBN 978-0-14-013558-9.
Knight, Will. "This Program Can Give AI a Sense of Ethics—Sometimes". Wired. ISSN 1059-1028. Archived from the original on October 30, 2021. Retrieved October 30, 2021.
""Anarchist morality", chapter VI, Pëtr Kropotkin". Archived from the original on September 28, 2015. Retrieved November 4, 2015.
Kirby Laing Institute for Christian Ethics Resources, events, and research on a range of ethical subjects from a Christian perspective.
Starting from the premise that the goal of ethical philosophy should be to help humans adapt and thrive in evolutionary terms, Kropotkin's ethical framework uses biology and anthropology as a basis – in order to scientifically establish what will best enable a given social order to thrive biologically and socially – and advocates certain behavioural practices to enhance humanity's capacity for freedom and well-being, namely practices which emphasise solidarity, equality, and justice.
^ Jones, C.; Parker, M.;et al. (2005). For Business Ethics: A Critical Text. London: Routledge. p. 17. ISBN 978-0-415-31135-9. Archived from the original on April 15, 2021. Retrieved December 2, 2017.
Applied ethics is used in some aspects of determining public policy, as well as by individuals facing difficult decisions. The sort of questions addressed by applied ethics include: "Is getting an abortion immoral?"; "Is euthanasia immoral?"; "Is affirmative action right or wrong?"; "What are human rights, and how do we determine them?"; "Do animals have rights as well?"; and "Do individuals have the right of self-determination?"[14]
Business ethics has both normative and descriptive dimensions. As a corporate practice and a career specialization, the field is primarily normative. Academics attempting to understand business behavior employ descriptive methods. The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflect the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns. Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s, both within major corporations and within academia. For example, today most major corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters. Adam Smith said, "People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices."[96] Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial directions. Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control.[97] The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes.[98][99] Business ethics also relates to unethical activities of interorganizational relationships, such as strategic alliances, buyer-supplier relationships, or joint ventures. Such unethical practices include, for instance, opportunistic behaviors, contract violations, and deceitful practices.[100]
^ Mill, John Stuart (1998). Utilitarianism. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-875163-2. Archived from the original on June 19, 2012. Retrieved June 28, 2012.
Ettinger, Bracha L., "Beyond the Death-drive, Beyond the Life-drive—Being-toward-Birthing with Being-toward-Birth. Copoiesis and the Matrixial Eros—Metafeminist Notes." in: Aberrant Nuptials. Edited by P. de Assis & P. Giudici. Leuven Univ. Press. 2019.
London Philosophy Study Guide Archived September 23, 2009, at the Wayback Machine offers many suggestions on what to read, depending on the student's familiarity with the subject: Ethics Archived November 11, 2020, at the Wayback Machine
Ethics seeks to resolve questions of human morality by defining concepts such as good and evil, right and wrong, virtue and vice, justice and crime.[4] As a field of intellectual inquiry, moral philosophy is related to the fields of moral psychology, descriptive ethics, and value theory.
Epistemological moral skepticism is a subclass of theory, the members of which include Pyrrhonian moral skepticism and dogmatic moral skepticism. All members of epistemological moral skepticism share two things: first, they acknowledge that we are unjustified in believing any moral claim, and second, they are agnostic on whether (i) is true (i.e. on whether all moral claims are false).
^ "Astroethics". Archived from the original on October 23, 2013. Retrieved December 21, 2005.
Ancient Ethical Theory Archived May 15, 2019, at the Wayback Machine, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
^ Stratton-Lake (2014) http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/intuitionism-ethics/ Archived November 25, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Bentham, Jeremy (2001). The Works of Jeremy Bentham: Published under the Superintendence of His Executor, John Bowring. Volume 1. Adamant Media Corporation. p. 18. ISBN 978-1-4021-6393-7.
^ Ferrell, O. C. (2015). Business Ethics: Ethical Decision Making and Cases. ISBN 978-1-305-50084-6.
Evolutionary ethics concerns approaches to ethics (morality) based on the role of evolution in shaping human psychology and behavior. Such approaches may be based in scientific fields such as evolutionary psychology or sociobiology, with a focus on understanding and explaining observed ethical preferences and choices.[122]
^ Bracha L. Ettinger, "Fascinance. The Woman-to-woman (Girl-to-m/Other) Matrixial Feminine Difference." In: Pollock, Griselda, ed. Psychoanalysis and the Image. Oxford: Blackwell, 2006.
Plagiarism is the failure to give credit to another author's work or ideas, when it is used in the publication.[109] It is the obligation of the editor of the journal to ensure the article does not contain any plagiarism before it is published.[110] If a publication that has already been published is proven to contain plagiarism, the editor of the journal can retract the article.[111] Another critical publication ethics issue pertains to citation plagiarism when researchers copy and paste citation entries from other published works without reading the original source.[112]
Nagel, Thomas, "Types of Intuition: Thomas Nagel on human rights and moral knowledge", London Review of Books, vol. 43, no. 11 (3 June 2021), pp. 3, 5–6, 8. Deontology, consequentialism, utilitarianism.
^ Tong, Rosemarie; Williams, Nancy (May 4, 2009). "Feminist Ethics". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. The Metaphysics Research Lab. Archived from the original on September 11, 2018. Retrieved January 6, 2017.
Utilitarianism is an ethical theory that argues the proper course of action is one that maximizes a positive effect, such as "happiness", "welfare", or the ability to live according to personal preferences.[37] Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill are influential proponents of this school of thought. In A Fragment on Government Bentham says 'it is the greatest happiness of the greatest number that is the measure of right and wrong' and describes this as a fundamental axiom. In An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation he talks of 'the principle of utility' but later prefers "the greatest happiness principle".[38][39]
Ethics Archived March 27, 2010, at the Wayback Machine entry in Encyclopædia Britannica by Peter Singer
"Bracha L Ettinger Metafeminist and Feminist Notes. Oxytocin Mothering the World, London March 2019". YouTube. Archived from the original on February 20, 2022. Retrieved February 24, 2022.
John Paul II, Encyclical Letter Veritatis Splendor, August 6, 1993.
^ Wonsuk Chang; Leah Kalmanson (2010). Confucianism in Context: Classic Philosophy and Contemporary Issues, East Asia and Beyond. SUNY Press. p. 68. ISBN 978-1-4384-3191-8. Archived from the original on May 6, 2016. Retrieved January 8, 2016.
^ Freemont, P. F.; Kitney, R. I. (2012). Synthetic Biology. New Jersey: World Scientific. ISBN 978-1-84816-862-6.
Every rational being must so act as if he were through his maxim always a legislating member in a universal kingdom of ends.
An Introduction to Ethics Archived June 3, 2013, at the Wayback Machine by Paul Newall, aimed at beginners.
^ Kidder, Rushworth (2003). How Good People Make Tough Choices: Resolving the Dilemmas of Ethical Living. New York: HarperCollins. p. 63. ISBN 978-0-688-17590-0.
Practices in arbitration and law, e.g., the claim that ethics itself is a matter of balancing "right versus right", i.e., putting priorities on two things that are both right, but that must be traded off carefully in each situation.
^ Cook, Martin L.; Syse, Henrik (2010). "What Should We Mean by 'Military Ethics'?". Journal of Military Ethics. Vol. 9, no. 2. p. 122.
See, for example, work of Institute for Local Government, at www.ca-ilg.org/trust Archived October 1, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.
^ Peters, Jamie L.; Sutton, Alex J.; Jones, David R.; Abrams, Keith R.; Rushton, Lesley; Moreno, Santiago G. (July 2010). "Assessing publication bias in meta-analysis in the presence of between-study heterogeneity". Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series A (Statistics in Society). 173 (3): 575–591. doi:10.1111/j.1467-985x.2009.00629.x. S2CID 63959157.
Bioethics also needs to address emerging biotechnologies that affect basic biology and future humans. These developments include cloning, gene therapy, human genetic engineering, astroethics and life in space,[92] and manipulation of basic biology through altered DNA, RNA and proteins, e.g. "three parent baby, where baby is born from genetically modified embryos, would have DNA from a mother, a father and from a female donor.[93] Correspondingly, new bioethics also need to address life at its core. For example, biotic ethics value organic gene/protein life itself and seek to propagate it.[94] With such life-centered principles, ethics may secure a cosmological future for life.[95]
^ Wager, Elizabeth; Williams, Peter (September 2011). "Why and how do journals retract articles? An analysis of Medline retractions 1988—2008". Journal of Medical Ethics. 37 (9): 567–570. doi:10.1136/jme.2010.040964. JSTOR 23034717. PMID 21486985.
Some proponents of moral skepticism include Pyrrho, Aenesidemus, Sextus Empiricus, David Hume, Max Stirner, Friedrich Nietzsche, and J.L. Mackie.[citation needed]
Moral error theory holds that we do not know that any moral claim is true because
Descriptive ethics is on the less philosophical end of the spectrum since it seeks to gather particular information about how people live and draw general conclusions based on observed patterns. Abstract and theoretical questions that are more clearly philosophical—such as, "Is ethical knowledge possible?"—are not central to descriptive ethics. Descriptive ethics offers a value-free approach to ethics, which defines it as a social science rather than a humanity. Its examination of ethics does not start with a preconceived theory but rather investigates observations of actual choices made by moral agents in practice. Some philosophers rely on descriptive ethics and choices made and unchallenged by a society or culture to derive categories, which typically vary by context. This can lead to situational ethics and situated ethics. These philosophers often view aesthetics, etiquette, and arbitration as more fundamental, percolating "bottom up" to imply the existence of, rather than explicitly prescribe, theories of value or of conduct. The study of descriptive ethics may include examinations of the following:
Bracha L. Ettinger, "Wit(h)nessing Trauma and the Gaze." In: Vandenbroeck, P. et al eds. The Fascinating Face of Flanders. Through Art and Society (English, Portuguese, Flemish). Stad Antwerpen, 1998
Orend, Brian. 2000. War and International Justice: A Kantian Perspective. West Waterloo, Ontario: Wilfrid Laurier University Press: 19.
Normative ethics, concerning the practical means of determining a moral course of action;
^ Williams, Bernard. Ethics and the Limits of Philosophy. p. 1.
Wierenga, Edward. 1983. "A Defensible Divine Command Theory". Noûs, Vol. 17, No. 3: 387–407.
Cools, Guy & Gielen, Pascal. The Ethics of Art. Valiz: Amsterdam, 2014.Jadranka Skorin-Kapov, The Intertwining of Aesthetics and Ethics: Exceeding of Expectations, Ecstasy, Sublimity. Lexington Books, 2016. ISBN 978-1-4985-2456-8De Finance, Joseph, An Ethical Inquiry, Rome, Editrice Pontificia Università Gregoriana, 1991.
This principle of treating others as one wishes to be treated oneself, what is it but the very same principle as equality, the fundamental principle of anarchism? And how can any one manage to believe himself an anarchist unless he practices it? We do not wish to be ruled. And by this very fact, do we not declare that we ourselves wish to rule nobody? We do not wish to be deceived, we wish always to be told nothing but the truth. And by this very fact, do we not declare that we ourselves do not wish to deceive anybody, that we promise to always tell the truth, nothing but the truth, the whole truth? We do not wish to have the fruits of our labor stolen from us. And by that very fact, do we not declare that we respect the fruits of others' labor? By what right indeed can we demand that we should be treated in one fashion, reserving it to ourselves to treat others in a fashion entirely different? Our sense of equality revolts at such an idea.[86]
Zygmunt Bauman says postmodernity is best described as modernity without illusion, the illusion being the belief that humanity can be repaired by some ethic principle. Postmodernity can be seen in this light as accepting the messy nature of humanity as unchangeable. In this postmodern world, the means to act collectively and globally to solve large-scale problems have been all but discredited, dismantled or lost. Problems can be handled only locally and each on its own. All problem-handling means building a mini-order at the expense of order elsewhere, and at the cost of rising global disorder as well as depleting the shrinking supplies of resources which make ordering possible. He considers Emmanuel Levinas's ethics as postmodern. Unlike the modern ethical philosophy which leaves the Other on the outside of the self as an ambivalent presence, Levinas's philosophy readmits her as a neighbor and as a crucial character in the process through which the moral self comes into its own.[87]
Immanuel Kant's theory of ethics is considered deontological for several different reasons.[44][45] First, Kant argues that to act in the morally right way, people must act from duty (Pflicht).[46] Second, Kant argued that it was not the consequences of actions that make them right or wrong but the motives of the person who carries out the action.
^ Bracha L. Ettinger, Matrixial Subjectivity, Aesthetics, Ethics. Vol 1: 1990-2000. Ed. by Griselda Pollock. Pelgrave Macmillan 2020
Bioethics is the study of controversial ethics brought about by advances in biology and medicine. Bioethicists are concerned with the ethical questions that arise in the relationships among life sciences, biotechnology, medicine, politics, law, and philosophy. It also includes the study of the more commonplace questions of values ("the ethics of the ordinary") that arise in primary care and other branches of medicine.
Loewe, Michael; Shaughnessy, Edward L. (1999). The Cambridge History of Ancient China. Cambridge University Press. p. 761. ISBN 978-0-521-47030-8.
Kant, Immanuel. 1785. 'First Section: Transition from the Common Rational Knowledge of Morals to the Philosophical', Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals.
Smith, Marielle, "Subjectivity as Encounter: Feminine Ethics in the Work of Bracha Lichtenberg-Ettinger and Anne Enright", HypatiaVol. 28, No. 3 (SUMMER 2013)
Wager, E.; Fiack, S.; Graf, C.; Robinson, A.; Rowlands, I. (March 31, 2009). "Science journal editors' views on publication ethics: results of an international survey". Journal of Medical Ethics. 35 (6): 348–353. doi:10.1136/jme.2008.028324. PMID 19482976. Archived from the original on December 23, 2015. Retrieved April 30, 2015.
Ethics Bites Archived November 22, 2011, at the Wayback Machine, Open University podcast series podcast exploring ethical dilemmas in everyday life.
Cudworth, Ralph. 1731. A Treatise Concerning Eternal and Immutable Morality. Reprinted in 1996. Sarah Hutton (ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kropotkin argues that ethics itself is evolutionary, and is inherited as a sort of a social instinct through cultural history, and by so, he rejects any religious and transcendental explanation of morality. The origin of ethical feeling in both animals and humans can be found, he claims, in the natural fact of "sociality" (mutualistic symbiosis), which humans can then combine with the instinct for justice (i.e. equality) and then with the practice of reason to construct a non-supernatural and anarchistic system of ethics.[85] Kropotkin suggests that the principle of equality at the core of anarchism is the same as the Golden rule:
Care-focused feminism is a branch of feminist thought, informed primarily by ethics of care as developed by Carol Gilligan[57] and Nel Noddings.[58] This body of theory is critical of how caring is socially assigned to women, and consequently devalued. They write, "Care-focused feminists regard women's capacity for care as a human strength," that should be taught to and expected of men as well as women. Noddings proposes that ethical caring has the potential to be a more concrete evaluative model of moral dilemma than an ethic of justice.[59] Noddings’ care-focused feminism requires practical application of relational ethics, predicated on an ethic of care.[60]
Moral psychology is a field of study that began as an issue in philosophy and that is now properly considered part of the discipline of psychology. Some use the term "moral psychology" relatively narrowly to refer to the study of moral development.[119] However, others tend to use the term more broadly to include any topics at the intersection of ethics and psychology (and philosophy of mind).[120] Such topics are ones that involve the mind and are relevant to moral issues. Some of the main topics of the field are moral responsibility, moral development, moral character (especially as related to virtue ethics), altruism, psychological egoism, moral luck, and moral disagreement.[121]
"Communicaring". In: PostGender: Sexuality and Performativeivity in Japanese Culture. Ed. Ayelet Zohar. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2010
^ Martinez, Veronica Root (October 23, 2019). "More Meaningful Ethics". University of Chicago Law Review. Chicago, IL. SSRN 3474344. Archived from the original on July 30, 2022. Retrieved November 18, 2021.
Williams, Bernard. Ethics and the Limits of Philosophy. p. 1.
^ Anscombe, G. E. M. (1958). "Modern Moral Philosophy". Philosophy. 33 (124): 1–19. doi:10.1017/S0031819100037943. S2CID 197875941. Archived from the original on January 31, 2010. Retrieved December 14, 2009.
^ Emmanuel Levinas and Bracha L. Ettinger, Que dirait Eurydice?"/"What Would Eurydice Say? Paris: BLE Atelier, 1997. Reprinted in Athena: Philosophical Studies. Vol. 2, 2006. http://lkti.lt/athena/pdf/2/100-145.pdf Archived March 4, 2016, at the Wayback Machine
Bauman, Zygmunt (1993). Postmodern Ethics. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers. pp. 84, 245.
^ a b c d e William S. Sahakian; Mabel Lewis Sahakian (1966). Ideas of the Great Philosophers. Barnes & Noble. ISBN 978-1-56619-271-2.
Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy ""Ethics"". Archived from the original on January 18, 2018. Retrieved January 7, 2012.
"Über ein vermeintes Recht aus Menschenliebe zu lügen", Berlinische Blätter 1 (1797), 301–314; edited in: Werke in zwölf Bänden, vol. 8, Frankfurt am Main (1977), zeno.org/nid/20009192123 Archived July 30, 2022, at the Wayback Machine.
^ Ettinger, Bracha L., "Matrix and Metramorphosis." In:Differences. Vol. 4, nº 3, 1992.
Professor Michiel S.S. De De Vries; Professor Pan Suk Kim (2011). Value and Virtue in Public Administration: A Comparative Perspective. Palgrave Macmillan. p. 42. ISBN 978-0-230-35709-9.
Blackburn, S. (2001). Being good: A short introduction to ethics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
^ a b Ivanhoe, P. J.; Van Norden, Bryan William (2005). Readings in classical Chinese philosophy. Hackett Publishing. p. 60. ISBN 978-0-87220-780-6. he advocated a form of state consequentialism, which sought to maximize three basic goods: the wealth, order, and population of the state
^ "Mill, John Stuart, Utilitarianism (Project Gutenberg online edition)". Archived from the original on April 15, 2021. Retrieved June 28, 2012.
Act only according to that maxim by which you can also will that it would become a universal law.
Lafollette, Hugh, ed. (2000). The Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory. Blackwell Philosophy Guides (1 ed.). Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN 978-0-631-20119-9.
And it has not only been shown that people consider the character of the moral agent (i.e. a principle implied in virtue ethics), the deed of the action (i.e. a principle implied in deontology), and the consequences of the action (i.e. a principle implied in utilitarianism) when formulating moral judgments, but moreover that the effect of each of these three components depends on the value of each component.[91]
Being good: A short introduction to ethics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Stanford sinologist David Shepherd Nivison, in The Cambridge History of Ancient China, writes that the moral goods of Mohism "are interrelated: more basic wealth, then more reproduction; more people, then more production and wealth … if people have plenty, they would be good, filial, kind, and so on unproblematically."[32] The Mohists believed that morality is based on "promoting the benefit of all under heaven and eliminating harm to all under heaven". In contrast to Bentham's views, state consequentialism is not utilitarian because it is not hedonistic or individualistic. The importance of outcomes that are good for the community outweighs the importance of individual pleasure and pain.[34]
Publication ethics is the set of principles that guide the writing and publishing process for all professional publications. To follow these principles, authors must verify that the publication does not contain plagiarism or publication bias.[107] As a way to avoid misconduct in research these principles can also apply to experiments that are referenced or analyzed in publications by ensuring the data is recorded honestly and accurately.[108]
"Are We Professionals? A Critical Look at the Social Role of Bioethicists". Daedalus. 1999. pp. 253–274.
Post-structuralism and postmodernism argue that ethics must study the complex and relational conditions of actions. A simple alignment of ideas of right and particular acts is not possible. There will always be an ethical remainder that cannot be taken into account or often even recognized. Such theorists find narrative (or, following Nietzsche and Foucault, genealogy) to be a helpful tool for understanding ethics because narrative is always about particular lived experiences in all their complexity rather than the assignment of an idea or norm to separate and individual actions.
3Normative ethics											Toggle Normative ethics subsection																					3.1Virtue ethics																								3.1.1Stoicism																											3.1.2Contemporary virtue ethics																														3.2Intuitive ethics																											3.3Hedonism																								3.3.1Cyrenaic hedonism																											3.3.2Epicureanism																														3.4State consequentialism																											3.5Consequentialism																								3.5.1Utilitarianism																														3.6Deontology																								3.6.1Kantianism																											3.6.2Divine command theory																											3.6.3Discourse ethics																														3.7Pragmatic ethics																											3.8Ethics of care																											3.9Feminist matrixial ethics																											3.10Role ethics																											3.11Anarchist ethics																											3.12Postmodern ethics
Relational ethics are related to an ethics of care.[57]: 62–63  They are used in qualitative research, especially ethnography and autoethnography. Researchers who employ relational ethics value and respect the connection between themselves and the people they study, and "...between researchers and the communities in which they live and work." (Ellis, 2007, p. 4).[116] Relational ethics also help researchers understand difficult issues such as conducting research on intimate others that have died and developing friendships with their participants.[117][118] Relational ethics in close personal relationships form a central concept of contextual therapy.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Verst, Ludger; Kampmann, Susanne; Eilers, Franz-Josef (July 27, 2015). Die Literaturrundschau. Communicatio Socialis. OCLC 914511982.
Kidder, Rushworth (2003). How Good People Make Tough Choices: Resolving the Dilemmas of Ethical Living. New York: HarperCollins. p. 63. ISBN 978-0-688-17590-0.
The term "consequentialism" was coined by G.E.M. Anscombe in her essay "Modern Moral Philosophy" in 1958, to describe what she saw as the central error of certain moral theories, such as those propounded by Mill and Sidgwick.[35] Since then, the term has become common in English-language ethical theory.
Mautner, Michael N. (2009). "Life-centered ethics, and the human future in space" (PDF). Bioethics. 23 (8): 433–440. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8519.2008.00688.x. PMID 19077128. S2CID 25203457. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 2, 2012. Retrieved December 23, 2012.
"Misconduct in Research: Editors Respond: The Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) Is Formed"
Berle, A.A., & Means, G.C. (1932). The Modern Corporation and Private Property. New Jersey: Transaction Publishers. In this book, Berle and Means observe, "Corporations have ceased to be merely legal devices through which the private business transactions of individuals may be carried on. Though still much used for this purpose, the corporate form has acquired a much larger significance. The corporation has, in fact, become both a method of property tenure and a means of organizing economic life. Grown to tremendous proportions, there may be said to have evolved a 'corporate system'—as there once was a feudal system—which has attracted to itself a combination of attributes and powers, and has attained a degree of prominence entitling it to be dealt with as a major social institution. ... We are examining this institution probably before it has attained its zenith. Spectacular as its rise has been, every indication seems to be that the system will move forward to proportions which stagger imagination today ... They [management] have placed the community in a position to demand that the modern corporation serve not only the owners ... but all society." p. 1.
^ Bracha L. Ettinger, "Diotima and the Matrixial Transference: Psychoanalytical Encounter-Event as Pregnancy in Beauty." In: der Merwe, V., Chris N., Viljoen, H., eds. Across the Threshold. Peter Lang, 2007.
^ Bracha L. Ettinger, "Wit(h)nessing Trauma and the Gaze." In: Vandenbroeck, P. et al eds. The Fascinating Face of Flanders. Through Art and Society (English, Portuguese, Flemish). Stad Antwerpen, 1998
^ Random House Unabridged Dictionary: Entry on Axiology. Archived March 3, 2016, at the Wayback Machine
De La Torre, Miguel A., "Doing Christian Ethics from the Margins", Orbis Books, 2004.
^ a b c "What is ethics?". BBC. Archived from the original on October 28, 2013. Retrieved July 22, 2014.
Three major areas of study within ethics recognized today are:[2]
Bracha L. Ettinger, "Fascinance. The Woman-to-woman (Girl-to-m/Other) Matrixial Feminine Difference." In: Pollock, Griselda, ed. Psychoanalysis and the Image. Oxford: Blackwell, 2006.
^ "Are We Professionals? A Critical Look at the Social Role of Bioethicists". Daedalus. 1999. pp. 253–274.
Ethics of quantification is the study of the ethical issues associated to different forms of visible or invisible forms of quantification.
Ehrlich, Paul R. (May 2016), Conference on population, environment, ethics: where we stand now (video, 93 min), University of Lausanne
^ Fraser, Chris, "Mohism Archived March 21, 2019, at the Wayback Machine", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Edward N. Zalta.
Markkula Center for Applied Ethics at Santa Clara University Resources for analyzing real-world ethical issues and tools to address them.
^ a b c Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy ""Ethics"". Archived from the original on January 18, 2018. Retrieved January 7, 2012.
Ethical intuitionism was first clearly shown in use by the philosopher Francis Hutcheson. Later ethical intuitionists of influence and note include Henry Sidgwick, G.E. Moore, Harold Arthur Prichard, C.S. Lewis and, most influentially, Robert Audi.[citation needed]
Valluvar (before 5th century CE) keeps virtue, or aṟam (dharma) as he calls it, as the cornerstone throughout the writing of the Kural literature.[20] While religious scriptures generally consider aṟam as divine in nature, Valluvar describes it as a way of life rather than any spiritual observance, a way of harmonious living that leads to universal happiness.[21] Contrary to what other contemporary works say, Valluvar holds that aṟam is common for all, irrespective of whether the person is a bearer of palanquin or the rider in it. Valluvar considered justice as a facet of aṟam. While ancient Greek philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, and their descendants opined that justice cannot be defined and that it was a divine mystery, Valluvar positively suggested that a divine origin is not required to define the concept of justice. In the words of V. R. Nedunchezhiyan, justice according to Valluvar "dwells in the minds of those who have knowledge of the standard of right and wrong; so too deceit dwells in the minds which breed fraud."[21]
4Applied ethics											Toggle Applied ethics subsection																					4.1Specific questions																											4.2Particular fields of application																								4.2.1Bioethics																											4.2.2Business ethics																											4.2.3Machine ethics																											4.2.4Military ethics																											4.2.5Political ethics																											4.2.6Public sector ethics																											4.2.7Publication ethics																											4.2.8Relational ethics																											4.2.9Ethics of nanotechnologies																											4.2.10Ethics of quantification																											4.2.11Animal ethics																											4.2.12Ethics of technology
A more specific question could be: "If someone else can make better out of his/her life than I can, is it then moral to sacrifice myself for them if needed?" Without these questions, there is no clear fulcrum on which to balance law, politics, and the practice of arbitration—in fact, no common assumptions of all participants—so the ability to formulate the questions are prior to rights balancing. But not all questions studied in applied ethics concern public policy. For example, making ethical judgments regarding questions such as, "Is lying always wrong?" and, "If not, when is it permissible?" is prior to any etiquette.
Political ethics (also known as political morality or public ethics) is the practice of making moral judgements about political action and political agents.[105]
Levinas, E. 1969, Totality and infinity, an essay on exteriority, translated by Alphonso Lingis, Duquesne University Press, Pittsburgh.
"Deciphering moral intuition: How agents, deeds, and consequences influence moral judgment"
""Ethics: Origin and Development" by Pëtr Kropotkin" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on October 6, 2014. Retrieved August 11, 2014.
State consequentialism, also known as Mohist consequentialism,[30] is an ethical theory that evaluates the moral worth of an action based on how much it contributes to the basic goods of a state.[30] The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy describes Mohist consequentialism, dating back to the 5th century BC, as "a remarkably sophisticated version based on a plurality of intrinsic goods taken as constitutive of human welfare".[31] Unlike utilitarianism, which views pleasure as a moral good, "the basic goods in Mohist consequentialist thinking are … order, material wealth, and increase in population".[32] During Mozi's era, war and famines were common, and population growth was seen as a moral necessity for a harmonious society. The "material wealth" of Mohist consequentialism refers to basic needs like shelter and clothing, and the "order" of Mohist consequentialism refers to Mozi's stance against warfare and violence, which he viewed as pointless and a threat to social stability.[33]
^ Paul, Richard; Elder, Linda (2006). The Miniature Guide to Understanding the Foundations of Ethical Reasoning. United States: Foundation for Critical Thinking Free Press. p. np. ISBN 978-0-944583-17-3.
Bracha L. Ettinger, "Trans-Subjective Transferential Borderspace." In: Mazin, V., Tourkina, O., and Seppala, M., eds. Doctor and Patient. Memory and Amnesia. Ylojarvi: Pori Art Museum Publications, 1997. Reprinted: Brian Massumi, ed. A Shock to Thought. Routledge, 2002
"Definition of ethic by Merriam Webster". Merriam Webster. Archived from the original on October 24, 2016. Retrieved October 4, 2015.
Jones, C.; Parker, M.;et al. (2005). For Business Ethics: A Critical Text. London: Routledge. p. 17. ISBN 978-0-415-31135-9. Archived from the original on April 15, 2021. Retrieved December 2, 2017.
David Couzens Hoy states that Emmanuel Levinas's writings on the face of the Other and Derrida's meditations on the relevance of death to ethics are signs of the "ethical turn" in Continental philosophy that occurred in the 1980s and 1990s. Hoy describes post-critique ethics as the "obligations that present themselves as necessarily to be fulfilled but are neither forced on one or are enforceable".[88]
^ Wallach, Wendell; Allen, Colin (2008). Moral Machines: Teaching Robots Right from Wrong. USA: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-537404-9.
John Deigh in Robert Audi (ed), The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, 1995.
Applied ethics is a discipline of philosophy that attempts to apply ethical theory to real-life situations. The discipline has many specialized fields, such as engineering ethics, bioethics, geoethics, public service ethics and business ethics.
^ Hary Gunarto, Ethical Issues in Cyberspace and IT Society, Symposium on Whither The Age of Uncertainty, APU Univ., paper Archived October 26, 2017, at the Wayback Machine,Jan. 2003
See, for example, Doris & Stich (2008) and Wallace (2007). Wallace writes: "Moral psychology is the study of morality in its psychological dimensions" (p. 86).
^ a b John Newton, Ph.D., Complete Conduct Principles for the 21st Century (2000). ISBN 0-9673705-7-4.
"Why and how do journals retract articles? An analysis of Medline retractions 1988—2008"
^ See, for example, Doris & Stich (2008) and Wallace (2007). Wallace writes: "Moral psychology is the study of morality in its psychological dimensions" (p. 86).
Ethical codes applied by various groups. Some consider aesthetics itself the basis of ethics—and a personal moral core developed through art and storytelling as very influential in one's later ethical choices.
Noncognitivism holds that we can never know that any moral claim is true because moral claims are incapable of being true or false (they are not truth-apt). Instead, moral claims are imperatives (e.g. "Don't steal babies!"), expressions of emotion (e.g. "stealing babies: Boo!"), or expressions of "pro-attitudes" ("I do not believe that babies should be stolen.")
^ a b Chris Fraser; Dan Robins; Timothy O'Leary (2011). Ethics in Early China: An Anthology. Hong Kong University Press. pp. 17–35. ISBN 978-988-8028-93-1. Archived from the original on May 12, 2016. Retrieved January 8, 2016.
Azurmendi, J. 1998: "The violence and the search for new values" in Euskal Herria krisian, (Elkar, 1999), pp. 11–116. ISBN 84-8331-572-6
The ontology of ethics is about value-bearing things or properties, that is, the kind of things or stuff referred to by ethical propositions. Non-descriptivists and non-cognitivists believe that ethics does not need a specific ontology since ethical propositions do not refer. This is known as an anti-realist position. Realists, on the other hand, must explain what kind of entities, properties or states are relevant for ethics, how they have value, and why they guide and motivate our actions.[16]
Goffi, Emmanuel (2011). Les Armée Françaises Face à la Morale [The French Army Facing Morale] (in French). France: L'Harmattan. ISBN 978-2-296-54249-5. Archived from the original on April 30, 2016. Retrieved January 8, 2016.
^ "Über ein vermeintes Recht aus Menschenliebe zu lügen", Berlinische Blätter 1 (1797), 301–314; edited in: Werke in zwölf Bänden, vol. 8, Frankfurt am Main (1977), zeno.org/nid/20009192123 Archived July 30, 2022, at the Wayback Machine.
Encyclopedia of Ethics. Lawrence C. Becker and Charlotte B. Becker, editors. Second edition in three volumes. New York: Routledge, 2002. A scholarly encyclopedia with over 500 signed, peer-reviewed articles, mostly on topics and figures of, or of special interest in, Western philosophy.
Williams, Bernard. Ethics and the Limits of Philosophy. p. 2.
Objections to ethical intuitionism include whether or not there are objective moral values (an assumption which the ethical system is based upon) the question of why many disagree over ethics if they are absolute, and whether Occam's razor cancels such a theory out entirely.[citation needed]
^ "Non-Cognitivism in Ethics | Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy". Archived from the original on November 11, 2020. Retrieved June 18, 2011.
Modern virtue ethics was popularized during the late 20th century in large part due to a revival of Aristotelianism, and as a response to G.E.M. Anscombe's "Modern Moral Philosophy". Anscombe argues that consequentialist and deontological ethics are only feasible as universal theories if the two schools ground themselves in divine law. As a deeply devoted Christian herself, Anscombe proposed that either those who do not give ethical credence to notions of divine law take up virtue ethics, which does not necessitate universal laws as agents themselves are investigated for virtue or vice and held up to "universal standards", or that those who wish to be utilitarian or consequentialist ground their theories in religious conviction.[22] Alasdair MacIntyre, who wrote the book After Virtue, was a key contributor and proponent of modern virtue ethics, although some claim that MacIntyre supports a relativistic account of virtue based on cultural norms, not objective standards.[22] Martha Nussbaum, a contemporary virtue ethicist, objects to MacIntyre's relativism, among that of others, and responds to relativist objections to form an objective account in her work "Non-Relative Virtues: An Aristotelian Approach".[23] However, Nussbaum's accusation of relativism appears to be a misreading. In Whose Justice, Whose Rationality?, MacIntyre's ambition of taking a rational path beyond relativism was quite clear when he stated "rival claims made by different traditions […] are to be evaluated […] without relativism" (p. 354) because indeed "rational debate between and rational choice among rival traditions is possible" (p. 352). Complete Conduct Principles for the 21st Century[24] blended the Eastern virtue ethics and the Western virtue ethics, with some modifications to suit the 21st Century, and formed a part of contemporary virtue ethics.[24]Mortimer J. Adler described Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics as a "unique book in the Western tradition of moral philosophy, the only ethics that is sound, practical, and undogmatic."[25]
Serenko, A.; Dumay, J.; Hsiao, P-C.K.; Choo, C.W. (2021). "Do They Practice What They Preach? The Presence of Problematic Citations in Business Ethics Research" (PDF). Journal of Documentation. 77 (6): 1304–1320. doi:10.1108/JD-01-2021-0018. S2CID 237823862. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 23, 2021. Retrieved February 16, 2022.
Wonsuk Chang; Leah Kalmanson (2010). Confucianism in Context: Classic Philosophy and Contemporary Issues, East Asia and Beyond. SUNY Press. p. 68. ISBN 978-1-4384-3191-8. Archived from the original on May 6, 2016. Retrieved January 8, 2016.
Dogmatic moral skepticism, on the other hand, affirms (ii) and cites (ii)'s truth as the reason we are unjustified in believing any moral claim.
Solomon, R.C., Morality and the Good Life: An Introduction to Ethics Through Classical Sources, New York: McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1984.
Kant's argument that to act in the morally right way one must act purely from duty begins with an argument that the highest good must be both good in itself and good without qualification.[47] Something is "good in itself" when it is intrinsically good, and "good without qualification", when the addition of that thing never makes a situation ethically worse. Kant then argues that those things that are usually thought to be good, such as intelligence, perseverance and pleasure, fail to be either intrinsically good or good without qualification. Pleasure, for example, appears not to be good without qualification, because when people take pleasure in watching someone suffer, this seems to make the situation ethically worse. He concludes that there is only one thing that is truly good:
Velusamy, N.; Faraday, Moses Michael, eds. (February 2017). Why Should Thirukkural Be Declared the National Book of India?. Unique Media Integrators. p. 55. ISBN 978-93-85471-70-4.
Associated with the pragmatists Charles Sanders Peirce, William James, and especially John Dewey, pragmatic ethics holds that moral correctness evolves similarly to scientific knowledge: socially over the course of many lifetimes. Thus, we should prioritize social reform over attempts to account for consequences, individual virtue or duty (although these may be worthwhile attempts, if social reform is provided for).[56]
^ Sim, May, 2015, "Why Confucius' Ethics is a Virtue Ethics", in Besser-Jones and Slote (2015), pp. 63–76
Carol Gilligan (2009). In a Different Voice. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-03761-8.
^ Bauman, Zygmunt (1993). Postmodern Ethics. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers. pp. 84, 245.
Ivanhoe, P. J.; Van Norden, Bryan William (2005). Readings in classical Chinese philosophy. Hackett Publishing. p. 60. ISBN 978-0-87220-780-6. he advocated a form of state consequentialism, which sought to maximize three basic goods: the wealth, order, and population of the state
Confucianism in Context: Classic Philosophy and Contemporary Issues, East Asia and Beyond
Smith, Richard (July 26, 1997). "Misconduct in Research: Editors Respond: The Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) Is Formed". British Medical Journal. 315 (7102): 201–202. doi:10.1136/bmj.315.7102.201. JSTOR 25175246. PMC 2127155. PMID 9253258.
^ Goffi, Emmanuel (2011). Les Armée Françaises Face à la Morale [The French Army Facing Morale] (in French). France: L'Harmattan. ISBN 978-2-296-54249-5. Archived from the original on April 30, 2016. Retrieved January 8, 2016.
Thompson, Dennis F. "Political Ethics". International Encyclopedia of Ethics, ed. Hugh LaFollette (Blackwell Publishing, 2012).
^ a b Professor Michiel S.S. De De Vries; Professor Pan Suk Kim (2011). Value and Virtue in Public Administration: A Comparative Perspective. Palgrave Macmillan. p. 42. ISBN 978-0-230-35709-9.
Baqgini, Julian; Fosl, Peter S. (2007). The Ethics Toolkit: A Compendium of Ethical Concepts and Methods. Malden: Blackwell. pp. 57–58. ISBN 978-1-4051-3230-5.
Ethical intuitionism (also called moral intuitionism) is a family of views in moral epistemology (and, on some definitions, metaphysics). At minimum, ethical intuitionism is the thesis that our intuitive awareness of value, or intuitive knowledge of evaluative facts, forms the foundation of our ethical knowledge.
The view is at its core a foundationalism about moral knowledge: it is the view that some moral truths can be known non-inferentially (i.e., known without one needing to infer them from other truths one believes). Such an epistemological view implies that there are moral beliefs with propositional contents; so it implies cognitivism. As such, ethical intuitionism is to be contrasted with coherentist approaches to moral epistemology, such as those that depend on reflective equilibrium.[26]
decisions on choice of weaponry, and what collateral effects such weaponry may have.
Hoy's post-critique model uses the term ethical resistance. Examples of this would be an individual's resistance to consumerism in a retreat to a simpler but perhaps harder lifestyle, or an individual's resistance to a terminal illness. Hoy describes Levinas's account as "not the attempt to use power against itself, or to mobilize sectors of the population to exert their political power; the ethical resistance is instead the resistance of the powerless".[89]
Military ethics involves multiple subareas, including the following among others:
^ Olson, Robert G. 1967. 'Deontological Ethics'. In Paul Edwards (ed.) The Encyclopedia of Philosophy. London: Collier Macmillan: 343.
"Science journal editors' views on publication ethics: results of an international survey"
Epicurean ethics is a hedonist form of virtue ethics. Epicurus "presented a sustained argument that pleasure, correctly understood, will coincide with virtue."[29] He rejected the extremism of the Cyrenaics, believing some pleasures and indulgences to be detrimental to human beings. Epicureans observed that indiscriminate indulgence sometimes resulted in negative consequences. Some experiences were therefore rejected out of hand, and some unpleasant experiences endured in the present to ensure a better life in the future. To Epicurus, the summum bonum, or greatest good, was prudence, exercised through moderation and caution. Excessive indulgence can be destructive to pleasure and can even lead to pain. For example, eating one food too often makes a person lose a taste for it. Eating too much food at once leads to discomfort and ill-health. Pain and fear were to be avoided. Living was essentially good, barring pain and illness. Death was not to be feared. Fear was considered the source of most unhappiness. Conquering the fear of death would naturally lead to a happier life. Epicurus reasoned if there were an afterlife and immortality, the fear of death was irrational. If there was no life after death, then the person would not be alive to suffer, fear, or worry; he would be non-existent in death. It is irrational to fret over circumstances that do not exist, such as one's state of death in the absence of an afterlife.[19]: 37–38
Care ethics contrasts with more well-known ethical models, such as consequentialist theories (e.g. utilitarianism) and deontological theories (e.g., Kantian ethics) in that it seeks to incorporate traditionally feminized virtues and values that—proponents of care ethics contend—are absent in such traditional models of ethics. These values include the importance of empathetic relationships and compassion.
^ a b Morton, Neil (October 2009). "Publication ethics" (PDF). Pediatric Anesthesia. 19 (10): 1011–1013. doi:10.1111/j.1460-9592.2009.03086.x. PMID 19619189. S2CID 45641680. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 22, 2018. Retrieved October 14, 2019.
Emmanuel Levinas and Bracha L. Ettinger, Time is the Breath of the Spirit. Oxford: Museum of Modern Art, 1993.
Olson, Robert G. 1967. 'Deontological Ethics'. In Paul Edwards (ed.) The Encyclopedia of Philosophy. London: Collier Macmillan: 343.
Random House Unabridged Dictionary: Entry on Axiology. Archived March 3, 2016, at the Wayback Machine
Freemont, P. F.; Kitney, R. I. (2012). Synthetic Biology. New Jersey: World Scientific. ISBN 978-1-84816-862-6.
^ Sigelman, Lee (2000). "Publication Bias Reconsidered". Political Analysis. 8 (2): 201–210. doi:10.1093/oxfordjournals.pan.a029813. JSTOR 25791607.
^ Carter, Craig R. (2000). "Precursors of Unethical Behavior in Global Supplier Management". Journal of Supply Chain Management. 36 (4): 45–56. doi:10.1111/j.1745-493X.2000.tb00069.x. ISSN 1745-493X.
^ Miller, C (2009). "The Conditions of Moral Realism". The Journal of Philosophical Research. 34: 123–155. doi:10.5840/jpr_2009_5.
Hoy, David Couzens (February 20, 2004). Critical Resistance: From Poststructuralism to Post-Critique. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. doi:10.7551/mitpress/2217.001.0001. ISBN 978-0-262-27579-8. OCLC 57141749.
^ Smith, A (1776/1952). An Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations. Chicago, Illinois: University of Chicago Press, p. 55.
^ Bracha L. Ettinger, "Trans-Subjective Transferential Borderspace." In: Mazin, V., Tourkina, O., and Seppala, M., eds. Doctor and Patient. Memory and Amnesia. Ylojarvi: Pori Art Museum Publications, 1997. Reprinted: Brian Massumi, ed. A Shock to Thought. Routledge, 2002
^ Emmanuel Levinas and Bracha L. Ettinger, Time is the Breath of the Spirit. Oxford: Museum of Modern Art, 1993.
^ a b Roger T. Ames (2011). Confucian Role Ethics: A Vocabulary. University of Hawaiʻi Press. ISBN 978-0-8248-3576-7.
Kelly, Eugene. 2006. The Basics of Western Philosophy. Greenwood Press: 160.
^ ""Ethics: Origin and Development" by Pëtr Kropotkin" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on October 6, 2014. Retrieved August 11, 2014.
^ "Definition of ethic by Merriam Webster". Merriam Webster. Archived from the original on October 24, 2016. Retrieved October 4, 2015.
On a Supposed Right to Lie Because of Philanthropic Concerns
^ Noddings, Nel: Caring: A Feminine Approach to Ethics and Moral Education, pp. 3–4. University of California Press, Berkeley, 1984.
