The 1996 Virgin Missing Adventures novel The Scales of Injustice by Gary Russell also explores the events surrounding Liz's resignation from UNIT. Liz additionally appears with UNIT in the Missing Adventures novel The Eye of the Giant (1996) and the Past Doctor Adventures novel The Devil Goblins from Neptune (1997). Scales of Injustice directly acknowledges that Liz left UNIT because she felt surplus to requirements with the Doctor around and wanted to focus more on scientific research, the Doctor assuring her that he understood her reasons and regretted that they hadn't been able to spend more time together as friends. Liz eventually does travel in the TARDIS with the Third Doctor and Jo Grant in the Past Doctor Adventures novel The Wages of Sin (1999), which takes place after the Doctor regains his freedom, with the Doctor's attempt to take her to witness the Tunguska Event accidentally resulting in them becoming caught up in the truth about the death of Grigori Rasputin. A parallel version of her appears in the novel Blood Heat where she is still part of UNIT fighting against the Silurians in a world where the Doctor died before defeating the reptiles. According to the 1997 Virgin New Adventures novel Eternity Weeps by Jim Mortimore, Liz dies in 2003, the victim of an extraterrestrial terraforming virus contracted while she was part of a UNIT team investigating an alien artefact on the Moon, despite the efforts of the Seventh Doctor and his current companion Chris Cwej to save her.
^ a b Bahn, Christopher (19 June 2011). "Spearhead From Space". The A.V. Club. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
Berriman, Ian (6 May 2011). "Doctor Who: Mannequin Mania — DVD review". SFX. Retrieved 10 October 2012.
Caroline John's daughter Daisy reprises her mother's role as Liz in The Third Doctor Adventures- Volume Five: Primord, where Liz is infected by samples of Stahlman's gas and psychologically corrupted to try and infect all of humanity with the gas, nearly infecting the Doctor until he is able to pass on instructions to the Brigadier and Jo about how they might be able to help him resist the mutation long enough to find a cure. Daisy reprises the role again in Series 9 of The Diary of River Song, where Liz is put out to be relegated to assistant to UNIT's new temporary scientific advisor, River Song- the Doctor's future wife- while the Doctor is otherwise engaged.
McAlpine, Fraser (30 March 2012). "A Companion to the Doctor's Companions: Liz Shaw". BBC America. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
John particularly enjoyed her role as the "totalitarian" version of Liz seen in the alternate universe in Inferno, disliking when she had to change to the normal Liz.[8] Liz has been seen as more of an assistant than a traditional companion because she never travelled on the TARDIS.[4] Unlike other "co-conspirator" companions, Liz serves as a bridge between the Doctor's world and the more grounded UNIT.[9] She has also been described as more mature and equal to the Doctor than previous companions.[4][10] Following John's death in 2012, current Doctor Who showrunner Steven Moffat described Liz as "not just a sidekick but a scientist in her own right" and an example of his sentiment that "the Doctor's companions should never be his assistants – they're the people who keep him on his toes".[7]
Christopher Bahn of The A.V. Club described Liz as a "missed opportunity" because she had such a short time as an assistant and it seemed to him that "the producers didn't really know what to do with a strong, smart female character". Bahn also commented that Liz's "cynicism and skepticismwas a good quality for a scientist, but also a sometimes offputting character tic".[10] In an analysis of Doctor Who and the Silurians for Doctor Who: The Television Companion, David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker were positive towards Liz, who they said was "very good foil, far removed from the naïve young companions of the past".[11]
"What's New With Doctor Who: Prometheus Crossover, Companion Photos, and Goodnight Pond"
^ a b c d e "Caroline John, Doctor Who companion Liz Shaw, dies aged 72". 21 June 2012. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
^ Berriman, Ian (6 May 2011). "Doctor Who: Mannequin Mania — DVD review". SFX. Retrieved 10 October 2012.
^ Braxton, Mark (21 September 2009). "Doctor Who and the Silurians". Radio Times. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
^ Sinnot, John (27 June 2008). "Doctor Who — Beneath the Surface". DVD Talk. Retrieved 14 October 2012.
Radio Times writer Mark Braxton wrote that, despite her short appearance, "Liz established herself thanks to her brilliant mind, a succession of crazy outfits and Caroline John's consummate professionalism as an actress".[4] Braxton also felt that "she was too caring to be cold" and despite not having the "companionly affection" later seen with Jo Grant and Sarah Jane Smith, they had an "innate respect" for each other.[12] Braxton's colleague Patrick Mulkern, while calling John a "gifted actress", criticised the way Liz was "severely styled" in her first appearance.[13] SFX's Ian Berriman also criticised Liz in Spearhead from Space, writing that she was "so snarky she's annoying".[14] Will Salmon of the magazine listed Liz's departure as one of the worst in the series since she just "[vanished] between seasons".[15] DVD Talk's John Sinnott felt that John could come across as "a bit stiff" and did not have much chemistry with Pertwee, most likely due to their personal relationship.[16]
Liz Shaw first appears in the first serial of the seventh season (1970), Spearhead from Space, having been drafted from the University of Cambridge by Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart as a scientific advisor to UNIT. She is a brilliant scientist, an expert on meteorites, with degrees in medicine, physics and a dozen other subjects.[1] Her extensive training, however, is still pale in comparison to the Doctor's own knowledge of the universe and scientific principles far beyond those of Earth. Sceptical at first of UNIT's ambit to defend against alien invasion,[1] Shaw changes her mind when she encounters the newly regenerated Doctor and becomes involved in defeating the plans of the Nestene Consciousness and its animated plastic Autons.
In 2010, readers of Radio Times voted Liz the 27th best companion, out of 48 options.[17] In Ridley Scott's 2012 film Prometheus, Noomi Rapace's character is named Dr. Elizabeth Shaw; Dr. Nicolas Pillai, a lecturer from the University of Warwick's Film and Television Studies department, argues that this is a reference to the Doctor Who character, as Scott used to work for the BBC as a designer.[18][19] However, this is entirely speculation and neither Scott nor the scriptwriters of Prometheus have ever officially stated the name was intentionally used as such.
After appearing in the 25 episodes that made up the four stories of the seventh season, John left the programme because she was pregnant with her first child,[4] and new producer Barry Letts had already decided against renewing her contract.[5] Letts and script editor Terrance Dicks viewed the character as unsuccessful, feeling that she did not fill the companion's role of asking the Doctor for exposition and acting as an audience surrogate.[6] In 1978, John expressed mixed feelings about her role as Liz, saying, "I was excited at first to be a brainy girl, but all the directors wanted really was a sexy piece. It was such an effort looking glamorous on cold clay-pits and rubbish dumps. I enjoyed the series but found it restricting after a while."[4] John continued to appear at fan conventions from the 1990s onwards.[7]
Elizabeth "Liz" Shaw is a fictional character played by Caroline John in the long-running British science fiction television series Doctor Who and its spin-offs.A civilian member of UNIT, an international organisation that defends Earth from alien threats, she was thecompanion of the Third Doctor for the 1970 season. Liz appeared in 4 stories (25 episodes).
Liz continues to work with the Doctor and UNIT through encounters with the Silurians, the so-called Ambassadors of Death and the Inferno project, where the Doctor also encountered Section Leader Elizabeth Shaw, an alternative version of the scientist in a parallel universe. She eventually resigns from UNIT and returns to Cambridge; there was no "farewell scene" on screen for Liz, with her departure simply being announced by the Brigadier at the beginning of Terror of the Autons. She reportedly told the Brigadier that all the Doctor really needed was someone to pass him his test tubes and tell him how brilliant he was.
Pixley, Andrew, "DWM Archive: Inferno", Doctor Who Magazine, #305, 27 June 2001, Panini Comics, p. 41.
"BBC One - Doctor Who, Season 7 - Liz Shaw"
Sinnot, John (27 June 2008). "Doctor Who — Beneath the Surface". DVD Talk. Retrieved 14 October 2012.
"Billie Piper's Rose Tyler voted the best Doctor Who companion"
^ a b "The Last Post Cover Released". Big Finish Productions. 22 August 2012. Retrieved 5 October 2012.
^ Mulkern, Patrick (14 September 2009). "Doctor Who: Spearhead From Space". Radio Times. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
^ Bentley, David (2 June 2012). "Prometheus link to Doctor Who revealed as university academics give verdict on the film and Alien franchise". Coventry Telegraph. Archived from the original on 6 June 2012. Retrieved 10 September 2014.
"Doctor Who actress Caroline John dies aged 71". BBC. 22 June 2012. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"BBC One - Doctor Who, Season 7 - Liz Shaw". BBC.
Salmon, Will (26 September 2012). "10 Best Doctor Who Companion Departures (And 5 Worst)". SFX. Retrieved 7 October 2012.
"Doctor Who The Companion Chronicles: Liz Shaw". Big Finish Productions. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
Jones, Paul (16 November 2010). "Billie Piper's Rose Tyler voted the best Doctor Who companion". Digital Spy. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
"Caroline John, Doctor Who companion Liz Shaw, dies aged 72". 21 June 2012. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
"Prometheus link to Doctor Who revealed as university academics give verdict on the film and Alien franchise"
^ "Doctor Who The Companion Chronicles: Liz Shaw". Big Finish Productions. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
"The Last Post Cover Released". Big Finish Productions. 22 August 2012. Retrieved 5 October 2012.
Braxton, Mark (21 September 2009). "Doctor Who and the Silurians". Radio Times. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
This page was last edited on 1 March 2023, at 23:51 (UTC).
^ McAlpine, Fraser (30 March 2012). "A Companion to the Doctor's Companions: Liz Shaw". BBC America. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
The part of Liz Shaw was given to Caroline John, who was recommended to the outgoing production team of Peter Bryant and Derrick Sherwin by James Cellan Jones. Although John had been working regularly on the stage (including for the National Theatre Company under Laurence Olivier), she was frustrated that she had not gained any TV roles. According to several DVD releases in the Doctor Who series and interviews with the actress herself, John had taken the dramatic step of having herself photographed in a bikini and sent the picture around to BBC producers. The photo ended up on Bryant's desk.
A series of video compilations of Liz Shaw's appearances on Doctor Who and elsewhere
^ Jones, Paul (16 November 2010). "Billie Piper's Rose Tyler voted the best Doctor Who companion". Digital Spy. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
^ Salmon, Will (26 September 2012). "10 Best Doctor Who Companion Departures (And 5 Worst)". SFX. Retrieved 7 October 2012.
Zalben, Alex (12 June 2012). "What's New With Doctor Who: Prometheus Crossover, Companion Photos, and Goodnight Pond". MTV. Archived from the original on 30 June 2012. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
Mulkern, Patrick (14 September 2009). "Doctor Who: Spearhead From Space". Radio Times. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
Liz's life after leaving UNIT is not explored in the series. In the Seventh Doctor serial Battlefield (1989), the Doctor gives Ace a fake ID with the name Elizabeth Shaw. Additionally, in the 2010 The Sarah Jane Adventures story Death of the Doctor Colonel Tia Karim mentions that "Miss Shaw can't get back from Moonbase until Sunday." Caroline John appeared as an illusory image of Liz in the 20th Anniversary television movie The Five Doctors (1983), and as Liz herself in the 1993 charity special Dimensions in Time.
^ Pixley, Andrew, "DWM Archive: Inferno", Doctor Who Magazine, #305, 27 June 2001, Panini Comics, p. 41.
^ Howe, David J. and Stephen James Walker (1998). "The Silurians". BBC. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
Howe, David J. and Stephen James Walker (1998). "The Silurians". BBC. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
^ Zalben, Alex (12 June 2012). "What's New With Doctor Who: Prometheus Crossover, Companion Photos, and Goodnight Pond". MTV. Archived from the original on 30 June 2012. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
Bentley, David (2 June 2012). "Prometheus link to Doctor Who revealed as university academics give verdict on the film and Alien franchise". Coventry Telegraph. Archived from the original on 6 June 2012. Retrieved 10 September 2014.
"Caroline John, Doctor Who companion Liz Shaw, dies aged 72"
Bahn, Christopher (19 June 2011). "Spearhead From Space". The A.V. Club. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"BBC One - Doctor Who, Season 7 - Liz Shaw". BBC.
^ a b "Doctor Who actress Caroline John dies aged 71". BBC. 22 June 2012. Retrieved 9 October 2012.
John also played Liz Shaw in a series of straight-to-video stories produced by BBV under the umbrella title of P.R.O.B.E., in which the character works with a paranormal investigation organisation not unlike UNIT, called the "Preternatural Research Bureau". John later returned as Liz appearing in five Big Finish audio stories narrated by the character: The Blue Tooth (2007), Shadow of the Past (2010), The Sentinels of the New Dawn (2011), Binary (2012),[2] and The Last Post (2012).[3] The latter introduces Rowana Cooper as Liz's mother, Emily, and the planned sequel was not finished due to John's death in June 2012,[3] although Cooper reappears as Emily Shaw in the audio "The Cloisters of Terror" when she assists the Fourth Doctor and Leela in investigating a mystery at her college.
With his freedom restored, the Doctor chose to counteract his extended exile by seeking as much non-human company as possible. During this period, the Doctor encountered all manner of unusual beings – from a species that at cursory glance resembled the Earth tiger (The Year of Intelligent Tigers), to water spirits, to talking apes from another dimension. Though at times the Doctor seemed somewhat cold – as when he seemed more concerned about damaged plums than a dead man (Eater of Wasps) – he retained his passion for life in all forms. Although his amnesia remained a bother, the Doctor acknowledged that whatever had happened to him had happened for a reason, and he might as well make use of the advantages it offered.
Following the events of Ravenous, the next Eighth Doctor saga, Stranded, sees the Doctor, Liv and Helen crash land on Earth in 2020. The Ravenous' attack on the TARDIS has made it inoperable so the trio move into the Doctor's house on Baker Street, which has since been turned into flats and already occupied by several tenants, including Torchwood agent Tania Bell. The trio attempt to adapt to life in 2020 without alien invasion or other threats while the Doctor works on repairing the TARDIS. However, they soon become aware of Divine Intervention, a self-help organisation from the future whose machinations create a divergent timeline that culminates in the destruction of the human race. When the Doctor and his friends restore the timeline, they find themselves back on Earth in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic while waiting for the TARDIS repairs to be complete. On New Year's Day 2021, the Doctor, Liv and Helen set off once again for further adventures.
This page was last edited on 14 March 2023, at 00:21 (UTC).
Despite the fact the Eighth Doctor appeared on television only twice, he is the most prolific of all the Doctors (to date) in terms of number of individual stories published in novel, novella, short story and audio form.[5] In 2007, the Eighth Doctor finally made a second appearance (of sorts) within the television series' continuity. In the episode "Human Nature" he appears on-screen as a sketch (alongside other incarnations) in the book A Journal of Impossible Things by John Smith. In 2008 and 2010 he appeared again as a brief image in "The Next Doctor" and "The Eleventh Hour" along with every other incarnation up to that time. In 2010's "The Lodger", he is shown in a flashback with his first, second, third, fourth, ninth and tenth incarnations. In 2013's "Nightmare in Silver", he is shown in a flashback along with the Doctor's other incarnations; he is also fleetingly seen running past companion Clara Oswald in the following episode, "The Name of the Doctor", though his face is not shown. Later that year, McGann reprised the role for the mini-episode "The Night of the Doctor", a prelude to the show's 50th anniversary special. This appearance marked the Eighth Doctor's final adventure and his regeneration.[6] "The Night of the Doctor" proved popular with fans of the series, some of whom petitioned the BBC to make a spin-off series starring the Eighth Doctor.[7][8][9]
McGann reprised his role as the Eighth Doctor in the final Thirteenth Doctor special "The Power of the Doctor", as one of the “Guardians of the Edge” in an afterlife, inside the Doctor’s mind in the final Thirteenth Doctor special, "The Power of the Doctor."He, along with the First, Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Doctors, help the Thirteenth to undo her forced regeneration by the Master.
By the time of "The Night of the Doctor" he sported a worn and bottle green moleskin overcoat, a ruffled and midnight-blue ascot tie, a bronze grey paisley waistcoat, leather gaiters, and caramel brown US Army Cavalry boots; corresponding with his overall weary appearance, presumably as a result of many experiences during the Time War. This costume has been featured on many Big Finish Productions' audio plays set during the Time War and has also been used as promotional material after the positive reception of "The Night of the Doctor". McGann wears a variation of this costumefor his appearance in "The Power of the Doctor”.
Graeme McMillan (18 November 2013). "Online Petition for New 'Doctor Who' Spin-Off Tops 9,000 Names". Heat-vision. HollywoodReporter.com. Retrieved 3 January 2014.
Although the film failed to spark a new television series, the Eighth Doctor's adventures continued in various licensed spin-off media, notably BBC Books' Eighth Doctor Adventures novels, audio plays from Big Finish Productions, and the Doctor Who Magazine comic strip. These stories spanned the nine years between 1996 and the debut of the new television series in 2005. He is the longest-serving Doctor in the Doctor Who Magazine comic strip. In the wake of the positive reaction to the revived television series in 2005, several of the Eighth Doctor's Big Finish audio dramas were also broadcast on BBC7 radio in an edited form. The trailers for these broadcasts explained that these adventures took place before the destruction of Gallifrey, the Doctor's homeworld, as described in the revived TV series. In 2007, BBC7 aired a new series of Eighth Doctor audio adventures, created specifically for radio broadcast. Paul McGann has continued to portray the Eighth Doctor in the various audio spinoffs.
The character was introduced in the 1996 TV film Doctor Who, a back-door pilot produced in an unsuccessful attempt to relaunch the series following its 1989 cancellation. While the Eighth Doctor initially had only one on-screen appearance, his adventures were portrayed extensively in subsequent spin-off media, including more than 70 audio dramas starring McGann. In 2013, the actor reprised the role in the mini-episode "The Night of the Doctor", which depicts the Eighth Doctor's final adventure and his regeneration into the War Doctor (played by John Hurt). In 2022, he appeared alongside other past incarnations in "The Power of the Doctor", the final adventure of the Thirteenth Doctor (Jodie Whittaker), marking the Eighth Doctor's first-ever appearance in a regular episode of Doctor Who 26 years after McGann first played the role.
Only a few months after resuming his old lifestyle, the Doctor faced another radical change: the loss of his second heart.As it happened, the heart served as a bond with Gallifrey; with the planet gone, the heart had begun to fester within the Doctor's body, pumping it with poison.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Google Groups". groups.google.com.
Eventually, after a woman Sabbath loved sacrificed herself to save the Doctor from a malfunctioning time machine, Sabbath tore out the Doctor's second heart, allowing the Doctor to begin growing a new one.
The Eighth Doctor is an incarnation of the Doctor, the protagonist of the BBC science fiction television series Doctor Who. He is portrayed by Paul McGann.
^ Bridget LaMonica (23 November 2013). "Doctor Who: Petition For Paul McGann Spinoff Passes 15,000 Signatures!". denofgeek.us. Retrieved 3 January 2014.
McGann reprised the role for a webcast mini-episode, "The Night of the Doctor", in 2013, which precedes the 50th anniversary special, "The Day of the Doctor". The episode begins during the raging Time War between Daleks and Time Lords when he is killed when attempting to save a young woman who rejects salvation at the hands of a Time Lord causing them both to die in a spaceship crash. He awakens in the company of the Sisterhood of Karn, who explain that he has died and been temporarily resurrected. They urge him to bring the war to an end, and give him a choice of elixirs to trigger his regeneration. Saluting his various companions from the Big Finish audio range, he drinks an elixir designed to produce a warrior, regenerating into the War Doctor (John Hurt) who declares himself to be the Doctor "no more." In "The Day of the Doctor," the Eighth Doctor joins all of the other incarnations of the Doctor in saving Gallifrey at the end of the Time War. He can briefly be seen on a screen in the War Room, though like the other past incarnations of the Doctor, this is achieved through archive footage.
The Eighth Doctor made his first television appearance in the 1996 Doctor Who television film, the first time the Doctor had returned to television screens since the end of the original series in 1989. Intended as a backdoor pilot for a new television series on the Fox Network, the film drew 5.5% of the US audience, according to Nielsen Ratings.[1] In the United Kingdom, it was received well, attracting over 9 million viewers and generally positive reviews. It was also generally well received in Australia.[2]
"Revamped Doctor Who audio ranges from Big Finish". Big Finish Productions. Archived from the original on 26 May 2020. Retrieved 27 May 2020.
^ Boies, Dominique (30 January 2007). "Doctor Who Reference Guide". Retrieved 8 February 2007.
Some while after this, the Doctor was captured by Marnal, one of the few surviving Gallifreyans, and accused of destroying Gallifrey. Although Gallifrey had been all but wiped from history by the Doctor's actions, Marnal was able to jury-rig a Time Space Visualiser to witness the Doctor actually push the button as he faced off against the Grandfather, although there were about three minutes between the Doctor firing the shot and Gallifrey's actual destruction where the Doctor's activities in the TARDIS were unaccounted for. Reflecting on his discoveries in the TARDIS, the Doctor, along with the aid of K9 (who had been transported into a hidden area of the TARDIS and trapped there following Gallifrey's destruction) realised that his memory loss hadn't been caused by the trauma of destroying Gallifrey; in fact, the Doctor had wiped his memories to give his mind space to store the contents of the Matrix within his brain, compressed down so he wouldn't be driven mad by the voices of all the dead Time Lords within him, his own memories presumably stored somewhere else in his mind, given his occasional flashes from his past. However, right then, the Doctor had more immediate worries; namely, saving Earth from a species of massive fly-like aliens called the Vore, who would soon have the power to devour the planet. As The Gallifrey Chronicles ended, the Doctor, Fitz, and Trix dove into the Vore mountain, the Doctor equipped with a plan to stop the Vore and save the world.
Unsure what "St Louis" was intended by the note, the Doctor created his own in London: the St Louis Bar and Restaurant. As 2001 rolled around, Fitz indeed turned up there to meet him. With the aid of new companion Anji Kapoor, the Doctor and Fitz completed the TARDIS's regeneration, dealt with a race of invading aliens, then set back again to exploring time and space (Escape Velocity).
Boies, Dominique. "Zagreus". Doctor Who Reference Guide. Archived from the original on 29 January 2007. Retrieved 8 February 2007.
Boies, Dominique (30 January 2007). "Doctor Who Reference Guide". Retrieved 8 February 2007.
"DOCTOR WHO – EIGHTH DOCTOR ADVENTURES – RELEASED ITEMS". Big Finish. Retrieved 6 January 2015.
"Online Petition for New 'Doctor Who' Spin-Off Tops 9,000 Names"
Eventually, three years after his departure and one hour after he left, the Doctor returned to the Greenpeace rally. With Sam collected, the pair spent a great period wandering together, facing dozens of adventures. During their travels, Sam and the Doctor became aware of a great war, looming in the future of Gallifrey, between the Time Lords and an as-yet-unidentified Enemy, with dramatic and disturbing consequences. While exploring the issue of the war, the Doctor discovered that his Sam was not the original Samantha Jones; rather, her biodata had been manipulated by an outside agency with the intent to mould her into a prosaic distraction for him (Alien Bodies). Ultimately this plan proved a failure, as Sam developed into a much more strongly-willed companion than intended; at one point she spent three years avoiding the Doctor, so as to cope with a crush she had developed on him, but managed to survive and make a good life for herself in the future until she rejoined the Doctor as she could make more of a difference with him.
Big Finish released a 50th-anniversary story in 2013, The Light at the End, in which the Master (Geoffrey Beevers) implements a plot to trap and destroy all eight incarnations of the Doctor by keeping him on Gallifrey. The Eighth Doctor and Charley meet with the Fourth Doctor (Tom Baker) and Leela (Louise Jameson), the Fifth Doctor (Peter Davison) and Nyssa (Sarah Sutton), the Sixth Doctor (Colin Baker) and Peri, and the Seventh Doctor (Sylvester McCoy) and Ace (Sophie Aldred). Working with the First Doctor (William Russell), the Second Doctor (Frazer Hines), and the Third Doctor (Tim Treloar)), they escape the Master's trap and prevent time from being rewritten so the Doctor would not leave Gallifrey. Companions Susan (Carole Ann Ford), Ian Chesterton (William Russell), Vicki (Maureen O'Brien), Steven Taylor (Peter Purves), Sara Kingdom (Jean Marsh), Polly (Anneke Wills), Jamie McCrimmon (Frazer Hines), Zoe Heriot (Wendy Padbury), Jo Grant (Katy Manning), Tegan Jovanka (Janet Fielding), and Turlough (Mark Strickson) also appeared in the audio drama. In the 2013 live-action mini-episode "The Night of the Doctor", the Eighth Doctor salutes companions Charley, C'rizz, Lucie, Tamsin and Molly before he regenerates into the War Doctor.
A man named Sabbath, an eighteenth-century secret agent gifted with time travel abilities, excised the blackened organ, both saving the Doctor's life and robbing the Doctor of some of his higher Time Lord abilities, including his respiratory bypass system and his ability to metabolise toxins. It transpired that Sabbath was actually after the heart for his own purposes: when implanted into Sabbath's own chest, it imparted upon him those same Time Lord powers, including allowing Sabbath to travel further from Earth in his own time machine than he had previously been capable of. An unexpected side effect of this experiment was that so long as the Doctor's heart remained within Sabbath's chest, the Doctor himself remained practically invulnerable to harm, returning to life after up to a day in a death-like state even after sustaining normally regeneration-inducing injuries such as getting his chest crushed by sandbags (though any injury sustained by the Doctor would weaken Sabbath).
The TV film did not lead to the commissioning of a revived television series, and while Eighth Doctor stories continued in other media, Doctor Who did not air again on television until 2005. After this, footage and stills from the TV film would be used in later episodes "The Next Doctor" (2008), "The Eleventh Hour", "The Lodger" (both 2010) and "Nightmare in Silver" (2013). Edited archive footage in "The Name of the Doctor" very briefly shows the Eighth Doctor sharing an adventure with the Second Doctor (Patrick Troughton).[13]
For two more seasons, the Doctor, Charley, and a new companion named C'rizz explore the divergent universe. They gradually unravel a plot designed around the Doctor by Rassilon, founder of the Time Lord society, who had been trapped in anti-time by the Doctor for his role in the creation of Zagreus. With the aid of his companions the Doctor escapes the trap, overcomes his emotional burden, learns that he has been purged of Zagreus, and returns to his normal universe with Charley and C'rizz (The Next Life).
After this, which coincided with the end of the Big Finish "seasons" in light of the 2005 return of Doctor Who to television, the trio wanders freely. The only continuing plot element involves C'rizz, who exhibits unusual (and potentially destructive) psychological development. This culminates in C'rizz's death (Absolution), which makes Charley want to leave the Doctor's company. Due to amnesia from a healing coma induced by a cyber-planner, the Eighth Doctor believes that Charley has left him in 2008 Singapore (The Girl Who Never Was); she is instead displaced in the year 500,002, from which she is rescued by the Sixth Doctor (The Condemned). Believing that the Eighth Doctor died before they parted, Charley travels with the Sixth Doctor. Their time together ends when the Viyrans, an alien race, replace his memories of Charley with Mila (another woman) to preserve the timeline.
The Eighth Doctor's earliest audio-released adventures were a trilogy, released from October to December 2011, in which the Doctor travels with Mary Shelley (Julie Cox). Mary first appears as a friend of the Eighth Doctor in The Company of Friends, when she meets a future version of the Doctor and helps his past self save his life. The first story, The Silver Turk, features the early Cybermen (as seen in The Tenth Planet). The Witch from the Well tests the pair's relationship; the trilogy concludes with Army of Death, in which Mary decides to leave the Doctor.
After Big Finish brought the monthly range to a close in March 2021, the decision was made to transition all Doctor Who ranges to regular boxset releases.[15] Though The Eighth Doctor Adventures was already releasing as box sets, Big Finish decided to reformat the range further following the conclusion of Stranded, moving away from the four-part sagas and into standalone box sets, bringing it in line with the relaunched ranges of other Doctors. The first official releases under this relaunch were two box sets - What Lies Inside? and Connections - released in November and December 2022 respectively, and continue on from Stranded with Liv and Helen as the Eighth Doctor's companions.
In 2007, Panini Books published Doctor Who: The Flood, the final collection of comic strips featuring the Eighth Doctor in Doctor Who Magazine. The book includes the essay "Flood Barriers" by strip editor Clayton Hickman in which he reveals that Russell T Davies had authorised the comic strip to depict the regeneration of the Eighth Doctor into the Ninth Doctor at the end of the 2004–2005 arc, The Flood. The cause of the regeneration would have been the Doctor's exposure to the Time Vortex in his efforts to destroy the Cybermen (the same cause that triggered the later Ninth to Tenth Doctor regeneration in Parting of the Ways). Destrii would have witnessed the regeneration and would have continued to travel with the Ninth Doctor in a proposed Year One arc. However BBC Wales vetoed the Year One arc and indicated the Ninth Doctor could only be shown travelling with Rose Tyler, Hickman and writer Scott Gray eventually decided not to depict the regeneration as they would have been unable to give Destrii a proper departure. The Panini collection includes the original script for the regeneration sequence, as well as never before published art showing the regeneration itself.[16]
News, Doctor Who. "New Eighth Doctor costume revealed". {{cite web}}: |last= has generic name (help)
Doctor Who: The Flood – The Complete Eighth Doctor Comic Strips Volume 4. London: Panini Books. 2007. pp. 216–223. ISBN 978-1-905239-65-8.
The close dynamic between the pair was shifted with the introduction of Fitz Kreiner, a sixties bar singer incorrectly suspected of matricide. Fitz took on the role of a sort of younger brother to the Doctor, placing the Time Lord on as high a pedestal as Fitz had ever known. Eventually Fitz found himself abducted by Faction Paradox, a "time-travelling voodoo cult", and brainwashed into their legions. When the Doctor realised that a Faction member he had encountered was a biomass copy of Fitz- a 'clone' created and shaped based on others' memories and perceptions of Fitz-, he used the TARDIS's telepathic circuits to restore Fitz's memories and identity to the clone, believing that the original Fitz was dead and reasoning that the clone would essentially be the real Fitz in every way that mattered.
Ethan Lewis (27 November 2013). "Doctor Who: 8 Reasons Paul McGann's Eighth Doctor Deserves a Series". denofgeek.us. Retrieved 3 January 2014.
^ "DOCTOR WHO – EIGHTH DOCTOR ADVENTURES – RELEASED ITEMS". Big Finish. Retrieved 6 January 2015.
^ Graeme McMillan (18 November 2013). "Online Petition for New 'Doctor Who' Spin-Off Tops 9,000 Names". Heat-vision. HollywoodReporter.com. Retrieved 3 January 2014.
The Doctor and Fitz travelled in Compassion for some time, until the machinations of Faction Paradox came to a head back on Gallifrey. As it turned out, in the new timeline triggered by the Doctor's infection, the Doctor was destined to become "Grandfather Paradox", the mythical founder of Faction Paradox. The only factor keeping the original sequence of events in play was the Doctor's TARDIS, which had rebuilt itself after its apparent destruction on Avalon, and had now materialised in a twisted form above Gallifrey, holding within itself the Doctor's original reality where he had regenerated on Metebelis III and never been infected ever since it sensed that something was wrong when the Third Doctor regenerated ahead of schedule.
^ Doctor Who: The Flood – The Complete Eighth Doctor Comic Strips Volume 4. London: Panini Books. 2007. pp. 216–223. ISBN 978-1-905239-65-8.
Almost as soon as he'd left San Francisco, the Doctor had another brief attack of amnesia, caused by a final trap of the Master's. To regain his memories, the Doctor was forced to visit all seven of his past selves and help them out with some crisis or another, at the same time acknowledging the responsibility his role gave him. Having regained his memories, the Doctor met a late twentieth-century Coal Hill School student named Samantha Jones; shortly after their encounter, the Doctor left her alone at a Greenpeace rally.
"Doctor Who: 8 Reasons Paul McGann's Eighth Doctor Deserves a Series"
Bridget LaMonica (23 November 2013). "Doctor Who: Petition For Paul McGann Spinoff Passes 15,000 Signatures!". denofgeek.us. Retrieved 3 January 2014.
The Eighth Doctor: The Time War is another series of four four-part box sets set later in the Eighth Doctor's life, during the early days of the Time War. It describes his efforts to protect those caught in the crossfire with the aid of Bliss, his new companion, whose planet's history was undone when a Time Lord agent turned her planet into a weapons depot; her history is chaotic due to the Time War. In the third volume, the Doctor again faces the Valeyard when his other self is recreated after he is exposed to biology-manipulating technology while using a transmat. The Valeyard erases the Daleks from history by turning their latest weapon against them, but the Dalek Time Strategist escapes into another universe. In the fourth volume, the Strategist recreates the Daleks by manipulating an alternate version of Davros to combine alternate versions of Skaro (manipulating Davros into believing that the Doctor sees all Kaleds as enemies, rather than the Daleks). The Daleks rebuild their forces, but the alternate Davros is put into stasis.
"The Night of the Doctor". Archived from the original on 14 November 2013. Retrieved 14 November 2013.
Discussing "The Night of the Doctor", McGann said, "[Moffat's] instinctive take on the Eighth Doctor was exactly how I'd imagined this character to be, even way back, back in the 90s. You know, this... like a bruised nobility. I know it sounds wanky now, but... he's decent, but he's compromised. He's not a warrior, really, at all. There's a pacifist side to him, but he's a realist as well."[12]
McGann portrays the eighth such incarnation, a passionate, enthusiastic, and eccentric character. His only companion in the television film is Grace Holloway (Daphne Ashbrook), a medical doctor whose surgery is partly responsible for triggering his regeneration. In the continued adventures of the character depicted in audio dramas, novels and comic books he travels alongside numerous other companions, including self-styled "Edwardian Adventuress" Charley, the alien Destrii and present-day humans Lucie and Sam.
The explosion at Event One was averted when the Doctor diverted the black light that would have triggered the explosion to 1898, but instead of reality collapsing into a single controllable timeline, what occurred was reality starting to 'slide' between histories, multiple parallel realities fighting to become the dominant one. Along with new companion Trix, the Doctor, Fitz and Anji travelled through the realities, including a world where the computer was never invented, a world where Earth was devastated by a strange even as all life aged forty years in 1843, and a world where humanity had time-travelling tours, with the Doctor being forced to erase at least two of these realities as he sought to restore the original timeline. During this adventure, the Doctor appeared to become a bit more cold and calculating, sacrificing an innocent man to escape a pocket universe and even leaving alternate versions of Fitz and Anji to die to preserve continuity. However, in the end, their sacrifices paid off, the Doctor managing to stabilise reality by resolving a paradox that had been hanging over them since the beginning of the crisis, and then, with Sabbath's help, they confronted his masters; the Council of Eight, mysterious beings who gained power by foreseeing likely future events and then ensuring that they came to pass. The Doctor, as a rogue element existing outside of Time, was the only unpredictable factor in their universe, and was thus the only person who could stop them. Ironically, it was Sabbath himself who gave the Doctor the edge needed to stop the council; realising that one of the Council members expected Sabbath to shoot the Council member with a weapon designed to send the subject into the Time Vortex, Sabbath instead shot himself, condemning himself to eternal agony in the Time Vortex, but completely undoing the council's plan and destroying their space station, simultaneously restoring the possibility of parallel worlds to the universe.
Data Extract, 121, July/August 1996, and see Doctor Who in Australia.
5.2Audio dramas																								5.2.1Mary Shelley																											5.2.2Saving Charley																											5.2.3Divergent Universe																											5.2.4Lucie Miller																											5.2.5Dark Eyes																											5.2.6Doom Coalition																											5.2.7Ravenous																											5.2.8Stranded																											5.2.9Further Adventures with Liv and Helen																											5.2.10The Time War
The Eighth Doctor debuts in the TV film Doctor Who. While transporting the remains of his longtime nemesis the Master to Gallifrey, the Seventh Doctor (Sylvester McCoy) is caught in the crossfire of a gang shoot-out in 1999 San Francisco's Chinatown, USA. He is taken to a hospital where surgeons, confused by his double heartbeat, attempt to correct a non-existent fibrillation. These efforts instead "kill" the Doctor, and he is taken to a morgue where after several hours—due to the effect of anaesthetic on his alien biology—he finally regenerates into his eighth incarnation (McGann). The Master manages to cheat death, and while the Doctor is on Earth his spirit takes over the body of a paramedic named Bruce (Eric Roberts). The Master (Roberts) then attempts to steal the Doctor's remaining lives by opening the Eye of Harmony inside the Doctor's time machine, the TARDIS, nearly destroying the Earth in the process. However, the Doctor and his companion Dr Grace Holloway (Daphne Ashbrook) are able to prevent the Earth's destruction, and the Master is sucked into the Eye.
The Eighth Doctor initially wore a Wild Bill Hickok costume including a battleship grey cravat tie intended for a New Year's fancy dress party, which he liberated from the lockers at the San Francisco hospital where he regenerated. He completed it with a pair of black leather shoes taken from Grace Holloway's ex-boyfriend Brian to give him the appearance somewhere between a Victorian dandy and wild west gambler.
In November 2012 Big Finish released Dark Eyes, a box set of four audio dramas whose stories take place after To the Death. The set introduced a new companion, Molly O'Sullivan (played by Ruth Bradley), an Irish Voluntary Aid Detachment nursing assistant in World War I. The Eighth Doctor changes his appearance, cutting his hair and changing into a World War I navy peacoat after his Victorian clothing is ruined. After the success of the first Dark Eyes box set, Big Finish released three more sets continuing Molly's story and introducing Liv Chenka as a new companion; Liv had met the Seventh Doctor in the audio drama Robophobia.
In a final confrontation with his future self, the Doctor resolved the timeline conflict by channelling the TARDIS's built-up energies through its weapon systems, thereby destroying both the Faction Paradox fleet and Gallifrey itself. In so doing, the TARDIS was able to rewrite the altered timeline with the original one that it "remembered"; no longer able to contain both timelines as a result of its energy drain, one reality had to become 'real'. As a side effect, however, the Doctor's entire memory was erased, apparently from the trauma of the event (The Ancestor Cell).
To give the Doctor time to recover and the TARDIS time to regenerate from the extensive damage it had suffered, Compassion dropped the Doctor off on Earth in the year 1889; she then delivered Fitz to 2001, with the intent that he wait for the Doctor to catch up to him. With that, Compassion departed for parts unknown. Back in 1889, meanwhile, the Doctor awoke in a railway carriage to discover no memory as to his real identity, and no possessions save a small, shapeless box– what was left of the TARDIS after its power loss— and a note, simply stating "Meet me in St. Louis', 8 February 2001. Fitz".
5Spin-off appearances											Toggle Spin-off appearances subsection																					5.1Novels																								5.1.1Faction Paradox																											5.1.2Amnesia on Earth																											5.1.3Sabbath and parallel times																											5.1.4The Gallifrey Chronicles																														5.2Audio dramas																								5.2.1Mary Shelley																											5.2.2Saving Charley																											5.2.3Divergent Universe																											5.2.4Lucie Miller																											5.2.5Dark Eyes																											5.2.6Doom Coalition																											5.2.7Ravenous																											5.2.8Stranded																											5.2.9Further Adventures with Liv and Helen																											5.2.10The Time War																														5.3Comic strips																								5.3.1Unfinished business																											5.3.2Destrii																														5.4Doctor Who: TITAN Comics - The Eighth Doctor
Eventually, Compassion's implant, linked to the Doctor's TARDIS to prevent her being influenced by random local signals, triggered her unexpected mutation into a sentient Type 102 TARDIS, specifically the "mother" of the TARDISes that would be used in the pending War. With this knowledge, the Time Lords – led by Romana, now in her third incarnation – attempted to capture Compassion, intending to use her as breeding stock in preparation for the war. In response, and in light of the apparent destruction of his old TARDIS in a dimensional rift, the Doctor and Fitz retreated into Compassion and fled, the Doctor refusing to let his people enslave his friend in such a manner and resolving to keep on the run until he could find another way to deal with the issue of the War (The Shadows of Avalon).
Charley dies on the R101 in another story, and the Doctor cannot return her to preserve the timeline. Her existence forms a rough story arc over two seasons of audio adventures as the Doctor discovers a series of minor historical anomalies caused by damage to the timeline, such as the CIA's existence in 1933 or Benjamin Franklin being president. The Doctor eventually learns that, due to Charley's survival, the universe has become infected with "anti-time" leading to a conflict with the wraith-like Never People: individuals who were erased from history for crimes against reality, and now seek to unleash anti-time on the universe. The Doctor sacrifices himself and the TARDIS by absorbing anti-time energy, which seals the rift and preserves Charley's life but transforms him into the bogeyman Zagreus. Later restored to sanity but still infected with anti-time due to the actions of Charley, his old companions Leela and Romana, and recreations of his three previous incarnations, the Doctor again sacrifices himself for Charley and the universe by removing himself from space and time. He enters a divergent universe of which he has no prior knowledge (or frame of reference), and in which there is no linear time (Zagreus). Charley stows away on the TARDIS, negating the Doctor's sacrifice by again placing herself in danger.
Ravenous is a series of four four-part box sets which are a sequel to Doom Coalition, initially exploring the Doctor and Liv's efforts to find Helen after she is trapped with the Eleven. It then narrates their efforts to oppose the Ravenous, an ancient race who are predators of the Time Lords; they evolved to feed on the energy released when Time Lords regenerate. The trio briefly ally with the Eleven against the Ravenous, but he betrays them when he learns that his condition makes him immune to the Ravenous' feeding habits (prompting him to assist the Ravenous in their campaign to turn the universe into their food. The series concludes with the Doctor working with three incarnations of the Master (the Master of the TV film, the War Master and Missy) to restore the Ravenous to their original state.
Working out that the Threshold were using Fey as a spy, the Doctor and his old comrade Shayde faked a regeneration. The Threshold was conned into believing they were facing a vulnerable new Doctor (Shayde in disguise), allowing the real Doctor to infiltrate their base. While he and his friends were too late to stop the Threshold from destroying every single spacecraft in the universe, they were able to bring about the organisation's destruction before it could profit. Fey returned to her time, having also bonded with Shayde to save his life.
3Television appearances											Toggle Television appearances subsection																					3.1TV movie (1996)																											3.2The Night of the Doctor (2013)																											3.3The Power of the Doctor (2022)
5.1Novels																								5.1.1Faction Paradox																											5.1.2Amnesia on Earth																											5.1.3Sabbath and parallel times																											5.1.4The Gallifrey Chronicles
The Doctor went on a relentless search to rescue his friend, with the help of Fey/Shayde and by forcing co-operation from Destrii, still alive in her stolen body. His quest led him to the planet Oblivion, a surreal and brutal world ruled by Destrii's mother, the Matriax. Izzy was rescued and returned to her original form, while Oblivion's court system and the menace of the Horde were both destroyed, leaving Destrii free to leave her world and explore the universe with her roguish uncle Jodafra. However, Izzy had decided she wanted to return home to her family, and the Doctor was left alone.
Paul McGann first returned to his role as the Eighth Doctor in Storm Warning, the first in a series of audio plays. During his time with Big Finish, McGann played the Doctor in a series of adventures and a few more stand-alone stories. McGann played an alternate version of the Eighth Doctor from a timeline in which the Seventh Doctor regenerates after being shot by Nazis in the 1950s (first mentioned in the audio drama Colditz), and appeared in Klein's Story. As "Schmidt", the Doctor teaches Klein how to pilot the TARDIS and puts her in a position to inadvertently help the Seventh Doctor prevent this timeline from occurring (unable to go back himself, since the TARDIS security protocols prevent him from going somewhere he already was).
Unknowingly, the TARDIS had been taken over by the Master, who was manipulating events to gain the power of the omniversal Glory. The Doctor was specifically sent to times and places that would undermine him – discovering he had upset the course of Grace Holloway's life in 2001, encountering an alien race with motivations uncomfortably similar to his which caused death and horror in 17th Century Japan, and almost killing the benevolent Kroton by mistake. (A slight diversion between events saw the Doctor and Izzy team up with the actor Tom Baker and other 1970s television actors against Beep the Meep in 1979.)
^ Cook, Benjamin (May 2014). "Physician, Heal Thyself...". Doctor Who Magazine (472): 19.
^ News, Doctor Who. "New Eighth Doctor costume revealed". {{cite web}}: |last= has generic name (help)
^ "The Night of the Doctor". Archived from the original on 14 November 2013. Retrieved 14 November 2013.
In the Doctor Who: The Eighth Doctor comic series, the Eighth Doctor – from a point shortly before the Time War, as he is shown in the clothing and hairstyle he wore in "The Night of the Doctor" – is visiting an old holiday house of his where he encounters a young painter named Josie Day. Intrigued at her presence, he invites her to accompany him while he checks off items on a 'To Do' list left behind in his last visit to the house. In the course of the storyline, it is revealed that Josie is actually a sentient painting given life by a wealthy woman in the future as part of the woman's plan to grant herself immortality by transferring her mind into Josie, but Josie was rescued by the Twelfth Doctor and taken into the past so that she could travel with the Eighth, the Twelfth Doctor feeling that his past self was better suited to help Josie learn how to be human.
In 2010, Paul McGann revealed a new costume and sonic screwdriver for the Eighth Doctor which he indicated would be the new costume going forward. The cover and promotional photographs for the 2012 Big Finish story, Dark Eyes is, however, the first story to officially feature the new costume. The new outfit was originally premiered in 2010 at the Armageddon Pop Culture Expo, along with a redesigned Sonic Screwdriver, courtesy of Weta Workshop. These changes were independently produced and were not affiliated with Big Finish Productions or the BBC, but were accepted as suitable for official use after the fact.[14]The costume consists of a royal blue leather pea coat, a white T-shirt, navy blue jeans and brown shoes. In this outfit the Doctor also carries a brown messenger bag.
In the Eighth Doctor's first audio adventure, Storm Warning, the Doctor lands on Earth in October 1930 aboard the doomed R101 airship. On the airship the Doctor meets Charley Pollard (India Fisher), a young adventuress. He saves Charley's life, and brings her aboard the TARDIS as his latest companion. The Doctor soon learns that Charley's rescue negatively affects the timestream.
"Doctor Who: Petition For Paul McGann Spinoff Passes 15,000 Signatures!"
List of actors considered for the part of the Doctor
^ Ethan Lewis (27 November 2013). "Doctor Who: 8 Reasons Paul McGann's Eighth Doctor Deserves a Series". denofgeek.us. Retrieved 3 January 2014.
Shortly after the restoration of his heart, the Doctor found himself locked in a desperate struggle with Sabbath as, along with his mysterious business associates, Sabbath hatched a plan to destroy all alternate realities. Sabbath believed that time travellers like the Doctor, every time they landed somewhere, created an alternate reality where they didn't show up, and that the universe was unable to support so many alternates without suffering damage; therefore, he attempted to trigger an explosion at Event One – the Big Bang – that would erase all alternate universes and leaving only one possible timeline. However, Sabbath's allies had been lying to him; in reality, Time would only split if absolutely necessary, and even then, it was nearly impossible to travel between alternate realities. In reality, Sabbath had been manipulated into creating a plan that would effectively wipe out free will itself, with the Doctor proving that Sabbath's perception was wrong when they found themselves in a situation that could only have occurred due to time travel in a single timeline.
Cook, Benjamin (May 2014). "Physician, Heal Thyself...". Doctor Who Magazine (472): 19.
^ Boies, Dominique. "Zagreus". Doctor Who Reference Guide. Archived from the original on 29 January 2007. Retrieved 8 February 2007.
The Eighth Doctor appeared in Doom Coalition, a four-CD, four-part miniseries. He, Liv and new companion Helen Sinclair hunt for the insane Time Lord known as the Eleven, all of whose past personalities are active in his mind at once. The Doctor interacts with River Song, the Eleventh Doctor's future wife (although she avoids interacting with the Eighth Doctor unless she is disguised), and confronts an alliance between the Monk and the Weeping Angels. Doom Coalition concludes with the Doctor thwarting the Doom Coalition, a group of Time Lords led by the Doctor's old schoolfriend Padrac. Padrac's latest consultations with the Matrix led him to the conclusion that the only way to save Gallifrey from prophecies of its destruction is to destroy the rest of the universe. The hunt for the Eleven is intended to manipulate the Doctor into gathering the equipment needed for Padrac's plan to succeed, but the Doctor and his companions disrupt Padrac's machines at the last minute. Big Finish began releasing two Eighth Doctor box sets in 2017: Ravenous and The Eighth Doctor: The Time War.
For a time, the Doctor adventured with an Ice Warrior named Ssard and a human woman named Stacy Townsend, who fell in love with each other; some while after they parted ways with the Doctor, the two invited him to serve as best man at their wedding (Placebo Effect). He also, at some point, teamed up with his old companion Bernice Summerfield, Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart and UNIT to combat an Ice Warrior occupation of Great Britain.
^ Data Extract, 121, July/August 1996, and see Doctor Who in Australia.
4Costumes											Toggle Costumes subsection																					4.1Original TV Movie costume																											4.2Costume during the Time War																											4.3Big Finish costume
^ "Revamped Doctor Who audio ranges from Big Finish". Big Finish Productions. Archived from the original on 26 May 2020. Retrieved 27 May 2020.
Within the series' narrative, the Doctor is a centuries-old alien Time Lord from the planet Gallifrey who travels in time and space in the TARDIS, frequently with companions. At the end of life, the Doctor regenerates; as a result, the physical appearance and personality of the Doctor changes.
During a battle against the body-stealing Ophidians and their gigantic snake-shaped techno-organic warship, the Doctor and Izzy encountered a brash and adventurous fish-woman called Destrii. While seemingly friendly and bonding with Izzy, Destrii was secretly on the run and she swapped bodies with Izzy to cover her escape; when Destrii was seemingly killed, Izzy seemed trapped within an alien body. The Doctor's next few journeys were spent trying to help her in this situation, both in coming to terms with the change and finding out what her new body's abilities were. Frida Kahlo helped Izzy mentally deal with the change, but the attempt at testing Izzy's abilities led her and the Doctor into a turbulent encounter with the humanised Daleks he had created in his second incarnation. Unable to prevent their tragic end – self-destructing to escape the machinations of the malevolent psychic Kata-Phobus -, the two of them were distracted and caught off-guard when Helioth and Hassana, two of the energy-beings called the Horde, abducted Izzy thinking she was Destrii.
In 17th Century Japan, the Doctor's attempt to save the life of samurai Katsura Sato, a friend of Izzy, left the man inadvertently immortal and thus robbed of both an honourable death and any sense of empathy. The Master later came for Sato, when he was mentally vulnerable, and gave him a fake religion to focus his mind on; Earth's history was altered as Sato, renamed Lord Morningstar, and his Church of the Glorious Dead conquered the planet, creating a technological advanced, highly brutal planet of jihadists. The Doctor, Izzy and Kroton wandered into their invasion of the museum planet Paradost; while the Doctor faced the Master over the Glory, Izzy and Kroton spent weeks on the occupied world. The Doctor was defeated, only for the Master discover he was not able to access the Glory, as instead Kroton and Sato had been the ones prophesied to battle for it. Kroton won the Glory, the Master was purged from the TARDIS and history was reverted, and the Doctor and Izzy took a well-earned break.
Feeling slightly morose, the Doctor was cheered up by an unknowing encounter with his old companion Frobisher and went on several 'holiday' adventures on his own. He eventually re-encountered Destrii and Jodafra in America during the 19th Century, where the upcoming clash between General Custer and Chief Sitting Bull was interrupted by Jodafra's machinations involving the monstrous wendigo. Jodafra had made a deal with the creature: power in exchange for being fed children. Unable to stomach this and with the Doctor urging her to listen to the spark of decency in her, Destrii helped the Doctor stop her uncle. In revenge, she was left beaten and abandoned, and the Doctor took her in as a probationary companion. Together, the two of them teamed up with MI6 and faced an invasion of early 21st Century Earth by time-travelling Cybermen; they were preparing to chemically overload the emotions of humans and thus make them willingly surrender to have their emotions removed by conversion. The Doctor destroyed them through use of the Time Vortex (similar to the later "The Parting of the Ways"), almost surrendering to it but giving up its power to save Destrii.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Google Groups". groups.google.com.
Despite his amnesia, the Doctor retained a wide general knowledge. However, he also showed an uncharacteristic callous streak, easily allowing others to die if he felt that they 'deserved' to perish (The Burning). To contrast, he was capable of feeling unusually poignant warmth, even dating a woman in the 1980s, and adopting a young girl named Miranda, a Time Lady from the future (Father Time). During this time, he often became involved in strange problems outside the norm, such as confronting an entity that was essentially sentient fire (The Burning). He experienced a particular funk in the 1950s, feeling that his efforts to learn about his past were pointless, but his interest in life was re-inspired when he was recruited to defeat his old enemies the Players as they sought to escalate the Cold War (Endgame).
^ "The Eighth Doctor". BBC One. Retrieved 6 January 2015.
^ a b Amy and Rory are left by the Doctor in "The God Complex", but appear briefly in "Closing Time" and feature as companions again in "The Wedding of River Song". They appear in the final scene of "The Doctor, the Widow and the Wardrobe", before returning as companions from "Asylum of the Daleks".
Only Adric, Amy, Rory, Clara, and Bill were ongoing, "long-term" companions of the Doctor. All others listed either appeared for the first time and died in the same storyline (Sara, Astrid, Adelaide), or died in their second on-screen appearance in a Doctor Who storyline (Katarina, Kamelion, K-9 Mark III).
Katarina, killed in episode 4 of The Daleks' Master Plan when she opens the airlock of a spaceship after being taken hostage by a convict.
The parallel world from "Turn Left" sees the off-screen deaths of Martha Jones, Sarah Jane Smith, Luke Smith, Maria Jackson, Clyde Langer, Gwen Cooper and Ianto Jones of that world, and the onscreen death of Donna Noble.
"Millie Gibson is the new Doctor Who companion, Ruby Sunday". Doctor Who. 18 November 2022.
As of the end of the sixth series, Sarah Jane Smith is the only classic era companion to have travelled again with the Doctor in the revived series, and one of two to have done so in the revived era. She declined his invitation in "School Reunion", but subsequently met up with the Doctor aboard a Dalek ship in "Journey's End" and travelled with him, several other companions, and Jackie Tyler in the TARDIS as they towed the Earth back to the solar system. Sarah Jane, her predecessor Jo Jones (née Grant), and their own respective companions subsequently momentarily travelled in the TARDIS with the Eleventh Doctor in The Sarah Jane Adventures serial, Death of the Doctor.The Eleventh Doctor attempted to have Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart travel with him again only to learn of the Brigadier's death months earlier.
Tamsin departs the Doctor in The Resurrection of Mars to join the Monk. She later appears alongside the Monk in Lucie Miller / To the Death.
Adam Mitchell is killed by an explosion in the comic storyline Prisoners of Time, sacrificing himself to thwart the Master's attempt to destroy reality and saving all eleven Doctors and their gathered companions.
^ Abby (then called Amy) originally travels with the Doctor from The Judgement of Isskar to The Chaos Pool, then reunites with the Doctor in the boxset Wicked Sisters.
Sarah Jane Smith has appeared in "School Reunion", "The Stolen Earth", "Journey's End", and "The End of Time". K-9 has appeared in "School Reunion" and "Journey's End".
^ Campbell, Mark; Duncan, Paul (April 2014). The Pocket Essential Doctor Who. Pocket Essentials. pp. 20–21. ISBN 978-1-903047-19-4.
^ Rose departs in "Doomsday", and makes brief cameo appearances in "Partners in Crime", "The Poison Sky" and "Midnight" before returning as a companion from "Turn Left" to "Journey's End". She briefly appears in "The End of Time", and in "The Day of the Doctor" as the interface of the Moment device selects an image of Rose to assist the War Doctor.
Adam Sherwin (5 July 2006). "Sidekick whose time has come". The Times. UK. Retrieved 18 June 2022.
^ Olsen, Anton (21 July 2009). "Who's Your Favorite Doctor Who Companion?". Wired. Retrieved 18 June 2022.
Mickey departs in "The Age of Steel" and re-appears in "Army of Ghosts" / "Doomsday" before returning as a companion in "Journey's End". He also appears in "The End of Time".
^ Gareth Roberts (24 September 2011). "Open All Hours". Doctor Who Confidential. Series 6. Episode 12.4:52 minutes in. BBC. The Doctor allows Craig to come along and play the part of his companion [...]
Lucie departs the Doctor in Death in Blackpool before re-appearing as the Monk's companion in The Book of Kells and The Resurrection of Mars. She later appears alongside the Doctor in Relative Dimensions, Prisoner of the Sun, and Lucie Miller / To the Death.
^ Sarah continues to travel with the Doctor following his regeneration in Planet of the Spiders, and after her later departure from the series serves as the Third Doctor's companion once more in The Five Doctors.
Clara continues traveling with the Doctor following his regeneration in "The Time of the Doctor".
Kamelion, an android companion, is destroyed by the Fifth Doctor in Episode 4 of Planet of Fire as an act of mercy after Kamelion is taken over by the Master and asks the Doctor to destroy him.
Adelaide Brooke kills herself in "The Waters of Mars" to preserve a fixed point in time.
Raine travels with the Doctor and Ace and departs off-screen after Earth Aid. She returns as a companion without Ace in UNIT: Dominion.
Ace is killed by an explosion in the comic storyline Ground Zero while still a companion of the Seventh Doctor. This is also contradicted by the Sarah Jane Adventures storyline "Death of the Doctor" that indicates she is still alive in 2010, no longer travelling with the Doctor, and running a charity called ACE.
Rory is also killed by the Silurian Restac at the conclusion of "Cold Blood", sacrificing himself to protect the Doctor. He is subsequently consumed by a crack in time, which wipes him from existence. He reappears in "The Pandorica Opens" as an Auton duplicate, created from Amy Pond's memories, and is restored to his old life along with the rest of the universe in "The Big Bang".
^ a b c Also makes a cameo appearance in "The Power of the Doctor"
Majenta initially appears in Hotel Historia before joining the Doctor as a companion in Thinktwice.
Benton appears alongside the Second Doctor in The Invasion as Corporal Benton.
^ Romana leaves the Doctor in Warriors' Gate, and subsequently reappears as the Fourth Doctor's companion in The Five Doctors (in footage from Shada).
Polly and Ben continue travelling with the Doctor following his regeneration in The Tenth Planet.
^ Darren Plant portrayed John Benton as a baby in The Time Monster, and Steven Stanley did so as a child in the direct-to-video release, Wartime.
"Millie Gibson is the new Doctor Who companion, Ruby Sunday"
"Doctor Who – Mickey Smith – Character Guide". BBC. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ a b c Brook, Stephen (23 January 2009). "Michelle Ryan guest stars in Doctor Who. But would she make a good companion?". The Guardian. UK. Retrieved 1 June 2010. A minor factor in the continual swirl around Doctor Who is that what constitutes a Doctor Who companion is no longer clear. Sure, Rose, Martha, and Donna were all companions. So was Captain Jack. But what about Mickey and Jackie? How do you qualify? Name in the opening credits, regular trips in the Tardis? The Doctor kisses you? I'm no longer sure. Modern TV drama is so difficult.
^ "Lindsay Duncan to star in second Doctor Who Special of 2009". BBC. 19 February 2009. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
Bacon, Thomas (14 September 2022). "Jodie Whittaker's Final Doctor Who Episode Title Revealed". Screen Rant. Retrieved 14 September 2022.
In the classic era, companions' friends and families were rarely depicted, and almost all were kept unaware of the true nature of the Doctor and the TARDIS. Exceptions include the very brief portrayals of Susan's future husband David Campbell;[15] Dodo Chaplet's ancestor Anne Chaplet;[16] Victoria Waterfield's father Edward;[17] Jo Grant's future husband Prof. Clifford Jones;[18] the companions' various co-workers at UNIT; Leela's father Sole[19] and future husband or lover Andred;[20] Tegan Jovanka's aunt Vanessa,[21] maternal grandfather Andrew Verney,[22] and cousin Colin Frazer;[23] Nyssa's father Tremas and step-mother Kassia;[24] Vislor Turlough's former maths teacher Lethbridge-Stewart;[25] Peri Brown's step-father Prof. Howard Foster,[26] and future husband King Yrcanos;[27] Ace McShane's ex-lover Sabalom Glitz,[28] maternal grandmother Kathleen Dudman,[29] infant mother Audrey Dudman,[30] and a photograph of her maternal grandfather Frank Dudman;[30] and Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart's second wife Doris.[31] Classic era spin-off media additionally introduced Sarah Jane Smith's aunt Lavinia Smith (who had been an unseen character in the original series) and foster brother Brendan Richards,[32] and Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart's daughter Kate (who would later become a recurring guest in the revived series)[33] and grandson Gordon.[34]
Kilbane, Aoife (23 October 2022). "Doctor Who: Here they come..." BBC Media Centre. Retrieved 23 October 2022.
Carole Ann Ford, who played Susan Foreman, became unhappy with the lack of development for her character[2] and chose to leave in its second series. The character of Susan was married off to a freedom fighter and left behind to rebuild a Dalek-ravaged Earth. Doctor Who's producers replaced Susan with another young female character, Vicki. Similarly, when Ian and Barbara left, the "action hero" position was filled by astronaut Steven Taylor. This grouping of the Doctor, a young heroic male, and an attractive young female became the programme's pattern throughout the 1960s.
First appears in The Web of Fear (as Colonel) and The Invasion alongside the Second Doctor, before appearing as a semi-regular character throughout the Third Doctor's era. He further appears in Robot and Terror of the Zygons alongside the Fourth Doctor, and Mawdryn Undead alongside the Fifth Doctor before serving as the Second Doctor's companion in The Five Doctors. He subsequently appears in The Sarah Jane Adventures story Enemy of the Bane.
Also makes a cameo appearance in The Caves of Androzani
Jack rejoins the Doctor in "Utopia" before departing in "Last of the Time Lords", but returns again for "The Stolen Earth" / "Journey's End". He also appears in "The End of Time".
Richards, Justin; Martin, Andrew (1997). Doctor Who The Book of Lists. BBC Books. pp. 13 and 218. ISBN 0-563-40569-4.
^ Haining, Peter (1983). Doctor Who: A Celebration – Two Decades Through Time And Space. Virgin Publishing Ltd. p. 85. ISBN 0-86369-932-4.
^ Sophie Downham appears as young Clara in the prequel to "The Bells of Saint John", "The Rings of Akhaten" and "The Name of the Doctor".
Bernice departs the Seventh Doctor in Happy Endings, but later appears in Return of the Living Dad, So Vile a Sin, and Eternity Weeps. She rejoins the Seventh Doctor and Ace in the Big Finish Productions audio series The New Adventures of Bernice Summerfield.
"BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Vislor Turlough".
Frobisher departs the Sixth Doctor off-screen after The World Shapers, but they reunite in the graphic novel The Age of Chaos and the Big Finish Productions audio plays The Holy Terror and The Maltese Penguin.
Robinson, Nigel; Nathan-Turner, John (1981). The Doctor Who Quiz Book. Target Books. pp. 39 and 98. ISBN 0-426-20143-4.
Subsequently appears with the Fourth Doctor in Robot, Terror of the Zygons and The Android Invasion as WO2 Benton
^ Bernice departs the Seventh Doctor in Happy Endings, but later appears in Return of the Living Dad, So Vile a Sin, and Eternity Weeps. She rejoins the Seventh Doctor and Ace in the Big Finish Productions audio series The New Adventures of Bernice Summerfield.
Other companions died in alternate timelines or alternate lives. Brigade Leader Alistair Lethbridge-Stewart, Section Leader Liz Shaw, and Platoon LeaderJohn Benton all died in the destruction of their universe's Earth.[97] Sarah Jane Smith, her son Luke Smith, Maria Jackson and Clyde Langer perished while trying to stop the Plasmavore and the Judoon in Royal Hope Hospital on the Moon in the parallel universe of "Turn Left". In the same story, Martha Jones suffocated after giving up her oxygen to classmate/co-worker Oliver Morgenstern while on the Moon. Teenaged Sarah Jane Smith also died after falling from a pier in place of her friend, Andrea Yates; Maria Jackson convinces the adult Yates to correct the timeline, restoring Sarah Jane to life.[98] After surviving decades in an alien hospice that is deadly to humans, Amy Pond compels Rory Williams to lock her out of the TARDIS in order to protect her younger self and allow the latter to have the life with Rory that the former missed.[99] Amy and Rory jointly jumped off of a high-rise in New York on a hunch that doing so would create a paradox and deliver themselves from that timeline.[94]
^ Jack rejoins the Doctor in "Utopia" before departing in "Last of the Time Lords", but returns again for "The Stolen Earth" / "Journey's End". He also appears in "The End of Time".
^ Evelyn's departure from the Sixth Doctor is depicted in flashbacks of Thicker than Water, where she reunites with the Sixth Doctor and new companion Mel. She appears again with the Seventh Doctor in A Death in the Family.
Bill Potts is killed by a technician on a Mondasian colony ship in "World Enough and Time". Bill is then taken to the bottom deck of the ship by half-converted Cybermen and is given a life support implant in her chest. She is later converted to a Cyberman by The Master. In "The Doctor Falls", Bill fights the Cyber-programming and retains herself and her personality in order to help cope with the trauma of the conversion process. She ends up assisting the Doctor with destroying all of the Cybermen including herself and is turned into a Sentient Oil Creature by Heather. The two start traveling the universe together. Bill's memories were kept intact by The Testimony Foundation "Twice Upon a Time".
"Noel natters to DWM". BBC. 21 February 2006. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
8Deaths of companions											Toggle Deaths of companions subsection																					8.1List of companion deaths																											8.2Mitigated																											8.3Parallel world																											8.4Spin-off media
Jamie McCrimmon dies an elderly man in comic storyline The World Shapers.
Foster, Chuck (1 January 2021). "New companion for Series 13". DoctorWhoNews.net. Retrieved 2 January 2021.
Subsequently appears in Robot, Terror of the Zygons, Mawdryn Undead and Battlefield, and as the Second Doctor's companion in The Five Doctors
K McEwan, Cameron (26 May 2016). "Steven Moffat reveals Pearl Mackie to debut in 2017, her name and when's she's from..." Doctor Who. Retrieved 26 May 2016.
The "Mark I" incarnation of K-9, who leaves the Doctor in The Invasion of Time, returns in the independent spin-off series K-9, regenerating into a newer form. A further model of K-9, "Mark III", features in the pilot of K-9 and Company with Sarah Jane Smith, and Doctor Who episode "School Reunion" with the Tenth Doctor and Sarah Jane. Killed and replaced by K-9 Mark IV in the latter episode, he subsequently appears irregularly in The Sarah Jane Adventures, and also the Doctor Who episode "Journey's End".
^ a b c d e Also makes a cameo appearance in The Caves of Androzani
Coleman first appeared as Oswin Oswald in "Asylum of the Daleks", revealed in "The Name of the Doctor" to be one of multiple echoes of Clara distributed across time. In "The Snowmen", Coleman initially plays another echo of Clara, with her original iteration appearing briefly at the end of the episode. The latter Clara joins the Doctor permanently in "The Bells of Saint John".
^ Sarah Jane Smith has appeared in "School Reunion", "The Stolen Earth", "Journey's End", and "The End of Time". K-9 has appeared in "School Reunion" and "Journey's End".
^ Rory is killed in "Cold Blood", but returns in "The Pandorica Opens" as an Auton duplicate before being restored to humanity and resuming his travels with the Doctor and Amy in "The Big Bang".
^ Nathan-Turner, John (1986). Doctor Who — The Companions. New York: Random House. pp. 18–21. ISBN 978-0-394-88291-8.
^ Davies, Russell T (7 April 2009). "Dr Who's Easter special". BBC News. Retrieved 7 April 2009.
^ Expressed in "The Witch's Familiar", "Before the Flood", "The Girl Who Died", "The Woman Who Lived", and "The Zygon Inversion"
^ The direct-to-video spin-off film, Wartime, produced during the interim between the classic and revived eras, showed Benton as a boy during flashback scenes.
^ Nardole departs in "The Doctor Falls" before briefly reappearing in "Twice Upon a Time".
Raine makes an earlier appearance in Thin Ice as a baby.
^ "Millie Gibson is the new Doctor Who companion, Ruby Sunday". Doctor Who. 18 November 2022.
Rory is killed in "Cold Blood", but returns in "The Pandorica Opens" as an Auton duplicate before being restored to humanity and resuming his travels with the Doctor and Amy in "The Big Bang".
The direct-to-video spin-off film, Wartime, produced during the interim between the classic and revived eras, showed Benton as a boy during flashback scenes.
Expressed in "The Witch's Familiar", "Before the Flood", "The Girl Who Died", "The Woman Who Lived", and "The Zygon Inversion"
"BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Adric".
Mickey is introduced in "Rose" as Rose's boyfriend and recurs regularly before becoming a companion.
David J. Howe, Mark Stammers (1995). Doctor Who: Companions. Virgin Publishing. ISBN 1852275820.
"BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Nyssa"
^ After his departure in Bad Wolfie, Wolfgang makes a guest appearance in Lucky Heather.
Jamie is played by Hamish Wilson in parts of The Mind Robber episodes 2 and 3, while Frazer Hines was suffering from chickenpox.
^ Subsequently appears in Robot, Terror of the Zygons, Mawdryn Undead and Battlefield, and as the Second Doctor's companion in The Five Doctors
^ River refuses the Doctor's offer to travel with him permanently in "Day of the Moon". She subsequently features as a companion in "A Good Man Goes to War", "Let's Kill Hitler" and "The Wedding of River Song", and also appears in "Closing Time". She later appears in "The Angels Take Manhattan" and "The Name of the Doctor".
^ "Confidential at Christmas". Doctor Who Confidential. Season 4. Episode 1. 25 December 2007.
The character of Harry Sullivan was created by the production team when it was expected that the Fourth Doctor would be played by an older actor who would have trouble with the activity expressed by his predecessor. The role went to 40-year-old Tom Baker, and the part of Harry, no longer required for the action role, was dropped after one season.[3]
^ Klein first meets the Doctor and Ace in Colditz and later joins him as a companion in A Thousand Tiny Wings.
Most companions travel in the TARDIS with the Doctor for more than one adventure. Sometimes a guest character takes a role in the story similar to that of a companion, such as photographer Isobel Watkins, who plays a significant role in The Invasion (1968), or Lynda in "Bad Wolf" and "The Parting of the Ways" (2005). In the revived era, some guest characters have gained companion status such as Mickey Smith, River Song, Wilfred Mott, and Craig Owens.
^ "Doctor Who — Classic Series — Companions — Kamelion". BBC. Retrieved 12 November 2012.
^ Rose continues travelling with the Doctor following his regeneration in "The Parting of the Ways".
"BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Tegan Jovanka"
Jack Harkness is killed by Daleks but is brought back to life and given immortality by Rose Tyler in "The Parting of the Ways".He has since died numerous times in both Doctor Who and Torchwood, always returning to life soon afterwards. In "Last of the Time Lords" it is implied that Harkness becomes the Face of Boe, who dies peacefully in "Gridlock" after living for billions of years.
^ a b c d e f Mentioned in The Night of the Doctor.
"Lindsay Duncan to star in second Doctor Who Special of 2009". BBC. 19 February 2009. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
Bill Potts is shot and killed by the colony ship's last crewmember in order to halt the advance of the Cybermen in "World Enough and Time" However, she is converted into an original Mondasian Cyberman, and during "The Doctor Falls", Bill is restored to her human form and transformed into a water-like creature by her former love interest Heather, promising to wander the universe with her, an offer she willingly accepts.
^ Cornell, Paul; Day, M.; Topping, K.; Howe, D. J.; Walker, S. J. (1995). "The Daleks' Master Plan". Doctor Who: Classic Series Episode Guide. BBC. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
Susan travelled with the Doctor prior to the events of An Unearthly Child.
^ Kilbane, Aoife (23 October 2022). "Doctor Who: Here they come..." BBC Media Centre. Retrieved 23 October 2022.
^ a b Polly and Ben continue travelling with the Doctor following his regeneration in The Tenth Planet.
^ Molly departs the Doctor in Rule of the Eminence. An older version of Molly played by Sorcha Cusack re-appears in Master of the Daleks and Eye of Darkness.
"Series 10: Nardole is a Full-Time "Non-Human" Companion". 15 December 2016.
Cook, Benjamin (9 January 2008). "Sands of time". Radio Times. No. 11–17 April 2009. pp. 16–20.
^ "BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Vislor Turlough".
Sophie Downham appears as young Clara in the prequel to "The Bells of Saint John", "The Rings of Akhaten" and "The Name of the Doctor".
"BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Vislor Turlough"
An older version of Amy Pond is killed by a handbot in "The Girl Who Waited" as it gives her medicine it doesn't know will kill her, but her existence is erased when the Doctor and Rory are able to convince her to help them rescue the younger Amy, allowing them to erase the timeline where the older Amy existed.
"The Eleventh Hour", "The Big Bang", "Let's Kill Hitler", "The God Complex", "The Angels Take Manhattan"
Liv initially appears in Robophobia alongside the Seventh Doctor before joining the Eighth Doctor as a companion in The Traitor.
After his departure in Bad Wolfie, Wolfgang makes a guest appearance in Lucky Heather.
An illusionary Amy appears to the Doctor before his regeneration in "The Time of the Doctor".
^ Jamie is played by Hamish Wilson in parts of The Mind Robber episodes 2 and 3, while Frazer Hines was suffering from chickenpox.
^ Sally departs in Afterlife and later appears in Signs and Wonders.
Walker, Stephen James (17 December 2008). "Series Overview". Monsters Within: the Unofficial and Unauthorised Guide to Doctor Who 2008. Tolworth, Surrey, England: Telos Publishing. p. 232. ISBN 978-1-84583-027-4.
"Press Office – Doctor Who press pack phase six Episode Seven". BBC. 4 May 2005. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ River first appears alongside the Tenth Doctor in "Silence in the Library" / "Forest of the Dead", introduced as a companion from his relative future who calls the Doctor to her aid. Progressively younger versions of River subsequently summon the Eleventh Doctor in "The Time of Angels" / "Flesh and Stone" and "The Pandorica Opens" / "The Big Bang", before the future Doctor summons her to his death in "The Impossible Astronaut".
^ K McEwan, Cameron (26 May 2016). "Steven Moffat reveals Pearl Mackie to debut in 2017, her name and when's she's from..." Doctor Who. Retrieved 26 May 2016.
River first appears alongside the Tenth Doctor in "Silence in the Library" / "Forest of the Dead", introduced as a companion from his relative future who calls the Doctor to her aid. Progressively younger versions of River subsequently summon the Eleventh Doctor in "The Time of Angels" / "Flesh and Stone" and "The Pandorica Opens" / "The Big Bang", before the future Doctor summons her to his death in "The Impossible Astronaut".
"Who Should Be So Lucky?". 19 December 2007. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ Clara dies in "Face the Raven" and appears only as an illusion in "Heaven Sent", before being temporarily rescued from death and appearing as a companion for the final time in "Hell Bent". She subsequently briefly appears in "Twice Upon a Time".
Rose continues travelling with the Doctor following his regeneration in "The Parting of the Ways".
Sarah Jane Smith dies as a teenager in an alternate timeline in Whatever Happened to Sarah Jane?.
6List of companions on television											Toggle List of companions on television subsection																					6.1First Doctor																											6.2Second Doctor																											6.3Third Doctor																								6.3.1UNIT																														6.4Fourth Doctor																											6.5Fifth Doctor																											6.6Sixth Doctor																											6.7Seventh Doctor																											6.8Eighth Doctor																											6.9Ninth Doctor																											6.10Tenth Doctor																											6.11Eleventh Doctor																											6.12Twelfth Doctor																											6.13Thirteenth Doctor																											6.14Fourteenth Doctor																											6.15Fifteenth Doctor
Sally departs in Afterlife and later appears in Signs and Wonders.
In "The Angels Take Manhattan", Rory Williams and Amy Pond are displaced in time by a Weeping Angel; Amy allows the Angel to send her back so she can be with Rory.A gravestone reveals they died, Amy at the age of 87 and Rory age 82.
"BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Adric"
In the long-running BBC television science fiction programme Doctor Who and related works, the term "companion" refers to a character who travels or shares adventures with the Doctor. In most Doctor Who stories, the primary companion acts as an audience surrogate. They provide the lens through which the viewer is introduced to the series. The companion character often furthers the story by asking questions (often to help the audience understand too) and getting into trouble, or by helping, rescuing, or challenging the Doctor. This designation is applied to a character by the show's producers and appears in the BBC's promotional material and off-screen fictional terminology. The Doctor also refers to the show's other leads as their “friends" or "assistants"; the British press have also used the latter term.
^ "Ten 'Waters of Mars' teasers". Digital Spy. 30 October 2009. Retrieved 18 June 2022.
This page was last edited on 27 February 2023, at 06:29 (UTC).
^ The Temptation of Sarah Jane Smith, Whatever Happened to Sarah Jane?
^ "BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Tegan Jovanka".
When Doctor Who returned to television in 2005, the companion characters played a slightly different role, partly due to a strong focus on the character of Rose Tyler and characters connected to her. For example, although Adam Mitchell was a companion by the standard definition, he appeared in only two episodes and was arguably a less significant part of the 2005 series than Rose's sometime boyfriend Mickey Smith, who was not technically a companion but appeared in five episodes (or six, including a brief appearance as a child in "Father's Day"). Mickey later gained full-fledged companion status when he travelled in the TARDIS in the 2006 episode "School Reunion". In that episode, Sarah Jane Smith referred to Rose as the Doctor's "assistant", a term to which the latter took offence. This exchange might be regarded as indicating the new series' shift in approach to the companion role. Adam was also far less significant than Rose's mother, Jackie Tyler, who was a frequently recurring character who travelled in the TARDIS, yet is not considered a companion.
Statement by Mickey Smith to Martha Smith-Jones in "The End of Time"
"Michelle Ryan guest stars in Doctor Who. But would she make a good companion?"
"Press Office – Doctor Who press pack phase six Episode Seven"
"BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Tegan Jovanka".
^ Raine makes an earlier appearance in Thin Ice as a baby.
7List of companions from other media											Toggle List of companions from other media subsection																					7.1First Doctor																											7.2Second Doctor																											7.3Third Doctor																											7.4Fourth Doctor																											7.5Fifth Doctor																											7.6Sixth Doctor																											7.7Seventh Doctor																											7.8Eighth Doctor																											7.9War Doctor																											7.10Ninth Doctor																											7.11Tenth Doctor
Anji departs the Doctor in Timeless and later makes a cameo appearance in The Gallifrey Chronicles.
Sarah continues to travel with the Doctor following his regeneration in Planet of the Spiders, and after her later departure from the series serves as the Third Doctor's companion once more in The Five Doctors.
^ Bacon, Thomas (14 September 2022). "Jodie Whittaker's Final Doctor Who Episode Title Revealed". Screen Rant. Retrieved 14 September 2022.
Also makes a cameo appearance in "The Power of the Doctor"
Cindy appears in a number of issues as a friend of Gabby's starting from Revolutions of Terror until she finally joins as a companion in Arena of Fear.
BBC – Doctor Who Classic Episode Guide – Doctor Who: The TV Movie – Details, retrieved 21 April 2013
Cornell, Paul; Day, M.; Topping, K.; Howe, D. J.; Walker, S. J. (1995). "The Daleks' Master Plan". Doctor Who: Classic Series Episode Guide. BBC. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
Earlier incarnations of River Song (as Melody Pond) are played by Sydney Wade in "The Impossible Astronaut" / "Day of the Moon", and Maya Glace-Green and Nina Toussaint-White in "Let's Kill Hitler".
"Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Kamelion". BBC.
A number of TV companions have died in spin off media. Several spin-off-exclusive characters have also died but this list is only concerned with TV companions:
^ Subsequently appears with the Fourth Doctor in Robot, Terror of the Zygons and The Android Invasion as WO2 Benton
Bernice meets the Eighth Doctor again in the Big Finish Productions audio plays The Company of Friends and Lies in Ruins.
"Doctor Who — Classic Series — Companions — Kamelion". BBC. Retrieved 12 November 2012.
^ Pixley, Andrew (16 December 1998). "Doctor Who Magazine". Doctor Who Magazine (272): 21.
Davies, Russell T (7 April 2009). "Dr Who's Easter special". BBC News. Retrieved 7 April 2009.
^ Anji departs the Doctor in Timeless and later makes a cameo appearance in The Gallifrey Chronicles.
^ "BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Adric".
^ "Noel natters to DWM". BBC. 21 February 2006. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
Others are implied or stated to have died years after parting company with the Doctor.
Evelyn's departure from the Sixth Doctor is depicted in flashbacks of Thicker than Water, where she reunites with the Sixth Doctor and new companion Mel. She appears again with the Seventh Doctor in A Death in the Family.
^ "BBC Doctor Who Series 4 Characters". Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ a b c Adric, Nyssa and Tegan continue travelling with the Doctor following his regeneration in Logopolis.
^ Earlier incarnations of River Song (as Melody Pond) are played by Sydney Wade in "The Impossible Astronaut" / "Day of the Moon", and Maya Glace-Green and Nina Toussaint-White in "Let's Kill Hitler".
^ Flip first meets the Doctor in The Crimes of Thomas Brewster and later joins him as a companion from The Curse of Davros to Scavenger. She re-joins the Doctor and new companion Constance in Quicksilver.
"Confidential at Christmas". Doctor Who Confidential. Season 4. Episode 1. 25 December 2007.
^ Susan travelled with the Doctor prior to the events of An Unearthly Child.
Compassion departs the Doctor in The Ancestor Cell, but later makes appearances in Escape Velocity and The Gallifrey Chronicles.
Molly departs the Doctor in Rule of the Eminence. An older version of Molly played by Sorcha Cusack re-appears in Master of the Daleks and Eye of Darkness.
^ Jamie returns to his own time in The War Games, but later appears in the Sixth Doctor-era story The Two Doctors, again as the Second Doctor's companion.
^ Frobisher departs the Sixth Doctor off-screen after The World Shapers, but they reunite in the graphic novel The Age of Chaos and the Big Finish Productions audio plays The Holy Terror and The Maltese Penguin.
Haining, Peter (1983). Doctor Who: A Celebration – Two Decades Through Time And Space. Virgin Publishing Ltd. p. 85. ISBN 0-86369-932-4.
Olsen, Anton (21 July 2009). "Who's Your Favorite Doctor Who Companion?". Wired. Retrieved 18 June 2022.
^ "A Good Man Goes to War", "The Impossible Astronaut", "Day of the Moon", "Let's Kill Hitler"
^ Raine travels with the Doctor and Ace and departs off-screen after Earth Aid. She returns as a companion without Ace in UNIT: Dominion.
Klein travels with the Doctor from A Thousand Tiny Wings to The Architects of History. A version of Klein from an alternative timeline meets the Doctor in UNIT: Dominion, travels with him from Persuasion to Daleks Among Us, and encounters him again in Warlock's Cross.
Nathan-Turner, John (1986). Doctor Who — The Companions. New York: Random House. pp. 18–21. ISBN 978-0-394-88291-8.
Due to problems with the robotic prop, Kamelion was not featured in the five serials between his first and last stories. Planned scenes in The Awakening were cut and never broadcast.
Lethbridge-Stewart appears alongside the Second Doctor as a colonel in The Web of Fear and subsequently as a brigadier in The Invasion.
^ The series never establishes how Mel meets the Doctor, who first appears as part of the Doctor's future. Their first meeting is recounted in the Past Doctor Adventures novel Business Unusual and the Big Finish Productions audio-drama The Wrong Doctors.
^ Due to problems with the robotic prop, Kamelion was not featured in the five serials between his first and last stories. Planned scenes in The Awakening were cut and never broadcast.
Adric dies at the end of Episode 4 of Earthshock, while trying to prevent the explosion of a bomb-laden space freighter in Earth's atmosphere.
^ Doctor Who: Best of the Companions (Television production). BBC America. 28 August 2011.
^ Susan leaves the Doctor in The Dalek Invasion of Earth, later appearing in The Five Doctors as companion to the First Doctor (then played by Richard Hurndall).
^ "Doctor Who – Sarah Jane Smith – Character Guide". BBC. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ Statement by Sarah Jane Smith to Luke Smith in the epilogue scene of Death of the Doctor part 2
^ "Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Kamelion". BBC.
^ Walker, Stephen James (17 December 2008). "Series Overview". Monsters Within: the Unofficial and Unauthorised Guide to Doctor Who 2008. Tolworth, Surrey, England: Telos Publishing. p. 232. ISBN 978-1-84583-027-4.
Nardole departs in "The Doctor Falls" before briefly reappearing in "Twice Upon a Time".
A younger Rory is played by Ezekiel Wigglesworth in "Let's Kill Hitler".
^ Previously appears with the Tenth Doctor in "School Reunion".
^ Adam Sherwin (5 July 2006). "Sidekick whose time has come". The Times. UK. Retrieved 18 June 2022.
^ First appears in The Web of Fear (as Colonel) and The Invasion alongside the Second Doctor, before appearing as a semi-regular character throughout the Third Doctor's era. He further appears in Robot and Terror of the Zygons alongside the Fourth Doctor, and Mawdryn Undead alongside the Fifth Doctor before serving as the Second Doctor's companion in The Five Doctors. He subsequently appears in The Sarah Jane Adventures story Enemy of the Bane.
^ Mickey departs in "The Age of Steel" and re-appears in "Army of Ghosts" / "Doomsday" before returning as a companion in "Journey's End". He also appears in "The End of Time".
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"'Doctor Who destroyed my career'". Canada. Archived from the original on 18 May 2015. Retrieved 18 September 2013.
Astrid Peth sacrifices herself in order to kill Max Capricorn by driving him into a reactor core at the end of "Voyage of the Damned". The Tenth Doctor partially resurrects her and sends her atoms flying into space.
Liz Shaw dies in the 1997 Virgin New Adventures novel Eternity Weeps by Jim Mortimore, the victim of an extraterrestrial terraforming virus contracted while part of a UNIT team investigating an alien artefact on the Moon. This is later contradicted by the Sarah Jane Adventures episode "Death of the Doctor" which indicates that Liz Shaw is still alive – although still working on the moon – in 2010; the novel is set in 2003.
^ "BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Nyssa".
BBC – Doctor Who Classic Episode Guide – Doctor Who: The TV Movie – Details
"Steven Moffat reveals Pearl Mackie to debut in 2017, her name and when's she's from..."
Martha departs in "Last of the Time Lords", but returns from "The Sontaran Stratagem" to "The Doctor's Daughter" and again for "The Stolen Earth" / "Journey's End". She also appears in "The End of Time".
The "last serial" column only includes the last serial in which they appeared in a companion role and excludes minor roles, cameos, flashbacks, and so forth. Also, the table refers solely to adventures with the respective Doctor. Some companions who appear with two or more Doctors appear in separate tables.
^ a b c d Also makes a cameo appearance in The Five Doctors
Grace Holloway is killed by the Master but revived by the TARDIS's link to the Eye of Harmony during the 1996 television movie.
Romana leaves the Doctor in Warriors' Gate, and subsequently reappears as the Fourth Doctor's companion in The Five Doctors (in footage from Shada).
Most reappearances of companions in the original series, however, were for anniversary specials such as The Five Doctors and Dimensions in Time, both of which also featured multiple Doctors. One former companion, Sarah Jane Smith, together with the robotic dog K-9, appeared in four and two episodes, respectively, of the revived series[14] more than twenty years after their last appearances in the 20th anniversary story The Five Doctors (1983). The character of Sarah Jane also headed up a Doctor Who spin-off, The Sarah Jane Adventures, with K-9 until Sladen's death. Another companion, Captain Jack Harkness, is the lead character in the spin-off BBC science fiction programme Torchwood. Not only have these former companions continued to make appearances on Doctor Who, they have sometimes been accompanied by some of their own companions from the spin-offs when doing so, including Jack's colleagues Gwen Cooper and Ianto Jones, and Sarah Jane's 'family' Mr Smith, Luke Smith and K-9 Mark IV. Other former companions from both the classic era and revived series have also returned as guest stars in the spin-offs, including Martha Jones on Torchwood, and Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart and Jo Grant on The Sarah Jane Adventures. K-9 Mark I has also been spun off into its own series, albeit with an independent continuity.
River refuses the Doctor's offer to travel with him permanently in "Day of the Moon". She subsequently features as a companion in "A Good Man Goes to War", "Let's Kill Hitler" and "The Wedding of River Song", and also appears in "Closing Time". She later appears in "The Angels Take Manhattan" and "The Name of the Doctor".
^ Clara continues traveling with the Doctor following his regeneration in "The Time of the Doctor".
"BBC – Doctor Who – Classic Series – Companions – Nyssa".
^ "Companion Piece". BBC News. 14 August 2007. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ Bernice meets the Eighth Doctor again in the Big Finish Productions audio plays The Company of Friends and Lies in Ruins.
River Song sacrifices herself in "Forest of the Dead" to save the Doctor's life, but he is able to upload a digital copy of her consciousness to the data core. River continues to appear in the series at earlier points in her life, and her post-death consciousness reappears in "The Name of the Doctor".
Anubis appears in a number of issues starting from Spiral Staircase until he finally joins as a companion in Breakfast at Tyranny's.
^ Howe, David J.; Stammers, Mark; Walker, Stephen James (1994). Doctor Who The Handbook – The First Doctor. Virgin Publishing Ltd. p. 297. ISBN 0-426-20430-1.
^ Howe, David J; Stammers, Mark (1995). Doctor Who — Companions. London: Doctor Who Books. p. 103. ISBN 978-1-85227-582-2.
Please help improve it by merging similar text or removing repeated statements.
Campbell, Mark; Duncan, Paul (April 2014). The Pocket Essential Doctor Who. Pocket Essentials. pp. 20–21. ISBN 978-1-903047-19-4.
^ Richards, Justin; Martin, Andrew (1997). Doctor Who The Book of Lists. BBC Books. pp. 13 and 218. ISBN 0-563-40569-4.
Jo also appears in The Sarah Jane Adventures story Death of the Doctor (2010), alongside Sarah Jane Smith and the Eleventh Doctor.
The following three characters, all associated with UNIT during the Third Doctor's exile to Earth, are sometimes considered his companions despite appearing irregularly during his tenure.[57][58]
After initially refusing to join the Doctor on his travels in "The Runaway Bride", Donna returns as a regular companion from "Partners in Crime". She also appears in "The End of Time".
^ The "Mark I" incarnation of K-9, who leaves the Doctor in The Invasion of Time, returns in the independent spin-off series K-9, regenerating into a newer form. A further model of K-9, "Mark III", features in the pilot of K-9 and Company with Sarah Jane Smith, and Doctor Who episode "School Reunion" with the Tenth Doctor and Sarah Jane. Killed and replaced by K-9 Mark IV in the latter episode, he subsequently appears irregularly in The Sarah Jane Adventures, and also the Doctor Who episode "Journey's End".
Neela Debnath, "Review of Doctor Who ‘An Unearthly Child’ (Series 1)", The Independent blogs, 16 September 2013
The Doctor Who spin-off media have seen the creation of new characters acting as new companions to the Doctor. Most of them have been created to feature as companions for the Sixth, Seventh and Eight Doctor, in the new products presenting themselves as a prosecution of their adventures beyond the TV series, but there also are new companions for other Doctors. None of them have been featured on television, except for the mention of some Big Finish Productions original characters in the minisode The Night of the Doctor; however, some of them have passed from one media to another.
After her departure in Dead-line, Heather makes a guest appearance in Lucky Heather.
Rose departs in "Doomsday", and makes brief cameo appearances in "Partners in Crime", "The Poison Sky" and "Midnight" before returning as a companion from "Turn Left" to "Journey's End". She briefly appears in "The End of Time", and in "The Day of the Doctor" as the interface of the Moment device selects an image of Rose to assist the War Doctor.
^ Julia Joyce portrays a young Rose in "Father's Day"
When the programme changed to colour in 1970, its format changed: the Doctor was now Earth-bound and acquired a supporting cast by his affiliation with the paramilitary organisation United Nations Intelligence Taskforce (UNIT). The Third Doctor, more active and physical than his predecessors, made the role of the "action hero" male companion redundant. In the 1970 season, the Doctor was assisted by scientist Liz Shaw and Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart, along with other UNIT personnel (such as Sergeant Benton). The intellectual Shaw was replaced by Jo Grant in the following season, and as the programme returned to occasional adventures in outer space, the format shifted once more: while UNIT continued to provide a regular "home base" for Earth-bound stories, in stories on other planets, the Doctor and Jo became a two-person team with a close, personal bond. This pattern, the Doctor with a single female companion, became a template from which subsequent episodes of Doctor Who rarely diverged.
Wilf is introduced in "Voyage of the Damned" and recurs throughout series 4 as Donna's grandfather. He officially becomes a short-term companion in "The End of Time".
^ Peri continues travelling with the Doctor following his regeneration in The Caves of Androzani.
"BBC Doctor Who Series 4 Characters". Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ Tamsin departs the Doctor in The Resurrection of Mars to join the Monk. She later appears alongside the Monk in Lucie Miller / To the Death.
^ "Doctor Who – Martha Jones – Character Guide". BBC. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ Foster, Chuck (1 January 2021). "New companion for Series 13". DoctorWhoNews.net. Retrieved 2 January 2021.
Rory is shown dying of old age in "The Angels Take Manhattan", in front of himself, Amy, the Eleventh Doctor and his daughter River Song. He and Amy negate the timeline by jumping off a roof, thereby preventing him from being sent further back in time to die of old age downstairs. This kills both him and Amy, but both are resurrected, as the timeline where they died is negated.
Klein first meets the Doctor and Ace in Colditz and later joins him as a companion in A Thousand Tiny Wings.
Leela dies some time long after Gallifrey is destroyed (it is implied that she survived the Time War) in a trilogy of Big Finish's Companion Chronicles stories, where she is held prisoner by an alien race called the Z'nai.
Amy and Rory are left by the Doctor in "The God Complex", but appear briefly in "Closing Time" and feature as companions again in "The Wedding of River Song". They appear in the final scene of "The Doctor, the Widow and the Wardrobe", before returning as companions from "Asylum of the Daleks".
"Doctor Who – Martha Jones – Character Guide". BBC. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ Also appears in "The End of Time". Additionally, the Doctor appears alongside Sarah Jane in The Sarah Jane Adventures stories The Wedding of Sarah Jane Smith and Death of the Doctor, in his Tenth and Eleventh incarnations respectively.
^ BBC – Doctor Who Classic Episode Guide – Doctor Who: The TV Movie – Details, retrieved 21 April 2013
^ a b "The Power of Three", "The Day of the Doctor"
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"'Doctor Who destroyed my career'". Canada. Archived from the original on 18 May 2015. Retrieved 18 September 2013.
^ Jo also appears in The Sarah Jane Adventures story Death of the Doctor (2010), alongside Sarah Jane Smith and the Eleventh Doctor.
^ Coleman first appeared as Oswin Oswald in "Asylum of the Daleks", revealed in "The Name of the Doctor" to be one of multiple echoes of Clara distributed across time. In "The Snowmen", Coleman initially plays another echo of Clara, with her original iteration appearing briefly at the end of the episode. The latter Clara joins the Doctor permanently in "The Bells of Saint John".
Statement by Sarah Jane Smith to Luke Smith in the epilogue scene of Death of the Doctor part 2
^ "Doctor Who – Captain Jack Harkness – Character Guide". BBC. 28 March 2008. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
The series never establishes how Mel meets the Doctor, who first appears as part of the Doctor's future. Their first meeting is recounted in the Past Doctor Adventures novel Business Unusual and the Big Finish Productions audio-drama The Wrong Doctors.
^ Majenta initially appears in Hotel Historia before joining the Doctor as a companion in Thinktwice.
^ Anubis appears in a number of issues starting from Spiral Staircase until he finally joins as a companion in Breakfast at Tyranny's.
Several other companions have died subsequent to their companionships. Sir Alistair Lethbridge-Stewart's death months earlier was revealed in "The Wedding of River Song", and he was later remembered fondly by his daughter and the Eleventh Doctor.[100] When the series was relaunched in 2005, the Doctor believed himself to be the only Time Lord to have survived the Last Great Time War, indicating that he believes that Susan Foreman and Romana were killed, and that Leela, who settled on Gallifrey,[20] was lost when that planet was destroyed in the Last Great Time War. However, the fiftieth anniversary episode "The Day of the Doctor" reveals that the planet still exists in a separate pocket universe, leaving their fates uncertain. In 2050, Sarah Jane Smith is implied to be dead by Rani Chandra in "The Mad Woman in the Attic". Vicki left the First Doctor circa 1250 BCE and passed into legend as Cressida.[101]
^ Statement by Mickey Smith to Martha Smith-Jones in "The End of Time"
A recurring theme of the new series is the toll the loss of companions takes on the Doctor. While they would more or less easily deal with their companions' departures in the classic series, the new series shows the Doctor having a harder time recovering when a companion leaves them, especially when they do so under tragic circumstances and if the Doctor develops a strong emotional tie beyond friendship. After losing Donna Noble, the Tenth Doctor refused to travel with a companion until after his regeneration, unable to cope with them leaving anymore, thus resulting in one-off companions (Jackson Lake, Christina de Souza, Adeleide Brooke and Wilfred Mott) . Later, the loss of Amy and Rory Williams – his parents-in-law by way of his marriage to River Song – drives the Eleventh Doctor into a deep depression, and he retreats to Victorian London where he refuses to get involved in the world's affairs anymore.[49] Additionally, "Let's Kill Hitler" spotlights the Doctor's continuing guilt in relation to several past companions. Series 9 (2015) dealt with the Twelfth Doctor's growing fear over the potential of losing Clara Oswald.[nb 1] Her death in "Face the Raven" leads the Doctor to undertake extreme measures to undo her fate, as depicted in the Series 9 finale "Hell Bent". The impact of the death of his wife, River Song, is a subplot of both "The Husbands of River Song" and "The Return of Doctor Mysterio".
Howe, David J; Stammers, Mark (1995). Doctor Who — Companions. London: Doctor Who Books. p. 103. ISBN 978-1-85227-582-2.
Neela Debnath, "Review of Doctor Who ‘An Unearthly Child’ (Series 1)", The Independent blogs, 16 September 2013 Archived 4 October 2013 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed 8 October 2013
^ Compassion departs the Doctor in The Ancestor Cell, but later makes appearances in Escape Velocity and The Gallifrey Chronicles.
Mel continues travelling with the Doctor following his regeneration in Time and the Rani.
A few of the companions have died during the course of the series. In The Daleks' Master Plan, Katarina sacrificed herself by opening her airlock to save the others from the mad fugitive Kirksen, and was blown into the vacuum of space. In the same serial, Sara Kingdom was rapidly aged to dust by a Time Destructor. While Adric attempted to divert a spaceship from crashing into Earth, a Cyberman destroyed the controls; they hurtled through time and crashed into the planet, creating the Chicxulub crater and causing the K-Pg extinction event (this fulfilled Silurians' prophecy and facilitated the evolution of mammals).[90] The android Kamelion, after coming under the Master's control, convinced the Doctor to destroy him, and the Doctor complied.[91] Astrid Peth sacrificed herself to kill Max Capricorn, saving the lives of millions aboard the interstellar space liner RMS Titanic and in the greater London area.[92] Before River Song's formal companionship began, she sacrificed herself in order to save those trapped in the Library's computer servers' simulations.[93] The Doctor uploaded her "data ghost" into the library servers, from which she later is able to communicate across time and space with Madame Vastra, Jenny Flint, Strax, and Clara Oswald in "The Name of the Doctor".Adelaide Brooke killed herself after the Doctor altered the timeline by rescuing her; this ensured that her descendants would explore the galaxy and the wider universe as originally destined.[42] Rory Williams is touched by a Weeping Angel in 2012 and sent back in time.[94]With the encouragement of her daughter, River Song, and against the Doctor's pleas, Amy Pond allows herself to be touched by the same Angel in the hope of being reunited with her husband in the past. She is successful, and they grow old together in New York City, die, and are buried in Queens on the spot from which they will later be sent back in time in 2012.[94]In fighting the Ice Governess in the final hour of Christmas Eve 1892, a Victorian era incarnation of Clara Oswald falls off of the cloud on which the TARDIS was parked, plummeting to the ground.[95]Another incarnation of Clara Oswald (named Oswin Oswald) dies in "Asylum of the Daleks"; the character disabling the planet's shielding thus enabling the Doctor, Amy Pond and Rory Williams to escape.[96]
Darren Plant portrayed John Benton as a baby in The Time Monster, and Steven Stanley did so as a child in the direct-to-video release, Wartime.
^ Lethbridge-Stewart appears alongside the Second Doctor as a colonel in The Web of Fear and subsequently as a brigadier in The Invasion.
"Doctor Who – Captain Jack Harkness – Character Guide". BBC. 28 March 2008. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
Adric, Nyssa and Tegan continue travelling with the Doctor following his regeneration in Logopolis.
^ Liv initially appears in Robophobia alongside the Seventh Doctor before joining the Eighth Doctor as a companion in The Traitor.
"Companion Piece". BBC News. 14 August 2007. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ Cook, Benjamin (9 January 2008). "Sands of time". Radio Times. No. 11–17 April 2009. pp. 16–20.
Another change in the revived era is the depiction of many companions' pre-Doctor lives, particularly their childhoods; no companion was so depicted in the classic era, aside from John Benton being temporarily 'de-aged' by The Master.[40] Companions Rose Tyler,[41] Mickey Smith,[30] Adelaide Brooke,[42] Amy Pond,[43] Rory Williams,[12] River Song[44] and Clara Oswald[45] have all been portrayed in their youths by juvenile actors on Doctor Who; the pre-companionship lives of the Pond-Williams-Song family being particularly well-documented. Companions Jack Harkness[46] and Sarah Jane Smith[47] have also been depicted in their youths on their respective spin-off series. In addition to having been de-aged once in the classic era, John Benton was the first companion whose childhood was chronicled.[48]
^ "Who Should Be So Lucky?". 19 December 2007. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
When the series returned in 2005 a single female companion remained the standard format, though intermittent and short-term companions also featured. More consistent exceptions occurred between series 5 and 7, when the Eleventh Doctor travelled with Amy Pond and Rory Williams, and series 10, where the Twelfth Doctor appeared alongside Bill Potts and Nardole. In conjunction with the introduction of the first female Doctor, the Thirteenth Doctor's era features multiple companions (both male and female) throughout.
In The Trial of a Time Lord, Peri Brown is killed by King Yrcanos in Mindwarp, after her brain has been replaced by that of Kiv, a member of the Mentor race. However, in The Ultimate Foe it is revealed that Peri had not been killed and had instead become Yrcanos's consort.
Clara dies in "Face the Raven" and appears only as an illusion in "Heaven Sent", before being temporarily rescued from death and appearing as a companion for the final time in "Hell Bent". She subsequently briefly appears in "Twice Upon a Time".
During the course of the show's history, there have been a few occasions when companions have died while on adventures with the Doctor. They are:
^ A younger Rory is played by Ezekiel Wigglesworth in "Let's Kill Hitler".
Although the term "companion" is designated to specific characters by the show's producers and appears in the BBC's promotional material and off-screen fictional terminology, there is no formal definition that constitutes such a designation. The definition of who is and is not a companion becomes less clear in the newer series.[4] For instance, Stephen Brook in the Guardian newspaper's Organgrinder blog discounted Michelle Ryan as a likely next companion but said that "what constitutes a Doctor Who companion is no longer clear".[4] During the Doctor's latest incarnations, his primary companions, such as Rose Tyler and Martha Jones, have fulfilled a distinct dramatic role, more significant than other, less-prominent TARDIS travellers such as Adam, Jack, and Mickey. The British press referred to Martha as the "first ethnic minority companion in the 43-year television history of Doctor Who"[5]despite the presence of Mickey Smith in the previous series—including several episodes in which he travelled in the TARDIS with the Doctor.
"Companions". Doctor Who: Classic Series Episode Guide. BBC. 2007. Retrieved 14 September 2007.
Howe, David J.; Stammers, Mark; Walker, Stephen James (1994). Doctor Who The Handbook – The First Doctor. Virgin Publishing Ltd. p. 297. ISBN 0-426-20430-1.
^ "Doctor Who – Mickey Smith – Character Guide". BBC. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ Cindy appears in a number of issues as a friend of Gabby's starting from Revolutions of Terror until she finally joins as a companion in Arena of Fear.
Previous companions have reappeared in the series. Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart reunited with later incarnations of the Doctor in Mawdryn Undead and Battlefield. He and Sergeant Benton began as returning characters in the first place, having appeared with the Second Doctor in The Web of Fear and again in The Invasion, prior to starting their full-time association with the Third and Fourth Doctors.Tegan Jovanka was the first full-time companion to part from the Doctor and subsequently return to full-time companionship, although the break in her tenure had been pre-planned.
Jamie returns to his own time in The War Games, but later appears in the Sixth Doctor-era story The Two Doctors, again as the Second Doctor's companion.
^ Wilf is introduced in "Voyage of the Damned" and recurs throughout series 4 as Donna's grandfather. He officially becomes a short-term companion in "The End of Time".
^ After her departure in Dead-line, Heather makes a guest appearance in Lucky Heather.
^ "The Eleventh Hour", "The Big Bang", "Let's Kill Hitler", "The God Complex", "The Angels Take Manhattan"
The Eleventh Doctor learns of the death of the Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart in "The Wedding of River Song" via phone call, coinciding with the death of the actor who portrayed him, Nicholas Courtney.
^ Caitlin Blackwood plays a young Amy (as Amelia) in "The Eleventh Hour", "The Big Bang", "Let's Kill Hitler" and "The God Complex", along with archival footage in "The Angels Take Manhattan"
Conversely, families and friends of most companions in the revived era are extensively and continually depicted, and their adventures with the Doctor are generally not kept secret. The revived era has also featured a number of companions related to other companions by blood or marriage (Donna Noble's grandfather Wilfred Mott; Amy Pond's fiancé (later husband) Rory Williams, and the couple's daughter River Song; former companions Mickey Smith and Martha Jones who married subsequent to their companionship; Graham O'Brien and step-grandson Ryan Sinclair).[35] No such relationships occurred among companions in the classic era, although original companions Ian Chesterton and Barbara Wright are reported in the revived era to have married subsequent to their companionship, and Ben Jackson and Polly are likewise reported to be together.[36]The families of some classic-era companions too have been depicted in the revived era, such as Jo Grant (now known as Jo Jones)'s grandson Santiago Jones;[37] and Sarah Jane Smith's parents,[38] adopted son Luke Smith, adopted daughter Sky Smith, and alternate timeline fiancé Peter Dalton;[39] and Alistair Lethbridge-Stewart's daughter Kate Stewart.[33]
^ An illusionary Amy appears to the Doctor before his regeneration in "The Time of the Doctor".
Sara Kingdom, is killed in episode 12 of The Daleks' Master Planwhen she undergoes extreme aging as a side-effect of the First Doctor's activation of a "Time Destructor" device.[102]
In the 2020 web story "Farewell, Sarah Jane", Sarah Jane Smith is said to have died.
Abby (then called Amy) originally travels with the Doctor from The Judgement of Isskar to The Chaos Pool, then reunites with the Doctor in the boxset Wicked Sisters.
Doctor Who: Best of the Companions (Television production). BBC America. 28 August 2011.
"Ten 'Waters of Mars' teasers". Digital Spy. 30 October 2009. Retrieved 18 June 2022.
^ Mickey is introduced in "Rose" as Rose's boyfriend and recurs regularly before becoming a companion.
^ Klein travels with the Doctor from A Thousand Tiny Wings to The Architects of History. A version of Klein from an alternative timeline meets the Doctor in UNIT: Dominion, travels with him from Persuasion to Daleks Among Us, and encounters him again in Warlock's Cross.
The Temptation of Sarah Jane Smith, Whatever Happened to Sarah Jane?
"A Good Man Goes to War", "The Impossible Astronaut", "Day of the Moon", "Let's Kill Hitler"
^ "Doctor Who, The Snowmen", BBC, retrieved 26 April 2013
Nardole first appears in "The Husbands of River Song" before appearing as a companion from "The Return of Doctor Mysterio".
Susan leaves the Doctor in The Dalek Invasion of Earth, later appearing in The Five Doctors as companion to the First Doctor (then played by Richard Hurndall).
Peri continues travelling with the Doctor following his regeneration in The Caves of Androzani.
Also appears in "The End of Time". Additionally, the Doctor appears alongside Sarah Jane in The Sarah Jane Adventures stories The Wedding of Sarah Jane Smith and Death of the Doctor, in his Tenth and Eleventh incarnations respectively.
In the Fourth Doctor's final season, he acquired three companions (Adric, Tegan, and Nyssa), and this situation continued under the Fifth Doctor for much of his first season. Adric was written out by the unusual method within the series of being "killed off" in the serial Earthshock. By the time of the Sixth Doctor, a single companion had become standard again.
Companions in the new series also have a more flexible tenure than their classical predecessors. Several companion characters have returned to the series after leaving the Doctor's company, most notably in the Series Four finale "The Stolen Earth"/"Journey's End" (2008), which features a record eight past, present and future companions: Donna is joined by a returning Rose, Martha, Jack, Sarah Jane, and Mickey, while past companion K9 and future companion Wilfred Mott make appearances. This tendency, plus the increase in "one-off" companions like Astrid Peth and Jackson Lake, has further obscured the matter of who is and is not a companion.[4]
^ Nardole first appears in "The Husbands of River Song" before appearing as a companion from "The Return of Doctor Mysterio".
Flip first meets the Doctor in The Crimes of Thomas Brewster and later joins him as a companion from The Curse of Davros to Scavenger. She re-joins the Doctor and new companion Constance in Quicksilver.
^ Benton appears alongside the Second Doctor in The Invasion as Corporal Benton.
Caitlin Blackwood plays a young Amy (as Amelia) in "The Eleventh Hour", "The Big Bang", "Let's Kill Hitler" and "The God Complex", along with archival footage in "The Angels Take Manhattan"
Not all companion deaths have been permanent however. Jack Harkness resurrects after each death, having been made immortal by Rose Tyler in "The Parting of the Ways". Rory Williams suffered several deaths, each of which was negated by alternate timelines, paradoxes, resurrection by advanced alien medicine, or the rebooting of the universe. Clara Oswald dies in "Face the Raven", but in a subsequent episode ("Hell Bent") her time stream is frozen at the moment of death by the Time Lords so that they can interrogate her about the Hybrid; the Doctor takes advantage of this to save her life, but she remains technically neither alive nor dead, does not age or have a pulse. After her departure as a companion of the Twelfth Doctor, she teams with the immortal Ashildr and travels in a stolen TARDIS.
Brook, Stephen (23 January 2009). "Michelle Ryan guest stars in Doctor Who. But would she make a good companion?". The Guardian. UK. Retrieved 1 June 2010. A minor factor in the continual swirl around Doctor Who is that what constitutes a Doctor Who companion is no longer clear. Sure, Rose, Martha, and Donna were all companions. So was Captain Jack. But what about Mickey and Jackie? How do you qualify? Name in the opening credits, regular trips in the Tardis? The Doctor kisses you? I'm no longer sure. Modern TV drama is so difficult.
^ Lofficier, Jean-Marc (1994). The Doctor Who Programme Guide Third Edition. Virgin Publishing Ltd. pp. 16, 43 and 45. ISBN 0-426-20342-9.
Clara Oswald is killed by a Quantum Shade in "Face the Raven". In "Hell Bent", the Doctor uses Time Lord technology to "extract" Clara from the moment before her death, but it remains a fixed event to which she must eventually return.
^ Robinson, Nigel; Nathan-Turner, John (1981). The Doctor Who Quiz Book. Target Books. pp. 39 and 98. ISBN 0-426-20143-4.
^ "Press Office – Doctor Who press pack phase six Episode Seven". BBC. 4 May 2005. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ After initially refusing to join the Doctor on his travels in "The Runaway Bride", Donna returns as a regular companion from "Partners in Crime". She also appears in "The End of Time".
"Lindsay Duncan to star in second Doctor Who Special of 2009"
^ "Companions". Doctor Who: Classic Series Episode Guide. BBC. 2007. Retrieved 14 September 2007.
^ Lucie departs the Doctor in Death in Blackpool before re-appearing as the Monk's companion in The Book of Kells and The Resurrection of Mars. She later appears alongside the Doctor in Relative Dimensions, Prisoner of the Sun, and Lucie Miller / To the Death.
K-9 Mark III sacrifices himself in "School Reunion" in order to save the Doctor and his friends from a group of aliens. The subsequent K-9 Mark IV that the Doctor leaves with Sarah Jane tells her that the Mark III's files have been transferred to the new machine.
Lofficier, Jean-Marc (1994). The Doctor Who Programme Guide Third Edition. Virgin Publishing Ltd. pp. 16, 43 and 45. ISBN 0-426-20342-9.
^ Neela Debnath, "Review of Doctor Who ‘An Unearthly Child’ (Series 1)", The Independent blogs, 16 September 2013 Archived 4 October 2013 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed 8 October 2013
Pixley, Andrew (16 December 1998). "Doctor Who Magazine". Doctor Who Magazine (272): 21.
^ "Series 10: Nardole is a Full-Time "Non-Human" Companion". 15 December 2016.
Gareth Roberts (24 September 2011). "Open All Hours". Doctor Who Confidential. Series 6. Episode 12.4:52 minutes in. BBC. The Doctor allows Craig to come along and play the part of his companion [...]
^ Mel continues travelling with the Doctor following his regeneration in Time and the Rani.
^ Martha departs in "Last of the Time Lords", but returns from "The Sontaran Stratagem" to "The Doctor's Daughter" and again for "The Stolen Earth" / "Journey's End". She also appears in "The End of Time".
In the earliest episodes of Doctor Who, the dramatic structure of the programme's cast was rather different from the hero-and-sidekick pattern that emerged later. Initially, the character of the Doctor was unclear, with uncertain motives and abilities.[1]The protagonists were schoolteachers Ian Chesterton and Barbara Wright, who provided the audience's point of view in stories set in Earth's history and on alien worlds. Ian in particular served the role of the action hero. The fourth character was the Doctor's granddaughter, Susan, who (though initially presented as an "unearthly child") was intended[citation needed] as an identification figure for younger viewers.
"Doctor Who – Sarah Jane Smith – Character Guide". BBC. Retrieved 1 June 2010.
^ Placement between The Eye of the Giant and Terror of the Autons confirmed by cover blurb.
This page was last edited on 1 July 2022, at 14:14 (UTC).
The Scales of Injustice is a Virgin Missing Adventures original novel written by Gary Russell based on the long-running British science fiction television series Doctor Who. It features the Third Doctor, Liz Shaw and UNIT.
Placement between The Eye of the Giant and Terror of the Autons confirmed by cover blurb.
The Doctor suspects Silurians are afoot when a child goes missing in a seaside community, a policewoman begins drawing cave paintings, and the employees at the mysterious Glasshouse project are desperate to hide something. Meanwhile, his assistant Liz Shaw teams up with a journalist to search for people who don't exist, and Brigadier Lethbridge Stewart copes with personal and UNIT crises. And how does all this link back to the very heart of the British Government?
This novel begins a trilogy concerning the Pale Man and the Irish Twins which continues in Russell's two Past Doctor Adventures Business Unusual and Instruments of Darkness.
This novel provides the departure scene for the companion Liz Shaw. In the television series her final appearance was in the last episode of Inferno, but she is not seen to leave the Doctor. In the Terror of the Autons her departure was announced by the Brigadier.
^ The Doctor's Timeline at The Whoniverse gives support for specific placement relative to other spin-off media.
The novel is also designed as a prequel to the events of the television serial Warriors of the Deep. Specifically, this story explains how the Doctor knows Icthar and how he knows of the Triad and the Myrka.
The Doctor's Timeline at The Whoniverse gives support for specific placement relative to other spin-off media.
The Paradox Planet (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2016)
The Doctor and Adric have only just made it back when they're asked to help the people of Traken from a creature known as "Melkur." On Traken, Adric and the Doctor are introduced to the aristocratic teen Nyssa of Traken. Both Nyssa and her father, Tremas, assist the Doctor in stopping Melkur, who is in fact revealed to be another TARDIS that is controlled by the Master. The Master is narrowly defeated, but manages to take over Tremas' body, thus giving himself a new incarnation.
The Age of Sutekh (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2018)
"Doctor Who: a celebration of Tom Baker". Den of Geek. 20 July 2011.
The Demon Rises (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Leela & K9) (2018)
The Bad Penny (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2018)
The Hinchcliffe Era (1974–1977) is one of the most controversial in the classic series run, the increasing horror elements and depictions of violence attracted much criticism from Mary Whitehouse, who had previously attacked the Barry Letts era for serials like Terror of the Autons (1971). The controversy led BBC Director General to apologise to Whitehouse for the ending of one episode of The Seeds of Doom (1976).[9] Hinchcliffe was moved on to police drama Target in 1977 at the conclusion of his third year. Graham Williams – who had been developing Target – was brought on to take over as producer for Baker's fourth season.
The Beautiful People (adventure related by the character Romana II) (2007)
The overarching theme of decay reaches its conclusion in Baker's final story Logopolis (1981), which Bidmead personally wrote. The story is particularly sombre, even grim at times. Themes of decay and death are constant in the story, personified in the ghostly Watcher, effectively a harbinger of the Fourth Doctor's 'death'.
Death Match (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Leela & K9) (2015)
In the fiftieth anniversary special, "The Day of the Doctor" (2013), the Fourth Doctor appears again in clips as past and future incarnations come together to assist in the saving of Gallifrey. Tom Baker also appears in the final scene of the episode, as a mysterious elderly museum curator who appears right after the Eleventh Doctor remarks he would like to hold this job some day.He alludes to his resemblance to the Fourth Doctor by talking about revisiting "old favourite" faces and hints that he too might be or have been the Doctor.
For audiences in the United States, who saw the show only in syndication (mostly on PBS), Tom Baker was the incarnation of the Doctor who is the best known, since his episodes were the ones most frequently broadcast stateside. The first four seasons of these Time Life distributed stories added narration by Howard da Silva at the beginning and end of each episode. Also in Italy, where most of the classic series of Doctor Who were never broadcast on television, the only episodes to be broadcast were those of the Fourth Doctor.[12][13][14]
In an effort to evade the Black Guardian, the Doctor installs a "Randomiser" in the TARDIS so that not even the Black Guardian can anticipate where they go. Ironically, the first place the Randomiser sends them is the home planet of the Daleks, Skaro (Destiny of the Daleks). Perhaps because of this, the Doctor begins frequently over-riding the machine, first travelling to Paris for a holiday, only to get caught up in an alien scheme to steal the Mona Lisa (City of Death). He eventually discards the device altogether, remarking that he's fed up with not knowing where he's going.
^ Cook, Benjamin (July 2016). "Tom Baker: The Ultimate Interview". Doctor Who Magazine (501).
The Renaissance Man (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2012)
In 1979 and 1980, Tom Baker played the Fourth Doctor (alongside Lalla Ward's Romana) in a series of four television commercials for Prime Computers.[17] Disliking the scripts he was given, Baker agreed to film the advertisements only if he could rewrite them himself, and added a scene where the Doctor follows the computer's instruction to marry Romana.[18] In 1997, Baker reprised the role once again in a spot for New Zealand's National Superannuation insurance company.[19]
7.9Comics																								7.9.1TV Comic																											7.9.2TV Comic Annual																											7.9.3TV Comic Specials																											7.9.4Doctor Who Magazine																											7.9.5Doctor Who Magazine specials																											7.9.6IDW series
The Shadow of London (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2018)
The Fourth Doctor appeared in 172 episodes (179, counting the regeneration at the end of Planet of the Spiders and the aborted Shada) over a seven-year period, from 1974 to 1981. This makes him the longest-running on-screen Doctor of the series.
The Fourth Doctor is an incarnation of the Doctor, theprotagonist of the BBC science fiction television series Doctor Who. He is portrayed by Tom Baker.
The Genesis Chamber (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2016)
The Fourth Doctor appears again in the 20th anniversary special The Five Doctors (1983). A renegade Time Lord attempts to pull the first five incarnations of the Doctor out of time, inadvertently trapping the Fourth Doctor (and Romana) in a "time eddy" from which they are later freed. The Fourth Doctor also had a small cameo at the beginning of Dimensions in Time, warning his Third, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh incarnation to watch out for the Rani. Brief holographic clips of the Fourth Doctor appear in "The Next Doctor" (2008) and "The Eleventh Hour" (2010).
Visions of the Fourth Doctor appear in the Fifth Doctor serials Earthshock (1982), Mawdryn Undead (1983) and Resurrection of the Daleks (1984), and in the 21st century series in the episodes "The Next Doctor", "The Eleventh Hour", "The Lodger" and "Nightmare in Silver". His voice is also used in "The Almost People". The Fourth Doctor also appears in Sarah Jane's flashback in The Mad Woman in the Attic, via footage taken from The Hand of Fear. Similar flashbacks appear in The Sarah Jane Adventures story Death of the Doctor. In "The Name of the Doctor," he is seen briefly by Clara Oswald wandering around the TARDIS (clip taken from The Invasion of Time). He was also seen as an echo running past Clara inside the Eleventh Doctor's time stream in the end of "The Name of the Doctor."Archival images were used for his appearance in "The Day of the Doctor". During the special, Tom Baker portrays a mysterious museum curator who speaks with the Eleventh Doctor and hints to him that he may be a future version of the Doctor "revisiting" a favourite past incarnation. The Fourth Doctor is also seen briefly during Missy's exposition of the Twelfth Doctor's fighting android assassins ("The Witch's Familiar").
Night of the Stormcrow (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2013)
The English way of Death (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2015)
Tales from the Vault (short adventure related by the character Romana I) (2011)
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 20:10 (UTC).
The Thief Who Stole Time (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Romana II) (2017)
The Invasion of E-Space (adventure related by the character Romana II) (2010)
The Sons of Kaldor (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2018)
Heart of TARDIS by Dave Stone (Also features the Second Doctor, although neither Doctor meets the other, each Doctor simply tackling a different end of the same crisis with only the Fourth aware of his other self's involvement)
^ Marcello Rossi; DVD Box Set Doctor Who – I Dalek Invadono la terra. DNC Entertainment, 2011
^ "BBC – Doctor Who – A Brief History of a Time Lord". www.bbc.co.uk.
"Variations", a mini-documentary included on the Power of Kroll Special Edition DVD
7Other appearances											Toggle Other appearances subsection																					7.1Spoofs																											7.2Advertising																											7.3Argo Records audio drama																											7.4BBC audio dramas																											7.5Big Finish audio dramas																											7.6Short Trips audios																											7.7Audio books																											7.8Novels																								7.8.1Virgin New Adventures																											7.8.2Virgin Missing Adventures																											7.8.3Past Doctor Adventures																											7.8.4Eighth Doctor Adventures																											7.8.5Telos Doctor Who novellas																											7.8.6Penguin Fiftieth Anniversary eBook novellas																											7.8.7Other																														7.9Comics																								7.9.1TV Comic																											7.9.2TV Comic Annual																											7.9.3TV Comic Specials																											7.9.4Doctor Who Magazine																											7.9.5Doctor Who Magazine specials																											7.9.6IDW series																														7.10Video games
The Eternal Battle (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2017)
Star Trek: The Next Generation/Doctor Who: Assimilation2 (Flashback of the Fourth Doctor)
Legacy of Death (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2016)
The Silent Scream (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2017)
The Doctor's companionship with Sarah Jane came to an end when he received a telepathic summons to Gallifrey, as humans were not then allowed on the planet. The summons turns out to be part of a trap set by his enemy the Master. The renegade Time Lord has used up all his regenerations and has degenerated into little more than a withered skeletal husk. The Doctor is framed for the assassination of the President of the High Council of Time Lords and put on trial. To avoid execution, the Doctor invokes an obscure law and declares himself a candidate for the office, giving himself the time he needs to prove his innocence and expose the real culprit. This ultimately results in a climactic battle with the Master (The Deadly Assassin).
Williams was given specific instructions to lighten the tone of the stories, thus playing to Baker's strengths. However, the first three stories (which were geared towards the previous style) had already been commissioned. Robert Holmes had agreed to stay on to edit them, but he ended up leaving after only doing the first two, Horror of Fang Rock (1977) and The Invisible Enemy (1977). The task of editing Image of the Fendahl (1977) fell to his successor Anthony Read. The season was only narrowly finished. With the cast and crew suffering from burnout and lack of resources, the season finale The Invasion of Time (1978) was completed largely by virtue of it having been written to make use of preexisting sets, props, and costumes.
According to Baker, the Doctor's scarf was the idea of costume designer James Acheson. Acheson, knowing little about knitting, procured large quantities of various colours of wool, and commissioned Begonia Pope, a friend of his, to create a colourful design.She proceeded to use all of the wool provided, resulting in the absurdly long, but iconic, accessory.[6]
Doctor Who: Philip Hinchcliffe Presents (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2014)The Ghosts of GralsteadThe Devil's Armada
The Cloisters of Terror (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2015)
"4th doctor who New Zealand National Superannuation adverts". YouTube. Archived from the original on 18 November 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2010.
Baker portrayed the character for seven consecutive seasons, which remains the longest tenure of any actor to portray the lead, counting both the classic and modern series. He is considered to be one of the most recognisable and iconic incarnations of the Doctor both in the United Kingdom and internationally.
The Master agrees to help the Doctor stop the spread of Entropy by adapting the Pharos Project radio telescope on Earth so that they are able to reopen the CVEs. However, when the Master tries to take control of it, the Doctor runs out under the upturned radio dish to sever the cable linking the Master to the CVEs. The Master makes the dish start rotating so that the Doctor will fall to his death. Before he falls, he manages to tear out the cable, only to leave his companions watching as he clings to the cable. As his grip begins to slip, he sees visions of all the enemies he's faced over the years, then falls. Adric, Nyssa, and Tegan gather around the mortally wounded Doctor and call out his name. The Doctor begins seeing visions of all his companions and even the Brigadier calling his name.
Shortly after this, the Fourth Doctor and Romana are projected outside the known universe and into a universe of negative coordinates, known as Exo-Space. The TARDIS lands on a planet called Alzerius (Full Circle), where they are joined by a young prodigy named Adric. It's in E-Space that the Doctor destroys the last of a race of giant Vampires who had once threatened all life in his universe. Eventually, the Doctor and his two companions find themselves in a white void with no coordinates, a sort of membrane between the two universes. A way out soon forms, but Romana and K-9 choose to remain behind to help free a race of enslaved creatures in E-Space (Warriors' Gate).
The Auntie Matter (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Romana I) (2013)
Stealers from Saiph (adventure related by the character Romana I) (2009)
This incarnation is generally regarded as one of the most recognisable of the Doctors and one of the most popular, especially in the United States. In polls conducted by Doctor Who Magazine, Tom Baker has lost the "Best Doctor" category only three times: once to Sylvester McCoy (the Seventh Doctor) in 1990, and twice to David Tennant (the Tenth Doctor) in 2006 and 2009.[2] The Fourth Doctor's eccentric style of dress and speech – particularly his trademark look of wearing a long scarf and having a fondness for Jelly Babies – made him an immediately recognisable figure and he quickly captivated the viewing public's imagination. The producer of Baker's early seasons, Philip Hinchcliffe, stated that the Fourth Doctor's bohemian appearance and anti-establishment style appealed to older, college-age students.[3] The Fourth Doctor's time enjoyed a significant boost in viewing figures, averaging between 8 and 10 million viewers in just his first year (20–25 percent of the entire viewing audience of Britain).[4] By 1979, the figures averaged between 9 and 11 million, going as high as 16.1 million for the final episode of City of Death (though this was during the ITV technicians strike of 1979 which meant the BBC was the sole broadcaster on the air for several weeks).[5]
A background character appearing in one episode of Toast of London resembles the fourth incarnation of the Doctor. Peter Davison, who played the fifth incarnation, also appears in the series as himself.[16]
^ "Variations", a mini-documentary included on the Power of Kroll Special Edition DVD
The Oseidon Adventure (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2012)
The Pyralis Effect (adventure related by the character Romana II) (2009)
Casualties of Time (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2016)
White Ghosts (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2014)
He also appeared in the specials The Five Doctors (via footage from the incomplete Shada) and made his final appearance as the Doctor in the charity special Dimensions in Time (aside from a series of television advertisements in New Zealand in 1997).[1]
Energy of the Daleks (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2012)
"BBC – Doctor Who – A Brief History of a Time Lord". www.bbc.co.uk.
7.8Novels																								7.8.1Virgin New Adventures																											7.8.2Virgin Missing Adventures																											7.8.3Past Doctor Adventures																											7.8.4Eighth Doctor Adventures																											7.8.5Telos Doctor Who novellas																											7.8.6Penguin Fiftieth Anniversary eBook novellas																											7.8.7Other
Doctor Who: Shada: The Lost Adventure by Douglas Adams by Gareth Roberts
The Sands of Life (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana I & K9) (2013)
Requiem for the Rocket Men (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Leela & K9) (2015)
Asylum by Peter Darvill-Evans (features the Fourth Doctor early in his life interacting with Nyssa from a point after she has left the Fifth Doctor)
The Helm of Awe (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2017)
Bidmead only began to gain some momentum by the fifth story, Warriors' Gate. The story is notable for the Doctor's sombre mood and seeming death wish, as well as the surprisingly adult nature of the story. The surreal, even dream-like elements, such as time shifts and walking through mirrors, also earned the story some distinction. At John Nathan-Turner's insistence the Master was brought back. This was accomplished by Bidmead changing the villain in The Keeper of Traken (1981) into the Master.
The Fourth Doctor's stories saw fewer recurring (or returning) enemies than in previous eras. The Daleks only appeared twice and the Cybermen only had one story, Revenge of the Cybermen (1975). UNIT, which had featured in most of the Third Doctor's adventures, only appeared in four early Fourth Doctor stories, playing a minor role in its last appearance, season 13's The Seeds of Doom (1976) in which none of the regular UNIT staff appeared.
The Dalek Contract (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana I & K9) (2013)
Zygon Hunt (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2014)
The Mind-Runners (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Leela & K9) (2018)
"David Tennant named 'best Dr Who'". BBC News. 6 December 2006. Retrieved 25 February 2007.
The Well-Mannered War (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2015)
Destination Nerva (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2012)
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Alden Bates' NZ Doctor Who Page – older news items". www.tetrap.com.
Subterranea (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Romana II) (2017)
The Skin of the Sleek (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Romana II) (2017)
"All Tom Baker Doctor Who Prime Computer Ads". YouTube. Archived from the original on 18 November 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2010.
The Romance of Crime (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2015)
Shortly afterward, the powerful White Guardian assigns the Doctor the task of finding the six segments of the Key to Time, sending a young female Time Lord named Romana (as portrayed by Mary Tamm) to assist him. The two Gallifreyans travel to a variety of planets, encountering strange and unusual allies and enemies, gathering the six segments and defeat the equally powerful Black Guardian, who sought the Key for himself. After the conclusion of the quest, Romana regenerates into a new form (portrayed then by Lalla Ward)(Destiny of the Daleks).
Imposingly tall, with eyes that seem to constantly boggle, a mass of curls for hair and prominently displayed teeth, the Doctor favours an outfit that usually consists of a shirt, waistcoat, cravat, trousers, a frock coat (with pockets containing a seemingly endless array of apparently useless items that would nevertheless suit the Doctor's purposes when used), a wide-brimmed hat and, most famously, his impractically long, multi-coloured scarf, which was apparently knitted for him by Madame Nostradamus (whom he refers to as a "witty little knitter"). When it is damaged in The Ark in Space (1975), the Doctor declares with regret that it is "irreplaceable."
He then looks up at the three of them and utters his last words: "It's the end-- but the moment has been prepared for..." He then motions to the white-clad figure of the Watcher, who begins approaching the Doctor. The Watcher, a manifestation of the Doctor's future incarnation, merges with the Doctor and triggers his regeneration. "He was the Doctor all the time," remarks Nyssa, as the three watch him transform into the Fifth Doctor.
At the same time, stories such as The Deadly Assassin (1976) established most of the mythology surrounding the Time Lords and the Doctor's home planet Gallifrey and that would remain a key feature for the rest of the classic series and still be felt in the revived series. For example, it is established that Time Lords only have a limited number of regenerations, which is a driving plot point in the stories Mawdryn Undead, The Five Doctors, The Trial of a Time Lord, the 1996 television movie and the 2013 Christmas special "The Time of the Doctor".
As the Doctor prepares to travel to the planet Logopolis to get the Chameleon Circuit fixed, Tegan Jovanka appears in the console room (having previously gotten lost in the corridors of the TARDIS). The conduit between E-Space and our own universe is revealed to be a Charged Vacuum Emboitment (CVE) created by the mathematicians of Logopolis as part of a system to allow the Universe to continue on past its point of heat death. Nyssa shows up, explaining that she was brought to Logopolis by the same figure that the Doctor encountered. Logopolis soon falls under the Master's control, but the stasis field he is generating ends up releasing Entropy and eroding matter throughout the universe, threatening to destroy the entire universe.
Dethras (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Romana II) (2017)
Voice-over commentary on the BBC DVD The Robots of Death (1977, 2000)
"00. I Dottori delle serie classiche – Doctor Who Addicted"
Kill the Doctor! (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2018)
War Against The Laan (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Romana I) (2013)
"Alden Bates' NZ Doctor Who Page – older news items"
There are also novels and audio plays featuring the Fourth Doctor. Two early audio plays featuring Tom Baker voicing the Fourth Doctor date from Baker's television tenure as he had mainly declined to appear in any further audio plays since leaving the series. In 2009, however, it was announced that a new five-part series would be produced by BBC Audio (see below).
Destroy the Infinite (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2014)
Suburban Hell (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2015)
The Abandoned (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2014)
After a battle with Zygons in Scotland, Harry (having just spent an entire season with the Doctor as they tried to get back to the TARDIS) decided that taking the train was safer than the TARDIS, which the Doctor and Sarah Jane chose to try to make an appointment in London. Instead they ended up on the planet Zeta Minor (Planet of Evil), located at the far edge of the known universe. From this point on, the Doctor and Sarah Jane travelled alone.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Alden Bates' NZ Doctor Who Page – older news items". www.tetrap.com.
When John Nathan-Turner became the show's producer in Baker's last year, the Fourth Doctor was the first to sport an item of clothing adorned with question marks as a motif, in this case, above the points on his shirt collars. His overall costume was redesigned, changing the colour focus from brown to red. Designer June Hudson later revealed in an interview that Nathan-Turner had even given her permission to remove the scarf altogether if she wanted to.[8] Hudson opted to keep the scarf, as it was such an iconic part of the character.
Cook, Benjamin (July 2016). "Tom Baker: The Ultimate Interview". Doctor Who Magazine (501).
The Fourth Doctor Boxset (adventures related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2011)The Foe from the FutureThe Valley of Death
Last of the Colophon (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2014)
In his new incarnation, the Doctor is eager to leave Earth in favour of exploration, thus drawing back from continuous involvement with UNIT (with which he had worked closely as the Third Doctor). He has also grown tired of working for the Time Lords. Despite attempts to avoid them altogether, the Time Lords continue to send him on occasional missions, including an attempt to prevent the creation of the Daleks (Genesis of the Daleks), during which he also meets Davros. The Doctor travels with journalist Sarah Jane Smith, whom he had befriended prior to his regeneration, and, for a time, with UNIT Surgeon-Lieutenant Harry Sullivan.
Wolfsbane by Jacqueline Rayner (Also features the Eighth Doctor, although neither are aware of the other's actions due to the Eighth Doctor's current amnesia, the Fourth simply tying up loose ends left by the Eighth)
The Fourth Doctor's distinctive appearance and manner have made him a target for affectionate parody. The character has appeared several times on The Simpsons and twice on Robot Chicken. He also had a cameo on Futurama emerging from the stomach of a space whale, and another episode, where he is briefly seen running into the TARDIS. On The Big Bang Theory, Stuart dresses as The Fourth Doctor at a party in the episode “The Justice League Recombination”.In the computer game Hugo II, Whodunit?, the player can save the Fourth Doctor from a Dalek in return for his sonic screwdriver. He is frequently impersonated by impressionist Jon Culshaw on the radio and television series Dead Ringers, who also voiced the Doctor for the Big Finish audio The Kingmaker.Archival footage of the Fourth Doctor's first title sequence was used in the Family Guy episode "Blue Harvest" to parody hyperspace from Star Wars. In American Dad! some Whovians were shown, with several of them dressed as the Fourth Doctor. As the narrator of Little Britain, Tom Baker has himself alluded to Doctor Who. In the 24th episode of the series Epic Rap Battles of History the Tenth Doctor is in a rap battle with Doc Brown from Back to the Future when he is shot by a Dalek and regenerates into the Fourth Doctor (played by George Watsky).[15]
Timewyrm: Revelation by Paul Cornell (appears as the Doctor's memory of him in the Seventh Doctor's subconscious)
Who's 50: The 50 Doctor Who Stories to Watch Before You Die—An Unofficial Companion
The Darkness of Glass (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2015)
In Season 18, John Nathan-Turner became the series' producer. He instituted a number of changes to the show, including toning down the humour and introducing more science fiction concepts.[10] During this season the Fourth Doctor became very much subdued and, on occasion, melancholy. Baker began the season in poor health, though he eventually recovered. Both the actor and the character seemed noticeably older and tired, due to Baker's gaunt appearance and greying hair. Baker had been finding the role harder and harder to maintain and the previous season had been particularly draining on him. Many of this season's stories also had an elegiac tone, with entropy and decay being a recurring theme.
The Wave of Destruction (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2016)
The Light at the End (50th Anniversary Special; Fourth Doctor voiced by Tom Baker) (2013)
Williams' third and final year on the show is considered a high point in terms of ratings and stories for the entire series. However it proved even more difficult for Williams behind the scenes, as he found Tom Baker increasingly hard to cope with. The most watched episode ever of Doctor Who was "Part 4" of City of Death (by Fisher, Adams, and Williams) which drew 16.1 million viewers. Douglas Adams became script editor and his style can be seen in the dialogue and stories. For example, in Destiny of the Daleks (1979), Adams included a scene of the Doctor trapped under a boulder that resembles a similar scene in the second series of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. His time as script editor was beset by problems; Adams often ended up having to greatly edit and even rewrite stories. Once again, facing burnout and lack of funds, Adams eventually agreed to write the final story Shada. Production proved difficult and ended up being unfinished due to a strike at the BBC. Williams left the show, dissatisfied with having left on what he considered to be a low note.
The Crooked Man (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2014)
The Final Phase (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana I & K9) (2013)
Graeme Burk and Robert Smith Who's 50: The 50 Doctor Who Stories to Watch Before You Die—An Unofficial Companion, Toronto: ECW Press, 2013, p.148-49
The Time Vampire (adventure related by the character Leela) (2010)
^ "Doctor Who: a celebration of Tom Baker". Den of Geek. 20 July 2011.
According to both the creators of the show and Baker, the character's look was originally based on paintings and posters by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec of his friend, Aristide Bruant, a singer and nightclub owner whose trademark was a black cloak and long red scarf.[7]
Tom Baker also recorded narration, in character as the Fourth Doctor, for a 1976 audio release of Genesis of the Daleks, which was subsequently re-issued by the BBC on cassette and CD as a radio drama. Baker returned again to Doctor Who for the 1990s audio cassette releases of "lost" Doctor Who stories. For some of these stories, he is in character as the Doctor. For others, he merely provides descriptive narration.
Doctor Who and the Daleks in the Seven Keys to Doomsday
The Doctor decides to travel to Earth to scan a real Police Box as part of a plan to repair the "Chameleon Circuit", the shape-changing mechanism in the TARDIS. However, the Doctor soon spots a mysterious ghostly figure looking at him in the distance. He eventually confronts the figure, who warns him of future dangers.
The Wrath of the Iceni (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2012)
The Justice of Jalxar (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana I, Jago & Litefoot) (2013)
For their second season, Williams and Read had planned out an overarching storyline that would run through the whole of the season. With more editorial control, it was also decided that the writers would put more emphasis on elements of fantasy and humour. Holmes wrote the first story, The Ribos Operation (1978), and the writing team of Bob Baker and Dave Martin handled what would be the final story of the season, The Armageddon Factor (1979). Douglas Adams wrote the second story, The Pirate Planet (1978), while another newcomer, David Fisher, wrote the third and fourth stories. Again, difficulties began to arise when the fifth story fell through. Robert Holmes consented to writing what would become The Power of Kroll (1978–79).
Baker portrays the Fourth Doctor as a whimsical and sometimes brooding individual whose enormous personal warmth is at times tempered by his capacity for righteous anger. His initial companions were the journalist Sarah Jane Smith (Elisabeth Sladen), who had travelled with his previous incarnation, and Surgeon-Lieutenant Harry Sullivan (Ian Marter) of UNIT. His later companions were the warrior Leela (Louise Jameson), robotic dog K9 (John Leeson and David Brierly), female Time Lord Romana (Mary Tamm and Lalla Ward), teen mathematical genius Adric (Matthew Waterhouse), teen alien aristocrat Nyssa (Sarah Sutton), and Australian flight attendant Tegan Jovanka (Janet Fielding).
New script editor Christopher Bidmead found himself faced with a serious problem from the outset of his time on the show. He ultimately deemed many of the stories left to him by Adams to be unusable, being too close to the humour-driven stories of the previous season. The only one he ended up using was The Leisure Hive (1980), though only after heavily editing it. Bidmead asked a pair of writing friends to come up with what would be the second story of the season, Meglos (1980), which ended up being regarded as one of the weakest shows in the series' history up to that point.[11]
List of actors considered for the part of the Doctor
The Beast of Kravenos (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2017)
Ferril's Folly (adventure related by the character Romana I) (2011)
The early stories of the Fourth Doctor were characterised by a strong "Gothic Horror" theme. The duo of writer/script editor Robert Holmes and producer Philip Hinchcliffe consciously tapped into horror icons like mummies (Pyramids of Mars) and Frankenstein (The Brain of Morbius, Robot), vampires (State of Decay) and Jekyll and Hyde (Planet of Evil), and even transformation (The Ark in Space, The Seeds of Doom) and various themes like alien abduction. In these stories, they were given a science fiction explanation, rather than the typical magic.
The Fate of Krelos (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Leela & K9) (2015)
Phantoms of the Deep (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana I & K9) (2013)
The Haunting of Malkin Place (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Romana II) (2017)
^ Voice-over commentary on the BBC DVD The Robots of Death (1977, 2000)
Producer Philip Hinchcliffe had wardrobe create three distinct coats for Baker to wear depending on the type of story, the first being the reddish-brown blazer that he wore throughout all of his first season; the other two (full-length) coats were dark brown (for the darker horror stories) and light grey (for more action-packed stories). The Wardrobe Department also provided a brown wide-brimmed felt fedora. The rest was often picked from his own clothes (like neckties, trousers and a waistcoat). A wider, brighter-coloured scarf debuted with Baker's fourth season and a light brown coat was introduced late in his fifth season.Baker also appeared in a one-off Sherlock Holmes-inspired costume in The Talons of Weng-Chiang.
^ Graeme Burk and Robert Smith Who's 50: The 50 Doctor Who Stories to Watch Before You Die—An Unofficial Companion, Toronto: ECW Press, 2013, p.148-49
Later, the Doctor and Leela visit the Bi-Al Foundation medical centre, where they acquire the robot dog K-9 (The Invisible Enemy). While K-9 is malfunctioning, a time distortion leads the TARDIS back to contemporary rural England. While investigating the distortion, he and Leela are confronted by an ancient being that feeds on death from Time Lord history, called the Fendahl (Image of the Fendahl). Eventually, the Doctor returns to Gallifrey and declares himself Lord President, based on the election held during his previous visit. This is in fact a ploy to reveal and defeat a Vardan invasion plan, which led to the unexpected consequence of leaving Gallifrey open to attack by the Sontarans (The Invasion of Time). In the aftermath Leela and K9 decide to remain on Gallifrey. The Doctor comforts himself by producing K9 Mark II.
The Crowmarsh Experiment (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2018)
The King of Sontar (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2014)
Destiny of the Doctor: Babblesphere (adventure related by the character Romana II) (2013)
The Labyrinth of Buda Castle (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Romana II) (2016)
The Movellan Grave (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Romana II) (2017)
"BBC – Doctor Who – A Brief History of a Time Lord"
After contracting radiation poisoning from the crystals of the planet Metebelis 3, the Third Doctor makes his way back to UNIT headquarters in the TARDIS, where the Time Lord K'Anpo Rimpoche aids him in regenerating (Planet of the Spiders).
The Pursuit of History (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2016)
Timewyrm: Genesys by John Peel (appears as a holographic message for the Seventh Doctor, warning his future self of danger before his memory of the threat is lost)
^ "David Tennant named 'best Dr Who'". BBC News. 6 December 2006. Retrieved 25 February 2007.
Trail of the White Worm (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Leela) (2012)
Within the series' narrative, the Doctor is a centuries-old alien Time Lord from the planet Gallifrey who travels in time and space in the TARDIS, frequently with companions. At the end of life, the Doctor regenerates; as a result, the physical appearance and personality of the Doctor changes.
Return to Telos (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Leela & K9) (2015)
Gallery of Ghouls (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor & Romana II) (2016)
Doctor Who and the Daleks in the Seven Keys to Doomsday – a stage play that opened two weeks before Baker began his tenure as the Doctor. In the play, Trevor Martin plays an alternate version of the Fourth Doctor.
Marcello Rossi; DVD Box Set Doctor Who – I Dalek Invadono la terra. DNC Entertainment, 2011
The Exxilons (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Leela & K9) (2015)
^ "All Tom Baker Doctor Who Prime Computer Ads". YouTube. Archived from the original on 18 November 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2010.
The Trouble with Draxx (adventure related by the characters the Fourth Doctor, Romana II & K9) (2016)
Night of the Vashta Nerada (adventure related by the character the Fourth Doctor) (2017)
^ "4th doctor who New Zealand National Superannuation adverts". YouTube. Archived from the original on 18 November 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2010.
Luna Romana (adventure related by the characters Romana II & Romana III) (2014)
^ a b Szalai, George (May 31, 2012). "Charlize Theron, Michael Fassbender Attend London Premiere of Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 19, 2012. Retrieved May 31, 2012.
A monstrous, mutated Fifield returns to the Prometheus and kills several people before being killed. The captain of Prometheus, Janek, speculates that the structure was an Engineer military base that lost control of a virulent biological weapon, the dark liquid. The structure also houses a spacecraft. Weyland and the team return to the structure, accompanied by Shaw. David wakes the Engineer from stasis and speaks to him in Proto-Indo-European[5] to try to explain what Weyland wants. The Engineer responds by decapitating David and killing Weyland and his team, before reactivating the spacecraft. Shaw flees and warns Janek that the Engineer is planning to release the liquid on Earth, convincing him to stop the spacecraft. Janek and the remaining crew sacrifice themselves by ramming the Prometheus into the alien craft, ejecting the lifeboat in the process. The Engineer's disabled spacecraft crashes onto the ground, causing the death of Vickers. Shaw goes to the lifeboat and finds her alien offspring is alive and has grown to gigantic size. The Engineer forces open the lifeboat's airlock and attacks Shaw, who releases her alien offspring onto him. It thrusts an ovipositor down the Engineer's throat, subduing him. Shaw recovers David's remains and, with his help, launches another Engineer spacecraft. She intends to reach the Engineers' homeworld in an attempt to understand why they wanted to destroy humanity.
"2012 Worldwide Grosses". Box Office Mojo. 2012. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved October 3, 2012.
"Amour and The Master lead charge for London Film Critics' Circle awards"
^ Subers, Ray (September 18, 2012). "Around-the-World Roundup: 'Resident Evil' Slays With $49.6 Million Debut". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on May 13, 2013. Retrieved May 22, 2013.
Shirey, Paul (April 16, 2013). "C'mon Hollywood: Don't Give Up On The Prometheus Sequel!". JoBlo.com. Archived from the original on April 24, 2013. Retrieved May 22, 2013.
^ a b Robey, Tim (April 10, 2012). "Prometheus – preview". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on June 26, 2012. Retrieved April 10, 2012.
"'Prometheus' Writer Damon Lindelof on Why 'Vague' Is Good and the 'Sadistically Cool' Fallout From the 'Lost' Finale"
^ a b "The Blueprint for Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus'". ScripFlags.com. February 26, 2011. Archived from the original on April 26, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
"Foreign Box Office: 'Men in Black 3' Stays No. 1 Overseas With $275 Million-Plus"
"How An Unsung Screenwriter Got To Work With Ridley Scott On Prometheus, And Ended Up 'Riding A Bronco'"
^ a b Child, Ben (July 22, 2011). "Ridley Scott beams into Comic-Con to unveil Prometheus". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on July 14, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
Ebert, Roger (June 6, 2012). "PROMETHEUS (R)". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.
^ Hall, Peter (August 27, 2012). "'Prometheus' Unused Effects Shots Offer CGI vs. Make-Up Comparison". movies.com. Retrieved August 27, 2012.
^ "Noomi Rapace – Noomi Rapace Shocked Make-Up Artist With Blood And Sweat Request". Contactmusic.com. May 11, 2012. Archived from the original on April 19, 2013. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
"Damon Lindelof Explains How Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus' is Connected to the 'Alien' Films"
^ "Fox Flips for Damon Lindelof's Alien Prequel Script, Wants Natalie Portman to Star". New York. October 12, 2010. Archived from the original on October 21, 2012.
"I've Just Seen A Bunch Of Scenes From Prometheus And Want To Tell You About Them"
Shea, Chris (March 1, 2012). "A TED Talk, Circa 2023". The Wall Street Journal – Ideas Market Blog. Archived from the original on March 3, 2012. Retrieved March 2, 2012.
In North America, audience tracking showed high interest among males, but low among females.[188] In the week before the film's release, predictions were conflicted on whether Prometheus or Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted (the first family-oriented film of the summer),[189] which were released simultaneously, would reach number 1 for that weekend. On June 6, 2012, Fandango reported that with 42% of daily sales Prometheus was beating Madagascar 3. The online tracking for Prometheus surged with each additional promotional footage.[190] Prometheus was predicted to earn approximately $30 million, and Madagascar 3 around $45 million.[191] As the weekend approached, tracking suggested a $55 million debut for Madagascar 3 and $50–$55 million for Prometheus.[192] Prometheus was disadvantaged by Madagascar opening in 264 more theaters and its adult rating.[193]
McCarthy, Todd (May 30, 2012). "Prometheus: Film Review". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 13, 2012. Retrieved May 31, 2012.
"Box Office Report: 'Prometheus' Opening Ahead of 'Snow White' in the U.K."
^ Rich, Katey (April 26, 2012). "Fuel VFX deploys Aspera for global media file transfer". Broadcast Engineering. Penton Media. Archived from the original on May 12, 2012. Retrieved April 26, 2012.
Sound effects were generated with a variety of sources including Pop Rocks—a brand of popping candy—and a parrot. The glistening ice forming on the stone cylinders discovered in the film was created by applying the popping candy to materials such as wet metal and stone that was then sprayed with water to produce the "popping, cracking" sound. Sound designer Ann Scibelli's parrot was recorded over several weeks to document her variety of vocalizations which were then used as beeps, alarms and the cries of Shaw's alien offspring.[144]
Chitwood, Adam (April 26, 2012). "20th Century Fox CEO Tom Rothman Says Prometheus Rating Will Be What's Best for the Film; Assures Fans "It Will Not Be Compromised"". Collider.com. Archived from the original on July 1, 2012. Retrieved April 27, 2012.
McCabe, Joseph; Farley, Jordan; Edwards, Richard (May 2012). "Gods and Monsters / A Shaw Thing / He, Robot". SFX (222).
"Prometheus Blu-ray Trailer Promises Questions Will Be Answered; Ridley Scott Says Social Network Convinced Him to Shoot on RED"
Woerner, Meredith (June 7, 2011). "Is Prometheus anti-science? Screenwriter Damon Lindelof responds". io9. Gawker Media. Archived from the original on September 18, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
"'Prometheus' Trailer: Five Key Elements". MTV. December 22, 2011. Archived from the original on January 7, 2012. Retrieved December 22, 2011.
Ditzian, Eric (September 28, 2011). "'Prometheus' Scribe Damon Lindelof Talks Robots, Slimy Corporations & Ridley Scott Collab". MTV. Archived from the original on May 24, 2012.
Nashawaty, Chris (May 11, 2012a). "Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 1)". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
"Comic Con 2011 Report: Prometheus". Badass Digest. July 21, 2011. Archived from the original on June 8, 2012. Retrieved December 23, 2011.
Connell, Brendon (April 10, 2012). "I've Just Seen A Bunch Of Scenes From Prometheus And Want To Tell You About Them". Bleeding Cool. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved April 10, 2012.
^ Franich, Darren (July 25, 2011). "Comic-Con best and worst: Charlize Theron's naked push-ups, Nicolas Cage peeing fire, and more!". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on June 4, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
"It covers a vast expanse of time, past, present and future. It doesn't take place on Earth in any real significant way. The way we're exploring the future is away from Earth and [asking] what are people like now? What have they gone through and what are they thinking of? Space exploration in the future is going to evolve into this idea that it's not just about going out there and finding planets to build colonies. It also has this inherent idea that the further we go out, the more we learn about ourselves. The characters in this movie are preoccupied by the idea: what are our origins?"
^ Stewart, Andrew (June 10, 2012). "'Madagascar,' 'Prometheus' triumph at B.O." Variety. Archived from the original on April 20, 2021. Retrieved April 30, 2022.
"Comic-Con '11: Ridley Scott Is Shooting For Both An R-Rated & PG-13 Cut Of 'Prometheus'". Indie Wire. July 22, 2011. Archived from the original on May 31, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2012.
The snake-like alien dubbed the "Hammerpede" was given life through a mixture of CGI and practical effects, and the wires controlling the practical puppet were digitally removed. For a scene in which the Hammerpede is decapitated, the VFX team digitally animated and inserted the spontaneous growth of a replacement head.[138] During the scene in which the Hammerpede erupts from Spall's character's corpse, Scott controlled the puppet using wires. Scott did not inform Dickie about what was to occur in the scene and her screaming reaction was real. The creature's design was partially inspired by translucent sea creatures with visible arteries, veins, and organs beneath the skin's surface, and cobras. The designers gave the creature a smooth, muscular, and powerful appearance. Early designs of the "Trilobite," the tentacled offspring cut from Shaw, resembled an octopus or squid. Page redeveloped this creature as an embryo in an early state of development, with tentacles that began fused together and would gradually split, creating new tentacles, as the creature developed.[141] The practical creature was a remotely operated animatronic creation with a silicone skin.[125][141]
"Around-the-World Roundup: 'MIB 3' Leads Again, 'Prometheus' Opens Strong". Box Office Mojo. June 5, 2012. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.
^ Todd Cunningham, Todd (June 7, 2012). "Box Office Preview: 'Prometheus' vs. 'Madagascar 3' Is Too Close to Call". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on June 18, 2013. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
In July 2011, Scott said that he was filming Prometheus with both adult-oriented R and more accessible PG-13 film ratings in mind, allowing the more adult content to be cut if necessary without harming the overall presentation. Scott said he had a responsibility to 20th Century Fox to be able to present a PG-13 cut of the film if the studio demanded, allowing it to be viewed by a wider potential audience.[120] When asked about the rating, Scott said, "The question is, do you go for the PG-13, or do you go for what it should be, which is R? Financially it makes quite a difference ... essentially it's kinda R ... it's not just about blood, it's about ideas that are very stressful."[121] Scott also said that, regardless of rating, he would present the most aggressive cut of the film he could,[121] while Rothman said that Scott would not be forced to compromise the film's quality to avoid an R-rating.[122] On May 7, 2012, Fox confirmed that the film had received an R-rating and would be released without any cuts being made.[123][124] According to Scott, the scene of Shaw surgically removing her alien offspring was the significant cause of the restrictive rating, and it was suggested that removing the scene entirely would be the only way to gain a lower one.[125] A fight scene between Shaw and the Engineer was shortened because Scott decided that Shaw directly wounding the Engineer diminished his role.[126] Scott concluded work on the film in March 2012.[127]
"Previous Sierra Award Winners". Las Vegas Film Critics Society. Retrieved September 30, 2022.
Warren, Christina (April 17, 2012). "'Prometheus' Ad Shows Us the Robot We All Want (EXCLUSIVE)". Mashable. Mashable Inc. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved April 20, 2012.
Deggans, Eric (August 5, 2011). "Patrick Wilson lands on TV with new series "A Gifted Man" this fall". Tampa Bay. Archived from the original on October 15, 2012.
^ Lond, Harley (July 21, 2011). "'Prometheus' Unbound at Comic-Con: First Image Revealed, Scott Talks 'Alien'". Moviefone. Archived from the original on August 3, 2012. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
Wood, Michael (July 5, 2012). "At the Movies". London Review of Books. 34 (13): 39. Archived from the original on October 13, 2012. Retrieved September 8, 2012.
^ "Prometheus". Metacritic. Fandom, Inc. Archived from the original on April 19, 2022. Retrieved May 1, 2022.
Segers, Frank (June 3, 2012). "Foreign Box Office: 'Men in Black 3' Stays No. 1 Overseas With $275 Million-Plus". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 7, 2012. Retrieved June 3, 2012.
^ Sullivan, Kevin (November 17, 2011). "Michael Fassbender's 'Prometheus' Character Inspired By ... Greg Louganis?". MTV Movies Blog. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
^ a b Mottram, James (September 3, 2010). "Ridley Scott: 'I'm doing pretty good, if you think about it'". The Independent. London. Archived from the original on November 11, 2012.
Prometheus contains approximately 1,300 digital effect shots.[114] The main effects studio was Moving Picture Company (MPC), which produced 420 of the shots.[119] Several other studios, including Weta Digital,[33] Fuel VFX,[145] Rising Sun Pictures, Luma Pictures, Lola Visual Effects, and Hammerhead Productions, also produced effects shots for the film.[146]
McClintock, Pamela (June 7, 2012). "Box Office Preview: 'Madagascar 3' Likely to Beat 'Prometheus' For No. 1 in U.S." The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
"Box Office Report: 'Madagascar 3' No. 1 With $60.4 Mil, 'Prometheus' Strong No. 2 With $50 Mil"
Miller, Julie (July 22, 2011). "Naked Push-Ups, Time Warps and 7 Other Revelations About Ridley Scott's Prometheus". Movieline. Archived from the original on June 11, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
^ a b "AVP Killed Alien 5". IGN. February 8, 2006. Archived from the original on August 9, 2009. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
^ Abramovitch, Seth (October 17, 2012). "'Ted' Wins Big at 41st THR Key Art Awards". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 18, 2012. Retrieved October 18, 2012.
^ Roush, George (March 7, 2012). "Exclusive: AMC Theatres, 20th Century Fox & Livestream Present LIVE Q&A With Director Ridley Scott and Premiere Of New Prometheus Trailer!". AMC Theatres. Archived from the original on March 9, 2012. Retrieved March 7, 2012.
^ Plumb, Ali (May 16, 2012). "Rapace Stars In New Prometheus Viral". Empire. Archived from the original on June 20, 2013. Retrieved May 16, 2012.
"Did Ridley Scott Just Ruin The Mystery Of 'Prometheus' & Kill Its Sequel? (Page 1)"
"Danny McBride to Join Michael Fassbender in Ridley Scott's 'Alien: Covenant' (Exclusive)"
"WonderCon 2012: Ridley Scott Talks 'Prometheus' As Extended Trailer Debuts (Video)"
^ Finke, Nikki (June 2, 2012). "'Snow White' $56.1M Domestic Breaks Box Office Slump: $95.4M Global; 'Prometheus' On Fire In UK Ahead Of Domestic Opening; 'Marvel's The Avengers #3 Film Of All Time". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on June 13, 2012. Retrieved June 3, 2012.
^ Graser, Marc (May 17, 2012). "Coors, Amazon, Verizon ride with 'Prometheus'". Variety. PMC. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved May 17, 2012.
Lussier, Germain (July 22, 2011). "Damon Lindelof Discusses The Secrecy Of 'Prometheus'". SlasherFilm.com. Archived from the original on July 23, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
McClintock, Pamela (August 1, 2012). "Summer's Studio Smackdown: From 'Men in Black 3' to 'Prometheus,' Which Franchises Will Get Another Chapter". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 3, 2012. Retrieved August 1, 2012.
"Ridley Scott shooting movie by Hekla in Iceland". IceNews. July 11, 2011. Archived from the original on February 11, 2012. Retrieved March 24, 2012.
"'Prometheus' Ad Touts Michael Fassbender as Weyland Industries Robot David (Video)"
^ "Language Log » Proto-Indo-European in Prometheus?". Retrieved April 22, 2020.
^ Mohamed, Nurie (August 3, 2012). "Designing the Perfect Engineer for Prometheus". Wired. Retrieved August 4, 2012.
"Charlize Theron Explains Her Prometheus Character". December 23, 2011. Archived from the original on May 25, 2012. Retrieved June 16, 2012.
The Prometheus lands on the barren, mountainous surface near a large, artificial structure, which the team explores. Inside, they find stone cylinders, a monolithic statue of a humanoid head, and the decapitated corpse of a large alien, thought to be an Engineer; Shaw recovers its head. The crew finds other bodies, leading them to surmise that the species is extinct. Crew members Millburn and Fifield grow uncomfortable with the discoveries and attempt to return to Prometheus, but get lost in the structure. The expedition is cut short when a storm forces the crew to return to the ship. David secretly takes a cylinder with him, while the remaining ones begin leaking a dark liquid. In the ship's lab, the Engineer's DNA is found to match that of humans. David investigates the cylinder and the liquid inside. He intentionally taints a drink with the liquid and gives it to the unsuspecting Holloway, who had stated he would do anything for answers. Shortly after, Shaw and Holloway have sex.
^ a b Langshaw, Mark (May 9, 2012). "'Prometheus' gets 15 certificate in UK, passed uncut". Digital Spy. Hearst Corporation. Archived from the original on June 11, 2012. Retrieved May 9, 2012.
"Prometheus". Cinefex. May 16, 2012. Archived from the original on June 1, 2012. Retrieved May 24, 2012.
Kitchener, Shaun (May 5, 2017). "Alien Covenant reviews: First reactions from premiere – it's 'HORRIFIC, nightmarish'". Daily Express. Archived from the original on June 13, 2017. Retrieved June 13, 2017.
McCabe, Maisie (April 27, 2012). "Ridley Scott's Prometheus to air first synchronised ad on Zeebox". Mediaweek. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved April 29, 2012.
Prometheus was considered a financial success overall. After a strong start in North America, the film failed to meet the studio's expectations, but it continued to perform strongly in other territories until the end of its theatrical run.[194][195][196][197][198] Prometheus earned $126.4 million (31.4%) in North America and $276.9 million (68.6%) elsewhere for a worldwide total of $403.4 million,[3] making it the 18th highest-grossing film of 2012,[199] and at its peak it was the 155th highest-grossing film worldwide unadjusted for inflation.[200]
^ Oliver, Glen (May 15, 2012). "Ample Sample Clips From Prometheus' Score Are Now Online!!". Ain't It Cool News. Archived from the original on May 18, 2012. Retrieved May 16, 2012.
Aboard the ship, Yates gave the characters their own distinct looks. Theron is dressed in an ice-silver, silk mohair suit. Yates said, "[Theron] is the ice queen. It was always our vision to make her look as sculptural as possible." Fassbender's David is dressed similarly to other crew members, but his outfit was given finer lines to produce a more linear appearance. To create a casual, relaxed appearance, Marshall-Green's Holloway was dressed in hoodies, fisherman pants, and flip-flops, while Elba wore a canvas-greased jacket to represent his long career at the helm of a ship.[105]
"Collection of 'Prometheus' Set Photos Includes One Character Cut From Final Edit"
Lussier, Germain (August 27, 2012). "Three CGI Images From An Alternate Version of 'Prometheus' Action Scene". slashfilm.com. Retrieved August 27, 2012.
^ "'Prometheus' Trailer: Five Key Elements". MTV. December 22, 2011. Archived from the original on January 7, 2012. Retrieved December 22, 2011.
Sancton, Julian (March 22, 2012). "TED Goes to the Movies With 'Prometheus' Promotion". Bloomberg Businessweek. Bloomberg L.P. Archived from the original on March 24, 2012. Retrieved March 22, 2012.
^ "Alien Prequel Stalls AS Scott Fights Fox". Sky Movies. BSkyB. April 27, 2012. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved April 27, 2012.
^ "Prometheus (2012) - International Box Office Results". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on June 22, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
At the May 2012 Digital Hollywood conference, Lindelof said that the videos originated from the question of the film's status as an Alien prequel. It was decided that creating videos with the film's stars would generate more interest than any commentary about its connection to the Alien films. He also said that the videos needed to be cool enough to justify their existence, but not so important that their absence from the final film would be an issue for audiences.[181]
"3ality Technica speaks on Prometheus: 'the best experience possible with 3D'"
^ Lesnick, Silas (September 21, 2010). "Arthur Max on Creating Robin Hood's England". CraveOnline. Archived from the original on September 26, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
McMillan, Graeme (August 20, 2014). "'Prometheus: Fire and Stone' Trailer Teases Comic Crossover With 'Aliens,' 'Predator'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 7, 2015. Retrieved February 24, 2015.
McClintock, Pamela (June 10, 2012). "Box Office Report: 'Madagascar 3' No. 1 With $60.4 Mil, 'Prometheus' Strong No. 2 With $50 Mil". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 10, 2012.
Samuel, Patrick (May 31, 2012). "Marc Streitenfeld". Static Mass Emporium. Archived from the original on June 6, 2012. Retrieved June 2, 2012.
"Prometheus: Building the Greatest Alien Playground with Real Sets, Props and Stunts"
"'Alien: Covenant' Crews Up: 'Empire''s Jussie Smollett, Amy Seimetz, Carmen Ejogo & More Join Cast"
Pinkerton, Nick (June 6, 2012). "Prometheus: The Tree of Death". The Village Voice. Archived from the original on June 25, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.
^ a b "Ridley Scott wants to make two 'Alien' prequels". Los Angeles Times. June 15, 2010. Archived from the original on July 1, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
"'Prometheus': Noomi Rapace says she gutted out a 'psychological meltdown'". Los Angeles Times. June 9, 2012. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 16, 2012.
^ Miller, Julie (July 22, 2011). "Naked Push-Ups, Time Warps and 7 Other Revelations About Ridley Scott's Prometheus". Movieline. Archived from the original on June 11, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
Topel, Fred (December 14, 2011). "Noomi Rapace on 'Sherlock,' 'Prometheus' and 'Dragon Tattoo'". CraveOnline. Archived from the original on December 28, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
"Ridley Scott Talks Prometheus and the Blade Runner Sequel; Says Prometheus Blu-ray Will Have 20 to 30 Min of Deleted Scenes"
Jagernauth, Kevin (June 14, 2012). "Did Ridley Scott Just Ruin The Mystery Of 'Prometheus' & Kill Its Sequel? (Page 1)". Indie Wire. Archived from the original on May 24, 2013. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
^ Sweney, Mark (May 8, 2012). "Channel 4 under Ofcom investigation over Prometheus exclusive". The Guardian. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved May 8, 2012.
Ng, Philiana (June 14, 2012). "Teen Choice Awards 2012: 'Breaking Dawn,' 'Snow White' Lead Second Wave of Nominees". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 14, 2012.
Knegt, Peter (December 12, 2012). "'Les Miserables' Leads Phoenix Film Critics Nominations". IndieWire. Retrieved October 1, 2022.
Langshaw, Mark (April 26, 2012). "'Prometheus' trailer to get live Twitter response during 'Homeland'". Digital Spy. Hearst Corporation. Archived from the original on June 30, 2012. Retrieved April 29, 2012.
^ English, Paul (April 14, 2012). "Rising Scots actor Emun Elliott reveals his excitement at starring in new Irvine Welsh film Filth". Daily Record. Archived from the original on March 9, 2014. Retrieved May 4, 2012.
^ "Alien: Covenant". Metacritic. Fandom, Inc. Archived from the original on November 26, 2015. Retrieved May 1, 2022.
"'Snow White' $56.1M Domestic Breaks Box Office Slump: $95.4M Global; 'Prometheus' On Fire In UK Ahead Of Domestic Opening; 'Marvel's The Avengers #3 Film Of All Time"
Goldberg, Matt (February 28, 2012). "Watch Prometheus' Peter Weyland (Guy Pearce) Give a TED Talk from 2023". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved February 28, 2012.
^ McCabe, Maisie (April 27, 2012). "Ridley Scott's Prometheus to air first synchronised ad on Zeebox". Mediaweek. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved April 29, 2012.
"Alien: Covenant". Metacritic. Fandom, Inc. Archived from the original on November 26, 2015. Retrieved May 1, 2022.
"Watch Prometheus' Peter Weyland (Guy Pearce) Give a TED Talk from 2023"
^ Knegt, Peter (December 12, 2012). "'Les Miserables' Leads Phoenix Film Critics Nominations". IndieWire. Retrieved October 1, 2022.
Chitwood, Adam (September 28, 2012). "Prometheus Blu-ray Trailer Promises Questions Will Be Answered; Ridley Scott Says Social Network Convinced Him to Shoot on RED". Collider.com. Archived from the original on September 29, 2012. Retrieved September 28, 2012.
"Writing a TEDTalk from the future: Q&A with Damon Lindelof"
^ Kilday, Gregg (December 3, 2012). "Satellite Awards Nominates 10 Films for Best Motion Picture". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on December 7, 2012. Retrieved December 5, 2012.
Subers, Ray (June 10, 2012). "Weekend Report: 'Madagascar' Breaks Out, 'Prometheus' Catches Fire". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
James Cameron said: "I enjoyed Prometheus. I thought it was great. I thought it was Ridley returning to science fiction with gusto, with great tactical performance, beautiful photography, great native 3D. There might have been a few things that I would have done differently, but that's not the point—you could say that about any movie."[237] However, despite his praise, he also said he thought it "didn't add up logically."[238]
^ Wilkins, Alasdair (July 12, 2011). "Ridley Scott reveals why he's taking Prometheus to Iceland. Plus new set photos for The Dark Knight Rises and Man of Steel!". io9. Gawker Media. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved March 24, 2012.
^ Shirey, Paul (April 16, 2013). "C'mon Hollywood: Don't Give Up On The Prometheus Sequel!". JoBlo.com. Archived from the original on April 24, 2013. Retrieved May 22, 2013.
Prometheus entered production in April 2010, with extensive design phases during which the technology and creatures that the film required were developed. Principal photography began in March 2011, and concluded in October 2011,[4] with an estimated $120–130 million budget. The project was shot using 3D cameras throughout, almost entirely on practical sets, and on location in England, Iceland, Scotland, Jordan and Spain. It was promoted with a marketing campaign that included viral activities on the web. Three videos featuring the film's leading actors in character, which expanded on elements of the fictional universe, were released and met with a generally positive reception and awards.
^ McCarthy, Todd (May 30, 2012). "Prometheus: Film Review". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 13, 2012. Retrieved May 31, 2012.
^ "Holy crap! Quint chats Alien, the upcoming Alien Prequels and 3D with Sir Ridley Scott!". Ain't It Cool News. June 15, 2010. Archived from the original on October 11, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
^ Anders, Charlie Jane (March 27, 2013). "Is the Prometheus sequel stalled out just because nobody knows how to follow that ending?". io9. Gawker Media. Archived from the original on May 18, 2013. Retrieved May 22, 2013.
^ Kemp, Stuart (May 8, 2012). "Ofcom Launches U.K. 'Prometheus' Trailer Probe". Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on May 11, 2012. Retrieved May 8, 2012.
The creation of life from the disintegration of an Engineer in the film's opening scene was created by WETA Digital. The scene was difficult to produce because it had to convey the story of the Engineer's DNA breaking apart, reforming and recombining into Earth DNA in a limited span of time. The team focused on making the DNA stages distinct to convey its changing nature. Scott requested the studio to focus on the destruction occurring within the Engineer. A light color scheme was used for the Engineer's DNA and decayed fish spines were used as an image reference, while the infected DNA had a melted appearance. To find methods of depicting the DNA destruction, the team carved vein-like structures from silicone and pumped black ink and oils into them while filming the changes occurring over an extended period of time.[147]
Arnold, Ben (December 21, 2012). "Prometheus writer won't be penning sequel". Yahoo!. Archived from the original on May 23, 2013. Retrieved May 22, 2013.
^ a b Wales, George (April 10, 2012). "Prometheus footage reveal report: details and reaction". Total Film. Future plc. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved April 10, 2012.
Total Film's Jonathan Crocker wrote that the plot successfully integrated itself with Alien's mythology while offering its own original ideas.[229] Entertainment Weekly's Lisa Schwarzbaum was positive towards the cast, particularly Rapace, and the cinematography.[230] Salon's Andrew O'Hehir wrote that the film was "somber, spectacular and ponderous," but that the "portentousness and grandiosity ... is at once the film's great strength and great weakness" and criticized the characters for lacking common sense. O'Hehir also mentioned Wolski's cinematography and Max's production design.[231] The New York Times' A. O. Scott criticized the story as weak, and argued that the narrative's twists and reversals undermine its "lofty, mindblowing potential." He said the film has no revelations, just "bits of momentarily surprising information bereft of meaning or resonance," and that Rapace is a "fine heroine, vulnerable and determined."[232]
"'Prometheus' Scribe Damon Lindelof Talks Robots, Slimy Corporations & Ridley Scott Collab"
^ Heynman, Jessie (September 7, 2012). "James Cameron On Kate Winslet's 'Titanic' Comments: 'Get Over It'". news.moviefone.com. Archived from the original on September 8, 2012. Retrieved October 7, 2012.
^ Fleming, Michael (July 30, 2009). "'Alien' prequel takes off". Variety. Archived from the original on October 13, 2012. Retrieved April 27, 2012.
^ Hammond, Pete (December 11, 2012). "'Lincoln', 'Les Miserables', 'Silver Linings' Top List Of Nominees For 18th Annual Critics Choice Movie Awards". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 12, 2012. Retrieved December 11, 2012.
^ McClintock, Pamela (August 1, 2012). "Summer's Studio Smackdown: From 'Men in Black 3' to 'Prometheus,' Which Franchises Will Get Another Chapter". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 3, 2012. Retrieved August 1, 2012.
^ a b Nashawaty, Chris (May 11, 2012b). "Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 2)". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
Prometheus was released on June 1, 2012, in the United Kingdom and on June 8, 2012, in North America. The film earned generally positive reviews, receiving praise for the designs, production values and cast performances, but was criticized for its uneven script and unresolved plot points. The film grossed over $403 million worldwide. A sequel, Alien: Covenant, was released in May 2017, tying the film permanently to the Alien franchise and making it the fifth installment.
^ a b Kit, Borys (March 17, 2011). "WonderCon 2012: Ridley Scott Talks 'Prometheus' As Extended Trailer Debuts (Video)". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on May 1, 2012. Retrieved March 18, 2012.
Free, Erin; Mottram, James; Pringle, Gill (April 2012). "Inner Space". Filmink (906).
Ho, Lawrence K (April 8, 2011). "'Prometheus': Michael Fassbender on Ridley Scott's 'breathtaking' project". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012.
^ a b McClintock, Pamela (January 26, 2011). "Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus' Gets High-Profile Summer Release Date". The Hollywood Reporter. PMC. Archived from the original on November 2, 2012.
^ Barkman, Adam; Barkman, Ashley; Kang, Nancy, eds. (2013). The Culture and Philosophy of Ridley Scott. Lexington Books. pp. 121–142. ISBN 978-0-7391-7872-0.
Subers, Ray (August 28, 2012). "Around-the-World Roundup: 'Expendables 2' Flexes Muscles Overseas". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on August 31, 2012. Retrieved August 31, 2012.
^ a b Finke, Nikki (January 14, 2011). "Ridley Scott Directing 'Prometheus' For Fox; Noomi Rapace Locked While Angelina Jolie And Charlize Theron Circling; Damon Lindelof Scripted With Scott From 'Alien' DNA". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on May 21, 2012.
"FX Acquires 'Prometheus' TV Rights". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. June 11, 2012. Archived from the original on June 21, 2012. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
"El equipo de Ridley Scott trabaja ya en el foso de Ciudad de la Luz"
Hart, Hugh (June 15, 2012). "Origin of the Creepy Species, Prometheus-Style". Wired. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved June 16, 2012.
^ "Ridley Scott's Sci-Fi Film "Prometheus" Shot on RED Epic Cameras". camerarentalz.com. Archived from the original on June 23, 2012.
^ Subers, Ray (June 7, 2012). "Forecast: 'Prometheus,' 'Madagascar 3' Go Head-to-Head This Weekend". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
Nashawaty, Chris (December 2, 2011). "Ridley Scott Returns to Space". Entertainment Weekly. No. 1183.
"Watch Prometheus in 3D or miss out says Aerial Stereographer"
^ Chitwood, Adam (September 1, 2017). "'Alien: Covenant': 38 Things We Learned from Ridley Scott's Audio Commentary". Collider.com. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ a b c d e f Galloway, Stephen (May 16, 2012). "Return of the 'Alien' Mind (Page 2)". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on May 20, 2012. Retrieved April 28, 2013.
"The 13th Annual Golden Trailer Awards". Golden Trailer Awards. 2012. Archived from the original on July 21, 2012. Retrieved June 2, 2012.
^ "Sean Harris". Troika. Archived from the original on July 28, 2017. Retrieved October 29, 2011.
^ Levy, Emanuel (2012). "Prometheus". Emanuellevy.com. Archived from the original on June 4, 2012. Retrieved June 5, 2012.
^ a b c Roxborough, Scott (June 28, 2011). "Ridley Scott, Michael Fassbender, Noomi Rapace Tease 'Prometheus' at CineEurope". Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on May 1, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
^ a b c Lillie, Ben (February 28, 2012). "Writing a TEDTalk from the future: Q&A with Damon Lindelof". TED. Sapling Foundation. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved February 28, 2012.
^ a b Burns, Chris (April 18, 2012). "3ality Technica speaks on Prometheus: 'the best experience possible with 3D'". SlashGear. Archived from the original on April 22, 2012. Retrieved April 27, 2012.
"Ridley Scott's Prometheus to air first synchronised ad on Zeebox"
^ "Previous Sierra Award Winners". Las Vegas Film Critics Society. Retrieved September 30, 2022.
"Rising Scots actor Emun Elliott reveals his excitement at starring in new Irvine Welsh film Filth"
"Noomie Rapace (The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo) For Alien Prequel?"
^ Chitwood, Adam (September 7, 2012). "Prometheus Viral Continues? Mysterious New Clip Featuring Idris Elba Surfaces". Collider.com. Archived from the original on September 9, 2012. Retrieved September 9, 2012.
^ Zeitchik, Steven (May 7, 2012). "'R rating for 'Prometheus': Will it hurt the film commercially?". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved May 8, 2012.
^ "17th Annual ADG Awards Nominations Announced". Art Directors Guild. January 2, 2013. Archived from the original on January 8, 2013. Retrieved January 3, 2013.
Leyland, Matthew (June 2012). "Origin of the Species". Total Film (193).
"Prometheus Viral Campaign Continues with Android-Unboxing Video from Weyland Corp Featuring Michael Fassbender"
^ Weintraub, Steve (June 10, 2012). "Ridley Scott Talks Prometheus and the Blade Runner Sequel; Says Prometheus Blu-ray Will Have 20 to 30 Min of Deleted Scenes". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
^ Subers, Ray (July 6, 2012). "Five $50 Million Debuts Propel June Business". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on May 11, 2013. Retrieved May 22, 2013.
Schwarzbaum, Lisa (June 6, 2012). "Prometheus (2012)". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved June 6, 2012.
Gettell, Oliver (June 8, 2012). "'Prometheus' comes up short of 'Alien' aspirations, critics say". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on January 29, 2013. Retrieved May 24, 2013.
Inside the structure, a snake-like creature kills Millburn and sprays a corrosive fluid that melts Fifield's helmet. Fifield falls face-first into a puddle of dark liquid. When the crew returns, they find Millburn's corpse. David separately discovers a control room containing a surviving Engineer in stasis and a holographic star map highlighting Earth. Meanwhile, Holloway sickens rapidly. He is rushed back to Prometheus, but mission-director Meredith Vickers refuses to let him aboard. At his urging, she burns him to death with a flamethrower. Later, a medical scan reveals that Shaw, despite being previously infertile, is now in advanced pregnancy. Fearing the worst, she uses an automated surgery table to extract a squid-like creature from her abdomen. Shaw then discovers that Weyland has been in stasis aboard Prometheus. He explains that he wants to ask the Engineers how to not die from old age. Vickers addresses him as "Father".
Scott avoided using green screens unless necessary. Instead, he used various items so the actors would know where they should be looking in any particular scene on the practical sets where CGI elements would be inserted in post-production.[114] Rapace said that green screens were used fewer than six times during filming.[92] The production used five 3ality Technical Atom 3D rigs, four of which were configured with Red Epic 3D cameras set on camera dollies and tripods, which were continuously in use during filming. The fifth rig used an Epic camera as a steadicam, which was used only occasionally.[98][115]
"Sean Harris". Troika. Archived from the original on July 28, 2017. Retrieved October 29, 2011.
^ Chang, Justin (May 30, 2012). "Prometheus". Variety. PMC. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved June 1, 2012.
^ Ng, Philiana (June 14, 2012). "Teen Choice Awards 2012: 'Breaking Dawn,' 'Snow White' Lead Second Wave of Nominees". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 14, 2012.
^ "Prometheus". Cinefex. May 16, 2012. Archived from the original on June 1, 2012. Retrieved May 24, 2012.
^ Eisenberg, Eric (March 6, 2012). "Prometheus Viral Reveals Stunning New Image". Cinema Blend. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved March 7, 2012.
^ Gutierrez, Ezequiel (July 22, 2011). "20th Century Fox Comic Con Panel and Footage Description". Hey U Guys. Archived from the original on July 13, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
^ Ruiz Coll, M. A. (August 31, 2011). "Ridley Scott rueda en Alicante "Prometheus"" (in Spanish). ABC. Archived from the original on December 28, 2013. Retrieved May 9, 2013.
^ a b c d Gilchrist, Todd (June 17, 2012). "'Prometheus' Writer Damon Lindelof on Why 'Vague' Is Good and the 'Sadistically Cool' Fallout From the 'Lost' Finale". Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on November 25, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
Chitwood, Adam (March 17, 2012). "Prometheus Viral Campaign Continues with Android-Unboxing Video from Weyland Corp Featuring Michael Fassbender". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 11, 2012. Retrieved March 17, 2012.
^ Gammie, Joseph (May 6, 2012). "Alien: The monster returns?". The Independent. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
"Language Log » Proto-Indo-European in Prometheus?". Retrieved April 22, 2020.
^ "Comic-Con 2011: Damon Lindelof & Charlize Theron Talk 'Prometheus' in 3D". Screen Rant. July 21, 2011. Archived from the original on June 8, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2011.
"'Prometheus: Fire and Stone' Trailer Teases Comic Crossover With 'Aliens,' 'Predator'"
Sciretta, Peter (June 8, 2012). "Interview: Michael Fassbender Talks 'Prometheus'". /Film. Archived from the original on June 13, 2012. Retrieved June 9, 2012.
Galloway, Stephen (May 16, 2012). "Return of the 'Alien' Mind (Page 2)". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on May 20, 2012. Retrieved April 28, 2013.
"Guy Pearce Talks Making Prometheus, Viral Marketing, Working for Ridley Scott, and Briefly Mentions Iron Man 3"
^ Flynn, Richard (May 24, 2012). "London's Leicester Square re-opens after 18 month renovation". Screen International. Archived from the original on June 27, 2012. Retrieved May 24, 2012.
^ Fleming, Mike (October 7, 2010). "Next Hot Female Role: Noomi Rapace In Hunt For Ridley Scott's 3D 'Alien' Prequel". Deadline New York. Archived from the original on July 20, 2012.
^ Connell, Brendon (April 10, 2012). "I've Just Seen A Bunch Of Scenes From Prometheus And Want To Tell You About Them". Bleeding Cool. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved April 10, 2012.
^ Weintraub, Steve (May 31, 2012). "Guy Pearce Talks Making Prometheus, Viral Marketing, Working for Ridley Scott, and Briefly Mentions Iron Man 3". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 3, 2012. Retrieved June 2, 2012.
Subers, Ray (July 6, 2012). "Five $50 Million Debuts Propel June Business". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on May 11, 2013. Retrieved May 22, 2013.
Olson, Parmy (May 3, 2012). "How An Unsung Screenwriter Got To Work With Ridley Scott On Prometheus, And Ended Up 'Riding A Bronco'". Forbes. Archived from the original on May 3, 2012. Retrieved May 3, 2012.
"Prometheus Moves to Iceland for Beginning of Time". Coming Soon. July 11, 2011. Archived from the original on April 6, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2011.
^ Sullivan, Kevin P. (June 19, 2012). "'Prometheus' FX Supervisor Gives Inside Look At First Scene". MTV. Archived from the original on June 23, 2012.
^ a b "Watch Prometheus in 3D or miss out says Aerial Stereographer". 3D Focus. May 30, 2012. Archived from the original on June 4, 2012. Retrieved June 1, 2012.
Lillie, Ben (February 28, 2012). "Writing a TEDTalk from the future: Q&A with Damon Lindelof". TED. Sapling Foundation. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved February 28, 2012.
In December 2010, it was reported that the film would be called Paradise,[18] named after John Milton's poem Paradise Lost, but Scott considered that this would convey too much information about the film. Fox CEO Thomas Rothman suggested Prometheus, which was confirmed as the title in January 2011.[55][83] A release date was scheduled for March 9, 2012, but weeks later the release was postponed until June 8, 2012.[83][84] With the name confirmed, the production team began to publicly distance the film from its Alien origins, and were deliberately vague about the connection between the films, believing it would build audience anticipation for Prometheus.[80] Scott stated that "while Alien was indeed the jumping-off point for this project, out of the creative process evolved a new, grand mythology and universe in which this original story takes place. The keen fan will recognize strands of Alien's DNA, so to speak, but the ideas tackled in this film are unique, large and provocative."[85] In June 2011, Scott and Lindelof confirmed that Prometheus takes place in the same universe as the events of the Alien series.[86][87] In July 2011, Scott stated that "by the end of the third act you start to realize there's a DNA of the very first Alien, but none of the subsequent [films]."[74]
"'Alien: Covenant': 38 Things We Learned from Ridley Scott's Audio Commentary"
In the lifeboat, an alien creature bursts out of the Engineer's chest.
^ Krinsky, Tamara (May 8, 2012). "'Lost' Co-Creator Talks 'Prometheus' Viral Videos, Twitter". Tubefilter. Archived from the original on May 13, 2012. Retrieved May 10, 2012.
^ a b "Prometheus (2012) - IMDb". IMDb. Retrieved November 6, 2022.
^ Lamar, Cyriaque (July 12, 2011). "An abandoned French subway station was turned into the set of Prometheus". io9. Gawker Media. Archived from the original on June 11, 2012. Retrieved May 18, 2012.
Salisbury, Mark (2012). Prometheus: The Art of the Film (Film Tie in) (Hardcover). ISBN 978-1781161098.
Fleming, Michael (July 30, 2009). "'Alien' prequel takes off". Variety. Archived from the original on October 13, 2012. Retrieved April 27, 2012.
Ridley Scott (Director) (2003). Alien (DVD (audio commentary track)). 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment, Inc. It's a tough one, particularly with the success of four. I think if you close the lid it should be the end of the first chapter, and I think very simply what no one's done is simply gone back to re-visit 'what was it?' No one's ever said 'who's the space jockey?' He wasn't an Alien. What was that battleship? Is it a battleship? Is it an aircraft carrier? Is it a bio-mechanoid weapon carrier? ... Why did it land? Did it crash-land, or did it settle there because it had engine trouble? ... And how long ago? 'Cause those eggs would sit there.
Goldberg, Matt (July 11, 2011). "Prometheus Shooting Moves to Iceland for "the Beginning of Time"". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 6, 2012. Retrieved March 24, 2012.
"'Prometheus' To Get IMAX 3D Release". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. March 8, 2012. Archived from the original on June 23, 2012. Retrieved March 8, 2012.
Katz, Josh (June 1, 2012). "Prometheus Blu-ray, Pre-Order and Get One Movie Ticket". Blu-ray.com. Archived from the original on June 3, 2012. Retrieved June 3, 2012.
^ Squires, John (December 31, 2015). "Alien: Covenant Set Ten Years After Prometheus". Deadline Hollywood. Dread Central. Archived from the original on January 3, 2016. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ Ebert, Roger (December 27, 2012). "EBERT'S TOP MOVIES OF 2012". rogerebert.com. Archived from the original on April 8, 2016. Retrieved November 3, 2013.
"Prometheus [Soundtrack]". Amazon UK. May 10, 2012. Archived from the original on June 10, 2013. Retrieved May 27, 2012.
Mohamed, Nurie (August 3, 2012). "Designing the Perfect Engineer for Prometheus". Wired. Retrieved August 4, 2012.
"Did Ridley Scott Just Ruin The Mystery Of 'Prometheus' & Kill Its Sequel? (Page 2)"
"Damon Lindelof Explains How Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus' is Connected to the 'Alien' Films". /Film. June 28, 2011. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved February 29, 2012.
"Noomie Rapace (The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo) For Alien Prequel?". Script Flags. August 20, 2010. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2011.
Todd Cunningham, Todd (June 7, 2012). "Box Office Preview: 'Prometheus' vs. 'Madagascar 3' Is Too Close to Call". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on June 18, 2013. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
Artificial intelligence, a unifying theme throughout Scott's career as a director, is particularly evident in Prometheus, primarily through the android David.[59] David is like humans but does not want to be like them, eschewing a common theme in "robotic storytelling" such as in Blade Runner. David is created in the image of humanity, and while the human crew of the Prometheus ship searches for their creators expecting answers, David exists among his human creators yet is unimpressed; he questions his creators about why they are seeking their own.[56][60] Lindelof described the ship as a prison for David.[56] At the conclusion of the film, David's creator (Weyland) is dead and his fundamental programming will end without someone to serve. Lindelof explained that David's programming becomes unclear and that he could be programmed by Shaw or his own sense of curiosity. Following Weyland's death, David is left with Shaw, and is sincere and interested in following her, partly out of survival and partly out of curiosity.[61]
"Ridley Scott wants to make two 'Alien' prequels". Los Angeles Times. June 15, 2010. Archived from the original on July 1, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
Yamato, Jen (June 12, 2012). "Damon Lindelof on Prometheus's Ending and a Handy, Spoilery Alien Infographic". Archived from the original on January 20, 2013. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
^ Bradshaw, Peter (May 30, 2012). "Prometheus – review". The Guardian. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved May 31, 2012.
"'Prometheus' Writer Damon Lindelof on Rumored Sequel 'Paradise' and Whether He's the Man to Write It"
Variety film critic Justin Chang wrote that the film's narrative structure was unable to handle the philosophical dimension of the plot, and that Prometheus was lazily deferring key plot points under the presumption that a sequel would be made.[233] The Guardian's Peter Bradshaw wrote that Prometheus was "more grandiose, more elaborate—but less interesting" than Alien, and lacked the latter's "central killer punch."[234] Ian Nathan of Empire magazine was unimpressed by Rapace—whom he described as an unconvincing lead—and said that with "a lack of suspense, threadbare characters, and a very poor script, the stunning visuals, gloopy madness, and sterling Fassbenderiness can't prevent Prometheus feeling like Alien's poor relation."[235] The Village Voice's Nick Pinkerton wrote that the film is "prone to shallow ponderousness," and that Scott "can still mimic the appearance of an epic, noble, important movie—but the appearance is all." He criticized Rapace and Marshall-Green for failing to instill interest in their characters' relationship, but added: "There are a few set pieces here that will find a place of honor among aficionados of body horror and all things clammy and viscous."[236]
Prometheus was released in 15 markets between May 30 and June 1, 2012—about a week before its North American release. The earlier start in these countries was timed to avoid competition with the start of the 2012 UEFA European Football Championship the following week. On its opening day, which varies depending on the country, it earned $3.39 million in the United Kingdom,[201] $2.2 million in Russia,[202] and $1.5 million in France.[185] The film earned $34.8 million during its opening weekend from 4,695 theaters in 15 markets, and debuted at number 1 in 14 of them, with an average of $7,461 per theater. Its overall rank for the weekend was third behind Men in Black 3 and Snow White & the Huntsman.[203] Its opening weekends in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Malta ($10.1 million), Russia and the CIS ($9.80 million), and France and the Maghreb region ($6.68 million) represented its largest takings.[204][205] By June 8, the film had opened in a total of 50 markets, and was also successful during its opening weekends in Australia ($7.2 million) and South Korea ($4.2 million).[206] During its late August opening in Japan, the film earned $9.6 million.[207]
^ "Rafe Spall". Troika. Archived from the original on March 20, 2017. Retrieved October 29, 2011.
"Emun Elliott". United Agents. Archived from the original on May 3, 2012. Retrieved May 4, 2012.
"Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 2)"
Lieberman, David (September 7, 2012). "Fox Hopes To Boost Movie Downloads By Offering Titles Ahead Of Discs". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on September 9, 2012. Retrieved September 8, 2012.
"20th Century Fox CEO Tom Rothman Says Prometheus Rating Will Be What's Best for the Film; Assures Fans "It Will Not Be Compromised""
Other cast members include Kate Dickie as the ship's medic, Ford;[47] Emun Elliott and Benedict Wong as, respectively, ship pilots Chance and Ravel;[49][50] and Patrick Wilson as Shaw's father.[51] Ian Whyte and Daniel James portray Engineers.[52]
^ Subers, Ray (June 10, 2012). "Weekend Report: 'Madagascar' Breaks Out, 'Prometheus' Catches Fire". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
^ Dickey, Josh L. (March 17, 2012). "'Prometheus' stokes hottest fire at Wonder-Con". Variety. PMC. Archived from the original on April 21, 2012. Retrieved March 18, 2012.
Scott used the 3D footage to increase the illusion of depth. Despite this being his first 3D film he found the process easy. He said, "You can literally twiddle a knob and the depth will increase," and, "the trick is not to overdo it."[114] In December 2011, Rapace undertook additional dialogue recordings for the film.[6] Additional pick-up scenes were filmed during January 2012, including a one-day shoot on the Isle of Skye, Scotland, and a new scene shot at a cave in the Scottish mountains.[116][117][118] For dark scenes, the film was color graded to specifically compensate for the light loss of 3D glasses, to ensure the image was comparable to the 2D version.[119]
Blade Runner might not have done well [financially] when it first came out, but people are still talking about it because it was infused with all these big ideas. [Scott] was also talking about very big themes in Prometheus. It was being driven by people who wanted the answers to huge questions. But I thought that we could do that without ever getting too pretentious. Nobody wants to see a movie where people are floating in space talking about the meaning of life ... That was already present in [Spaihts's] original script and [Scott] just wanted to bring it up more.[90]
"Naked Push-Ups, Time Warps and 7 Other Revelations About Ridley Scott's Prometheus"
In May 2009, Fox said that the project was a "reboot"[72] of the Alien franchise, and soon afterwards was reported as an untitled prequel to Alien.[73][74] Development stopped in June 2009 when Fox clashed with Scott over his selection of former television advertisement director Carl Erik Rinsch as director. Fox was only interested in pursuing the project if Scott directed.[75] By July 2009, Scott was contracted to direct the film, and screenwriter Jon Spaihts was hired to write the script based on his pitched idea for a direct Alien prequel.[31][76] With the director and writer in place, and pleased with Spaihts's pitch, Fox scheduled a release date for December 2011, but this was eventually canceled.[77] In June 2010, Scott announced that the script was complete and that pre-production would begin, and a filming date was set for January 2011.[78] Fox eventually pushed to develop the project into an original work, and by July 2010, Lindelof had been hired to redevelop Spaihts's screenplay.[79][80][81] In October 2010, Lindelof submitted his rewritten screenplay to Fox. Scott had initially requested a $250 million budget and an adult oriented project, but Fox was reluctant to invest this amount of money, and wanted to ensure the film would receive a lower age-rating to broaden the potential audience.[72][82]
"Alien Prequel Stalls AS Scott Fights Fox". Sky Movies. BSkyB. April 27, 2012. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved April 27, 2012.
Flynn, Richard (May 24, 2012). "London's Leicester Square re-opens after 18 month renovation". Screen International. Archived from the original on June 27, 2012. Retrieved May 24, 2012.
^ "Prometheus (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack)". iTunes. May 15, 2012. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 16, 2012.
Lond, Harley (July 21, 2011). "'Prometheus' Unbound at Comic-Con: First Image Revealed, Scott Talks 'Alien'". Moviefone. Archived from the original on August 3, 2012. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
"Holy crap! Quint chats Alien, the upcoming Alien Prequels and 3D with Sir Ridley Scott!"
Mendelson, Scott (May 6, 2017). "'Alien: Covenant' Review: 'Prometheus' Sequel Is A Return To Form(ula)". Forbes. Archived from the original on June 13, 2017. Retrieved June 13, 2017.
"'Lincoln', 'Les Miserables', 'Silver Linings' Top List Of Nominees For 18th Annual Critics Choice Movie Awards"
^ "Prometheus Moves to Iceland for Beginning of Time". Coming Soon. July 11, 2011. Archived from the original on April 6, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2011.
Radish, Christina (March 18, 2012). "Director Ridley Scott, Writer Damon Lindelof and Michael Fassbender Talk Prometheus at WonderCon 2012". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 21, 2012. Retrieved March 18, 2012.
"Prometheus to be D-BOX encoded – Cineworld interview". 3D Focus. May 9, 2012. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved May 9, 2012.
"James Cameron On Kate Winslet's 'Titanic' Comments: 'Get Over It'"
In June 2010, Scott announced that the script was complete and ready for filming.[78] However, Scott instead contacted Lindelof and asked him to review Spaihts's script.[90] Within the hour, a messenger delivered the script to Lindelof and informed him that he would wait outside to return it as soon as Lindelof had finished reading it.[91] Lindelof was unaware of what Scott and the producers liked about the existing script, and informed them that he found the general concept appealing, but that the story relied too heavily on elements of the Alien films, such as the Alien creatures' life-cycle. As a direct prequel to Alien, the story was shaped to lead into that film's story, and to recreate the familiar cues of that series,[90] and Scott wanted to avoid repeating his previous accomplishments.[92] Lindelof said, "If the ending to [Prometheus] is just going to be the room that John Hurt walks into that's full of [alien] eggs [in Alien], there's nothing interesting in that, because we know where it's going to end. Good stories, you don't know where they're going to end."[92] "A true prequel should essentially precede the events of the original film, but be about something entirely different, feature different characters, have an entirely different theme, although it takes place in that same world."[87]
"Alien: Covenant (2017)". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on June 19, 2012. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
"Prometheus Shooting Moves to Iceland for "the Beginning of Time""
Plumb, Ali (May 16, 2012). "Rapace Stars In New Prometheus Viral". Empire. Archived from the original on June 20, 2013. Retrieved May 16, 2012.
Lamar, Cyriaque (July 12, 2011). "An abandoned French subway station was turned into the set of Prometheus". io9. Gawker Media. Archived from the original on June 11, 2012. Retrieved May 18, 2012.
"Comic-Con 2011: Damon Lindelof & Charlize Theron Talk 'Prometheus' in 3D"
Illescas, Sergio. "Ridley Scott rodará en Alicante 'Prometheus', el origen de 'Alien'" (in Spanish). informacion. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012.
"Exclusive: Damon Lindelof Is Not Writing the Prometheus Sequel; Explains Why"
^ a b Trumbore, Dave (March 17, 2012). "WonderCon 2012: Prometheus Panel Recap Featuring Sir Ridley Scott and Damon Lindelof". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 21, 2012. Retrieved March 18, 2012.
Nashawaty, Chris (May 11, 2012d). "Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 4)". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
Holland, Luke (June 13, 2012). "'Prometheus' – Those Mysteries And Plot Holes Explained". NME. Archived from the original on April 11, 2013. Retrieved May 24, 2013.
Bradshaw, Peter (May 30, 2012). "Prometheus – review". The Guardian. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved May 31, 2012.
^ "EE British Academy Film Awards Nominations in 2013". bafta.org. British Academy of Film and Television Arts. January 9, 2013. Archived from the original on January 11, 2013. Retrieved January 11, 2013.
^ a b c Mortimer, Ben (June 1, 2012). "Prometheus Premiere Interviews: Designer Arthur Max and Composer Marc Streitenfeld talk Alien DNA". Heyuguys.co.uk. Archived from the original on June 7, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
"Noomi Rapace – Noomi Rapace Shocked Make-Up Artist With Blood And Sweat Request". Contactmusic.com. May 11, 2012. Archived from the original on April 19, 2013. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
Radish, Christina (December 14, 2011). "Noomi Rapace Talks 'Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows', 'Prometheus', and 'Dead Man Down'". Collider.com. Archived from the original on May 27, 2012. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
^ Murty, Govindini (June 11, 2012). "Decoding the Cultural Influences in 'Prometheus,' From Lovecraft to 'Halo'". The Atlantic. The Atlantic. Archived from the original on February 3, 2013. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
^ "Update: Gemma Arterton Meeting for Ridley Scott's Alien Prequels?". Coming Soon. September 6, 2010. Archived from the original on April 6, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2011.
^ a b c Olson, Parmy (May 3, 2012). "How An Unsung Screenwriter Got To Work With Ridley Scott On Prometheus, And Ended Up 'Riding A Bronco' (Page 2)". Forbes. Archived from the original on May 3, 2012. Retrieved May 3, 2012.
^ Reynolds, Simon (April 29, 2012). "'Prometheus' trailer: Watch the Channel 4 'Homeland' teaser ad – video". Digital Spy. Hearst Corporation. Archived from the original on June 2, 2012. Retrieved April 29, 2012.
^ a b c Carroll, Larry (April 22, 2010). "Exclusive: Ridley Scott Reveals 'Alien' Prequel Details". MTV. Viacom. Archived from the original on June 22, 2012. Retrieved March 5, 2012.
Gilchrist, Todd (June 17, 2012). "'Prometheus' Writer Damon Lindelof on Why 'Vague' Is Good and the 'Sadistically Cool' Fallout From the 'Lost' Finale". Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on November 25, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
^ Nashawaty, Chris (May 11, 2012a). "Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 1)". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
Chang, Justin (May 30, 2012). "Prometheus". Variety. PMC. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved June 1, 2012.
"Ridley Scott's Sci-Fi Film "Prometheus" Shot on RED Epic Cameras"
^ Topel, Fred (December 14, 2011). "Noomi Rapace on 'Sherlock,' 'Prometheus' and 'Dragon Tattoo'". CraveOnline. Archived from the original on December 28, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
"Prometheus". Box Office Mojo. June 2, 2012. Archived from the original on June 19, 2012. Retrieved September 4, 2012.
Sullivan, Kevin P. (June 19, 2012). "'Prometheus' FX Supervisor Gives Inside Look At First Scene". MTV. Archived from the original on June 23, 2012.
^ Woerner, Meredith (June 7, 2011). "Is Prometheus anti-science? Screenwriter Damon Lindelof responds". io9. Gawker Media. Archived from the original on September 18, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
^ Ebert, Roger (June 6, 2012). "PROMETHEUS (R)". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.
Davis, Edward (April 14, 2014). "James Cameron Wanted To Make 'Aliens 5' With Ridley Scott, Says 'Prometheus' "Didn't Add Up Logically"". IndieWire. Retrieved October 23, 2021.
^ Sciretta, Peter (June 11, 2012). "Interview: 'Prometheus' Star Charlize Theron Talks About Working With Practical Sets vs. CG, Responds to Internet Theories About Her Character and More". /Film. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
"AVP Killed Alien 5". IGN. February 8, 2006. Archived from the original on August 9, 2009. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
^ Goldberg, Matt (February 28, 2012). "Watch Prometheus' Peter Weyland (Guy Pearce) Give a TED Talk from 2023". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved February 28, 2012.
^ Nathan, Ian (2012). "Prometheus". Empire. Archived from the original on November 13, 2012. Retrieved June 7, 2012.
Zakarin, Jordan (April 17, 2012). "'Prometheus' Ad Touts Michael Fassbender as Weyland Industries Robot David (Video)". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 19, 2012.
^ Fleming, Mike (February 26, 2016). "'Alien: Covenant' Adds Aussie Actor Alex England". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
Hall, Peter (August 27, 2012). "'Prometheus' Unused Effects Shots Offer CGI vs. Make-Up Comparison". movies.com. Retrieved August 27, 2012.
"Decoding the Cultural Influences in 'Prometheus,' From Lovecraft to 'Halo'"
^ Salisbury, Mark (2012). Prometheus: The Art of the Film (Film Tie in) (Hardcover). ISBN 978-1781161098.
"Fox Flips for Damon Lindelof's Alien Prequel Script, Wants Natalie Portman to Star"
"Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 3)"
"10 Things You Didn't Know About the Making of Prometheus"
Nathan, Ian (2012). "Prometheus". Empire. Archived from the original on November 13, 2012. Retrieved June 7, 2012.
Anders, Charlie Jane (March 27, 2013). "Is the Prometheus sequel stalled out just because nobody knows how to follow that ending?". io9. Gawker Media. Archived from the original on May 18, 2013. Retrieved May 22, 2013.
^ "Noomie Rapace (The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo) For Alien Prequel?". Script Flags. August 20, 2010. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2011.
Vary, Adam (June 11, 2012). "'Prometheus' end credits reveal yet another viral video, and allusions to Nietzsche -- Video". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 14, 2012.
Lyus, Jon (June 7, 2012). "Prometheus Writer Damon Lindelof talks Engineers, Alien Family Tree & the Sequel's Opening Scene". Hey U Guys. Archived from the original on January 13, 2013. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
Hipes, Patrick (February 25, 2016). "'Alien: Covenant' Crews Up: 'Empire''s Jussie Smollett, Amy Seimetz, Carmen Ejogo & More Join Cast". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
"Ridley Scott reveals why he's taking Prometheus to Iceland. Plus new set photos for The Dark Knight Rises and Man of Steel!"
^ Chitwood, Adam (September 28, 2012). "Prometheus Blu-ray Trailer Promises Questions Will Be Answered; Ridley Scott Says Social Network Convinced Him to Shoot on RED". Collider.com. Archived from the original on September 29, 2012. Retrieved September 28, 2012.
Lane, Dan (October 15, 2012). "Alien prequel Prometheus tops Official Video Chart". Official Charts Company. Archived from the original on March 13, 2013. Retrieved October 17, 2012.
^ Perez, Rodrigo (November 13, 2015). "Ridley Scott Says 'Alien: Paradise Lost' Will Now Be Called 'Alien: Covenant'". Indie Wire. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
In the United Kingdom, approximately £1 million ($1.6 million) of tickets were pre-sold.[185] 18,827 tickets pre-sold for the London IMAX, the largest IMAX screen in the country, which broke the theater records for the highest grossing week of pre-sales with £293,312 ($474,687), and the highest grossing first day of pre-sales with £137,000 ($221,717).[186] It extended this record to 30,000 tickets sold and £470,977 ($737,588) earned, and become the most pre-booked film at that theater, exceeding the performance of high-profile IMAX releases including Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 and Avatar.[187]
^ a b c d e f g h Cauthen, Shawn (April 24, 2012). "Prometheus: Building the Greatest Alien Playground with Real Sets, Props and Stunts". Screenslam.com. Archived from the original on June 26, 2012. Retrieved May 9, 2012.
Franich, Darren (July 25, 2011). "Comic-Con best and worst: Charlize Theron's naked push-ups, Nicolas Cage peeing fire, and more!". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on June 4, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
Hunt, Bill (May 15, 2017). "Beauty and the Beast, Life, T2 Trainspotting, Ronin & more, plus a 4K release update with Spielberg's E.T." Archived from the original on May 27, 2017. Retrieved May 27, 2017.
Goldberg, Matt (April 23, 2010). "Ridley Scott Confirms Alien Prequel Will Be Shot in 3D and He Wants to Make 2 Prequels!". Collider. Archived from the original on April 5, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
In North America, Prometheus DVD and Blu-ray disc releases were listed for pre-order in partnership with Amazon on June 1, 2012, a week before the film was released in theaters. A limited number of cinema tickets for the film were offered as a pre-order incentive.[211] In June 2012, FX obtained the rights to the film's network television premiere.[212] On September 7, 2012, Fox announced that Prometheus would be the launch title of its new digital distribution initiative "Digital HD." The film was released on September 18, 2012, three weeks prior to its DVD, Blu-ray disc and Video on demand (VOD) release, for downloading and streaming through platforms including Amazon, iTunes, PlayStation Network and Xbox Live in over 50 countries.[213] The film was released on Blu-ray disc and DVD on October 9, 2012.[214] The Blu-ray disc edition of the film was released in a 2-disc set and a 4-disc "Collector's Edition." Both versions contain the theatrical cut of Prometheus, commentary by Scott, Lindelof and Spaihts, a DVD and digital copy of the film, alternate and deleted scenes, and other features. Additionally, the Collector's Edition contains the 3D version of the film and approximately 7 hours of supplemental features including a documentary on the film's production.[215] On October 8, 2012, it was reported that Fox had requested an extended version of the film for home media, but Scott refused to edit cut scenes back into the theatrical version of the film, which he considered his director's cut.[81] During its first week of sale in the United Kingdom, Prometheus was the number 1 selling film on DVD and Blu-ray Disc, outselling its nearest competitor by a factor of three.[216] An Ultra HD Blu-ray version was released in September 2017.[217][218]
^ McClintock, Pamela (June 10, 2012). "Box Office Report: 'Madagascar 3' No. 1 With $60.4 Mil, 'Prometheus' Strong No. 2 With $50 Mil". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 10, 2012.
Hammond, Pete (December 11, 2012). "'Lincoln', 'Les Miserables', 'Silver Linings' Top List Of Nominees For 18th Annual Critics Choice Movie Awards". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 12, 2012. Retrieved December 11, 2012.
"The Blueprint for Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus'". ScripFlags.com. February 26, 2011. Archived from the original on April 26, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
"Prometheus (2012)". Pinewood Group. 2011. Archived from the original on June 19, 2012. Retrieved March 25, 2012.
^ a b c "Ridley Scott shooting movie by Hekla in Iceland". IceNews. July 11, 2011. Archived from the original on February 11, 2012. Retrieved March 24, 2012.
Szalai, George (May 31, 2012). "Charlize Theron, Michael Fassbender Attend London Premiere of Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 19, 2012. Retrieved May 31, 2012.
^ Goldberg, Matt (July 11, 2011). "Prometheus Shooting Moves to Iceland for "the Beginning of Time"". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 6, 2012. Retrieved March 24, 2012.
Lesnick, Silas (September 21, 2010). "Arthur Max on Creating Robin Hood's England". CraveOnline. Archived from the original on September 26, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
^ a b Finke, Nikki (June 10, 2012). "HOT WEEKEND! Both 'Madagascar 3' And 'Prometheus' On Fire For $59.6M/$49.5M". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on June 13, 2012. Retrieved June 9, 2012.
O'Hehir, Andrew (June 6, 2012). ""Prometheus": Ridley Scott's dazzling, sci-fi spectacle". Salon. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.
^ a b c Hart, Hugh (June 15, 2012). "Origin of the Creepy Species, Prometheus-Style". Wired. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved June 16, 2012.
"Rafe Spall". Troika. Archived from the original on March 20, 2017. Retrieved October 29, 2011.
Fleming, Mike (October 7, 2010). "Next Hot Female Role: Noomi Rapace In Hunt For Ridley Scott's 3D 'Alien' Prequel". Deadline New York. Archived from the original on July 20, 2012.
Gray, Richard (May 2, 2011). "Exclusive: Q & A with Prometheus star Logan Marshall-Green". The Reel Bits. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
Pre-production began in April 2010. A team developed graphic designs for the film.[73] Scott convinced Fox to invest millions of dollars to hire scientists and conceptual artists to develop a vision of the late 21st century.[33] The production of Prometheus was marked by a high degree of secrecy.[94]
Wise, Damon (May 26, 2012). "Prometheus: the making of a new myth". The Guardian. Archived from the original on May 31, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
Olson, Parmy (May 3, 2012). "How An Unsung Screenwriter Got To Work With Ridley Scott On Prometheus, And Ended Up 'Riding A Bronco' (Page 2)". Forbes. Archived from the original on May 3, 2012. Retrieved May 3, 2012.
"Rafe Spall Talks About Secretive 'Prometheus' Film in Interview". geekrest.com. October 26, 2011. Archived from the original on May 2, 2012. Retrieved October 29, 2011.
^ "The Isle of Skye, Hollywood and Toilets". Potty Mouth. January 20, 2012. Archived from the original on July 30, 2012. Retrieved April 4, 2012.
Goldberg, Matt (April 17, 2012). "Excellent Prometheus Viral Campaign Continues with an Ad for Michael Fassbender's Android, "David"". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved April 17, 2012.
"Prometheus Blu-ray". Blu-ray.com. 2012. Archived from the original on June 5, 2012. Retrieved June 9, 2012.
^ Holland, Luke (June 13, 2012). "'Prometheus' – Those Mysteries And Plot Holes Explained". NME. Archived from the original on April 11, 2013. Retrieved May 24, 2013.
^ Lussier, Germain (July 22, 2011). "Damon Lindelof Discusses The Secrecy Of 'Prometheus'". SlasherFilm.com. Archived from the original on July 23, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
"Comic-Con 2011: Damon Lindelof & Charlize Theron Talk 'Prometheus' in 3D". Screen Rant. July 21, 2011. Archived from the original on June 8, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2011.
Eisenberg, Eric (March 6, 2012). "Prometheus Viral Reveals Stunning New Image". Cinema Blend. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved March 7, 2012.
"Teen Choice Awards 2012: 'Breaking Dawn,' 'Snow White' Lead Second Wave of Nominees"
^ McClintock, Pamela (June 1, 2012). "Box Office Report: 'Prometheus' Opening Ahead of 'Snow White' in the U.K." The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 5, 2012. Retrieved June 3, 2012.
^ "OSCARS: 85th Academy Award Nominations – Only 9 Best Pictures; Lincoln Leads with 12 Nods, Life of Pi 11, Les Misérables and Silver Linings Playbook 8, Argo 7, Skyfall and Amour and Zero Dark Thirty and Django Unchained 5". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. January 10, 2013. Archived from the original on January 12, 2013. Retrieved January 10, 2013.
"Ridley Scott Directing 'Prometheus' For Fox; Noomi Rapace Locked While Angelina Jolie And Charlize Theron Circling; Damon Lindelof Scripted With Scott From 'Alien' DNA"
^ Fischer, Russ (June 15, 2012). "Collection of 'Prometheus' Set Photos Includes One Character Cut From Final Edit". /Film. Archived from the original on July 19, 2012. Retrieved July 14, 2012.
Chitwood, Adam (September 7, 2012). "Prometheus Viral Continues? Mysterious New Clip Featuring Idris Elba Surfaces". Collider.com. Archived from the original on September 9, 2012. Retrieved September 9, 2012.
"Fox Flips for Damon Lindelof's Alien Prequel Script, Wants Natalie Portman to Star". New York. October 12, 2010. Archived from the original on October 21, 2012.
^ Subers, Ray (June 10, 2012). "Around-the-World: 'Madagascar 3' Skips Europe, Wins Overseas Anyway". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
Warner, Kara (January 14, 2011). "'Alien' Prequel Turns Into Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus'". MTV. Archived from the original on May 21, 2012.
In 2089, archaeologists Elizabeth Shaw and Charlie Holloway discover a star map in Scotland that matches others from several unconnected ancient cultures. They interpret this as an invitation from humanity's forerunners, the "Engineers". Peter Weyland, the elderly CEO of Weyland Corporation, funds an expedition, aboard the scientific vessel Prometheus, to follow the map to the distant moon LV-223. The ship's crew travels in stasis while the android David monitors their voyage. They arrive in December 2093.
Nye Griffiths, Daniel (May 31, 2012). "Prometheus: the tech behind the scenes". Wired. Archived from the original on June 2, 2012. Retrieved June 10, 2012.
Roush, George (March 7, 2012). "Exclusive: AMC Theatres, 20th Century Fox & Livestream Present LIVE Q&A With Director Ridley Scott and Premiere Of New Prometheus Trailer!". AMC Theatres. Archived from the original on March 9, 2012. Retrieved March 7, 2012.
Lindelof said that the other parts of the script were strong enough to survive without the Alien hallmarks, such as the Alien creature, which he believed had been diluted by the exposure it had received.[87] He said, "[The producers] were just looking for someone to say to them, Hey, we don't need the Alien stuff in here. It shouldn't be about that. It can be a part of this movie, but it shouldn't be what it's about."[93] Lindelof said that the film could instead run parallel to the Alien series and that a sequel would be Prometheus 2 and not Alien, and submitted an idea for how such a sequel could work. Lindelof met with the producers the following morning, and was hired shortly afterward in late 2010.[31][93] Under Lindelof, the script diverged from Spaihts's Alien prequel into an original creation.[31] Scott and Lindelof worked together five days a week between July and August 2010 to construct the vision Scott wanted to convey and decide what script changes were needed, including scaling back the Alien symbolism and tropes. In August and September 2010, Lindelof spent almost five weeks writing his first draft, which he submitted in mid-September 2010.[80] Inspired by Blade Runner and Spaihts's script, Lindelof thought that it would be possible to combine an Alien story of action and horror with "the Blade Runner thematic,"[90] to ask bigger questions than he felt were normally posed in science fiction films. Lindelof said,
Contrino, Phil (June 6, 2012). "Weekend Predictions: 'Prometheus' and 'Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted'". boxoffice.com. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
^ "The 13th Annual Golden Trailer Awards". Golden Trailer Awards. 2012. Archived from the original on July 21, 2012. Retrieved June 2, 2012.
"17th Annual ADG Awards Nominations Announced". Art Directors Guild. January 2, 2013. Archived from the original on January 8, 2013. Retrieved January 3, 2013.
^ a b c d Free, Mottram & Pringle 2012, p. 54.
"Prometheus (2012)". Rotten Tomatoes. Fandango Media. Archived from the original on June 28, 2011. Retrieved November 29, 2022.
Jagernauth, Kevin (June 14, 2012). "Did Ridley Scott Just Ruin The Mystery Of 'Prometheus' & Kill Its Sequel? (Page 2)". Indie Wire. Archived from the original on August 14, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
Vespe, Eric "Quint" (February 7, 2006). "Holy Crap! Quint Interviews James Cameron!!!". Ain't It Cool News. Archived from the original on August 14, 2012. Retrieved March 23, 2012.
"Interview: Ridley Scott Talks Prometheus, Giger, Beginning of Man and Original Alien"
Finke, Nikki; Fleming, Mike (January 19, 2011). "Ridley Scott Directing 'Prometheus' For Fox; Noomi Rapace Locked While Angelina Jolie And Charlize Theron Circling; Damon Lindelof Scripted With Scott From 'Alien' DNA". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on May 21, 2012. Retrieved June 14, 2012.
Kaufman, Amy (June 7, 2012). "Movie Projector: 'Madagascar 3' could edge out 'Prometheus'". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on June 8, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
B, Benjamin (July 2012). "Ancient Aliens". American Cinematographer. American Society of Cinematographers. Archived from the original on February 4, 2013. Retrieved July 25, 2012.
"OSCARS: 85th Academy Award Nominations – Only 9 Best Pictures; Lincoln Leads with 12 Nods, Life of Pi 11, Les Misérables and Silver Linings Playbook 8, Argo 7, Skyfall and Amour and Zero Dark Thirty and Django Unchained 5". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. January 10, 2013. Archived from the original on January 12, 2013. Retrieved January 10, 2013.
"Update: Gemma Arterton Meeting for Ridley Scott's Alien Prequels?". Coming Soon. September 6, 2010. Archived from the original on April 6, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2011.
^ "Comic-Con '11: Ridley Scott Is Shooting For Both An R-Rated & PG-13 Cut Of 'Prometheus'". Indie Wire. July 22, 2011. Archived from the original on May 31, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2012.
^ Ridley Scott (Director) (2003). Alien (DVD (audio commentary track)). 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment, Inc. It's a tough one, particularly with the success of four. I think if you close the lid it should be the end of the first chapter, and I think very simply what no one's done is simply gone back to re-visit 'what was it?' No one's ever said 'who's the space jockey?' He wasn't an Alien. What was that battleship? Is it a battleship? Is it an aircraft carrier? Is it a bio-mechanoid weapon carrier? ... Why did it land? Did it crash-land, or did it settle there because it had engine trouble? ... And how long ago? 'Cause those eggs would sit there.
^ O'Hehir, Andrew (June 6, 2012). ""Prometheus": Ridley Scott's dazzling, sci-fi spectacle". Salon. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.
"Ridley Scott Says 'Alien: Paradise Lost' Will Now Be Called 'Alien: Covenant'"
Spaihts was tasked with exploring unresolved mysteries from Alien, such as the Space Jockey. He considered the mysteries of Alien to be alien in nature, and said, "all the mysteries have alien players: the exoskeleton nightmare and ... the elephantine titan that was called the 'space jockey' ... How do you make anyone care about events between creatures like this?" His solution was to link the alien mysteries to the past and future of humanity. He said: "If that story is somehow ours and deeply enmeshed with the human story, that story changes meaning within our life, things of such significance that we think of our own lives differently."[89] Spaihts found translating Scott's stylistic visual concepts to text difficult, and he periodically constrained some of Scott's ideas. He reminded Scott that in the scene they were discussing, the characters were subject to gravity and so could not simply float.[77] By April 2010, the script was on the fourth draft.[73] Scott said about the script, "We are talking about gods and engineers. Engineers of space. And were the aliens designed as a form of biological warfare? Or biology that would go in and clean up a planet?"[79]
"Interview: 'Prometheus' Star Charlize Theron Talks About Working With Practical Sets vs. CG, Responds to Internet Theories About Her Character and More"
"Sound Editors Announce Nominations For Golden Reel Awards". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. January 17, 2013. Archived from the original on May 31, 2015. Retrieved January 17, 2013.
"How An Unsung Screenwriter Got To Work With Ridley Scott On Prometheus, And Ended Up 'Riding A Bronco' (Page 2)"
^ Contrino, Phil (June 6, 2012). "Weekend Predictions: 'Prometheus' and 'Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted'". boxoffice.com. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
Mottram, James (September 3, 2010). "Ridley Scott: 'I'm doing pretty good, if you think about it'". The Independent. London. Archived from the original on November 11, 2012.
The interior of the Prometheus was built across a two-level structure, fronted by a large, faceted, wrap around windscreen. Theron's quarters were designed to represent her high status in the crew, and were furnished with modern and futuristic items, including Swarovski chandeliers and a Fazioli piano.[105] The ship's garage was built on the backlot of Pinewood Studios in England. The vehicles inside were built in 11 weeks and were designed to operate on difficult terrain while having a futuristic aesthetic. Max created a large pyramid structure for the alien world, which had its main interior areas connected by a series of chambers, corridors, and tunnels; it was so large that some members of the film crew became lost inside it. The pyramid was enhanced in post-production to further increase its size.[105] One of the key sets, the chamber where the crew find the humanoid-head statue, was designed to resemble the interior of a cathedral and convey a quasi-religious impression.[136] Giger designed the murals that appear within the chamber.[74]
^ "All Time Box Office- Worldwide Grosses". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on October 5, 2012. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
Oliver, Glen (May 15, 2012). "Ample Sample Clips From Prometheus' Score Are Now Online!!". Ain't It Cool News. Archived from the original on May 18, 2012. Retrieved May 16, 2012.
Perez, Rodrigo (November 13, 2015). "Ridley Scott Says 'Alien: Paradise Lost' Will Now Be Called 'Alien: Covenant'". Indie Wire. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ a b c d Anders, Charlie Jane (June 12, 2012). "10 Things You Didn't Know About the Making of Prometheus". io9. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved June 13, 2012.
Anders, Charlie Jane (June 12, 2012). "10 Things You Didn't Know About the Making of Prometheus". io9. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved June 13, 2012.
^ Langshaw, Mark (April 26, 2012). "'Prometheus' trailer to get live Twitter response during 'Homeland'". Digital Spy. Hearst Corporation. Archived from the original on June 30, 2012. Retrieved April 29, 2012.
"Comic-Con best and worst: Charlize Theron's naked push-ups, Nicolas Cage peeing fire, and more!"
^ Arnold, Ben (December 21, 2012). "Prometheus writer won't be penning sequel". Yahoo!. Archived from the original on May 23, 2013. Retrieved May 22, 2013.
"Ridley Scott's Sci-Fi Film "Prometheus" Shot on RED Epic Cameras". camerarentalz.com. Archived from the original on June 23, 2012.
Child, Ben (July 22, 2011). "Ridley Scott beams into Comic-Con to unveil Prometheus". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on July 14, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
^ a b "'Prometheus': Noomi Rapace says she gutted out a 'psychological meltdown'". Los Angeles Times. June 9, 2012. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 16, 2012.
^ Sancton, Julian (March 22, 2012). "TED Goes to the Movies With 'Prometheus' Promotion". Bloomberg Businessweek. Bloomberg L.P. Archived from the original on March 24, 2012. Retrieved March 22, 2012.
Finke, Nikki (January 14, 2011). "Ridley Scott Directing 'Prometheus' For Fox; Noomi Rapace Locked While Angelina Jolie And Charlize Theron Circling; Damon Lindelof Scripted With Scott From 'Alien' DNA". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on May 21, 2012.
^ Goldberg, Matt (April 17, 2012). "Excellent Prometheus Viral Campaign Continues with an Ad for Michael Fassbender's Android, "David"". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved April 17, 2012.
Titled Alien: Covenant,[256] the sequel premiered in London, England on May 4, 2017,[257] and was released in the United States on May 19, 2017.[258] Set eleven years after the events of Prometheus,[259] Alien: Covenant's story follows the crew of the Covenant space ship who land on an uncharted and seemingly uninhabited planet. The film stars Katherine Waterston,[260] Danny McBride,[261] Demián Bichir,[262] Jussie Smollett, Amy Seimetz, Carmen Ejogo, Callie Hernandez, Alex England and Billy Crudup.[263][264][265] On release, Alien: Covenant earned a worldwide box office gross of $240.7 million (compared to Prometheus' $403.4 million),[266][3] and received generally favorable reviews.[267][268] A sequel to Alien: Covenant is in development.[269] In 2013, a comic book series was announced by Dark Horse Comics that serves as a spin-off to Prometheus. The series, titled Fire and Stone, is an Alien vs. Predator crossover featuring content exclusive to Prometheus. The first issue of Fire and Stone was released on September 10, 2014.[270]
^ "FX Acquires 'Prometheus' TV Rights". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. June 11, 2012. Archived from the original on June 21, 2012. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
Wales, George (April 10, 2012). "Prometheus footage reveal report: details and reaction". Total Film. Future plc. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved April 10, 2012.
"Prometheus (2012) - International Box Office Results". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on June 22, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
^ "Around-the-World Roundup: 'MIB 3' Leads Again, 'Prometheus' Opens Strong". Box Office Mojo. June 5, 2012. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.
Lincoln, Ross (February 25, 2016). "Billy Crudup Joining 'Alien: Covenant' & 'Jackie' Biopic". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
Development on a fifth film in the Alien franchise was in progress by 2002. Scott considered returning to the series he created with his 1979 science fiction horror film Alien, to pursue a sequel that would explore the engineered origins of the series's Alien creatures,[67] and the "space jockey"—the extraterrestrial being, who briefly appears in Alien, as the deceased pilot of a derelict spaceship.[68] Alien star Sigourney Weaver also expressed interest in returning to the series.[69] Aliens director James Cameron discussed the potential for a sequel with Scott, and began working with another writer on a story for the film. It was then that 20th Century Fox approached Cameron with a script for a crossover film that would pit the series's monsters against the title characters of the Predator films; this project became the 2004 science fiction film Alien vs. Predator.[70] After Fox confirmed that it would pursue the crossover, Cameron stopped working on his own project, believing the crossover would "kill the validity of the franchise."[71] In 2006, Cameron confirmed that he would not return to the Alien sequel project, believing that the series was Fox's asset, and he was unwilling to deal with the studio's attempts to influence the potential sequel.[70]
Shaw is the only religious believer in the crew and openly displays her religious belief with a necklace of a Christian cross. Lindelof said that with her scientific knowledge, her beliefs felt outdated in 2093. Shaw is excited when she learns that she was created by the Engineers and not a supernatural deity, but rather than cause her to lose her faith, it reinforces it. Lindelof said that asking questions and searching for meaning is the point of being alive, and so the audience is left to question whether Shaw was protected by God because of her faith. Scott wanted the film to end with Shaw's declaration that she is still searching for definitive answers.[57] In addition to the religious themes, Lindelof said that Prometheus is pro-science and explores whether scientific knowledge and faith in God can co-exist.[64]
Prometheus' marketing campaign began on July 21, 2011, at the San Diego Comic-Con International, where images and footage from the film were presented by Lindelof and Theron; Scott and Rapace participated via satellite contribution.[88][148] A segment of the footage showed Theron performing naked push-ups, which attracted much attention.[149][150] A teaser poster was released on December 14, 2011, with the tagline, "The search for our beginning could lead to our end."[151] A bootleg recording of an incomplete trailer was leaked online on November 27, 2011, but was quickly taken down by Fox.[152] The trailer was released on December 22, 2011.[153]
Warren, Christina (May 16, 2012). "'Prometheus' Social Campaign Expands with Live Red Carpet and More". Mashable. Mashable Inc. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved May 16, 2012.
For the crew's space suits, Scott was inspired to include spherical glass helmets after reading a story in Steve Jobs' biography about building an office out of Gorilla Glass. Scott said, "If I'm in 2083 and I'm going into space, why would I design a helmet that has blind spots. What I want is something where I have 360 [vision]. Glass, by then, will be light and you won't be able to break it with a bullet."[19] The interior of the prop helmets had nine functioning video screens, internal lighting, an air supply provided by two fans, and battery packs concealed within a backpack. The helmet's exterior featured a functional light source and high definition video cameras with a transmitter and recorder. For the suit itself, Scott wanted to avoid the unwieldy NASA-style suit. His frequent collaborator, Janty Yates, used medical research concepts relating to skin replacement treatments and materials to develop a garment that would be believable, flexible and comfortable. The outfit comprised a neoprene suit worn under an outer space suit, a base to which the helmet could be attached, and a backpack.[105]
""Prometheus" Crew: On A Mission Collision". Inquirer.net. Philippine Daily Inquirer. April 29, 2012. Archived from the original on June 26, 2012. Retrieved April 30, 2012.
^ "'Prometheus' To Get IMAX 3D Release". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. March 8, 2012. Archived from the original on June 23, 2012. Retrieved March 8, 2012.
Subers, Ray (June 7, 2012). "Forecast: 'Prometheus,' 'Madagascar 3' Go Head-to-Head This Weekend". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
"Alien vs. Predator: Battle of the Sequels". IGN. January 23, 2002. Archived from the original on December 12, 2010. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
^ Lieberman, David (September 7, 2012). "Fox Hopes To Boost Movie Downloads By Offering Titles Ahead Of Discs". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on September 9, 2012. Retrieved September 8, 2012.
Weintraub, Steve (December 19, 2012). "Exclusive: Damon Lindelof Is Not Writing the Prometheus Sequel; Explains Why". Collider.com. Archived from the original on December 30, 2012. Retrieved December 20, 2012.
^ "Alien: Covenant (2017)". Rotten Tomatoes. Fandango Media. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ Dergarabedian, Paul (March 19, 2012). "'Prometheus' Trailer Premiere is a Hit!". Hollywood.com, LLC. Archived from the original on May 25, 2012. Retrieved March 20, 2012.
"All Time Box Office- Worldwide Grosses". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on October 5, 2012. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
"Prometheus". Metacritic. Fandom, Inc. Archived from the original on April 19, 2022. Retrieved May 1, 2022.
"Director Ridley Scott, Writer Damon Lindelof and Michael Fassbender Talk Prometheus at WonderCon 2012"
^ "Sound Editors Announce Nominations For Golden Reel Awards". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. January 17, 2013. Archived from the original on May 31, 2015. Retrieved January 17, 2013.
Subers, Ray (September 18, 2012). "Around-the-World Roundup: 'Resident Evil' Slays With $49.6 Million Debut". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on May 13, 2013. Retrieved May 22, 2013.
"'Prometheus' Star Noomi Rapace Reveals 'Alien' Connection, Compares Her Character With Ripley"
^ Overbye, Dennis (May 2, 2012). "He's Not Done With Exploring the Universe". The New York Times. Archived from the original on December 9, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
Burns, Chris (April 18, 2012). "3ality Technica speaks on Prometheus: 'the best experience possible with 3D'". SlashGear. Archived from the original on April 22, 2012. Retrieved April 27, 2012.
Scott, A.O. (June 7, 2012). "Something Wicked Their Way Comes, via the Galactic Void". The New York Times. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved June 7, 2012.
"OSCARS: 85th Academy Award Nominations – Only 9 Best Pictures; Lincoln Leads with 12 Nods, Life of Pi 11, Les Misérables and Silver Linings Playbook 8, Argo 7, Skyfall and Amour and Zero Dark Thirty and Django Unchained 5"
Finke, Nikki (June 10, 2012). "HOT WEEKEND! Both 'Madagascar 3' And 'Prometheus' On Fire For $59.6M/$49.5M". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on June 13, 2012. Retrieved June 9, 2012.
"Ridley Scott, Michael Fassbender, Noomi Rapace Tease 'Prometheus' at CineEurope"
^ a b "Prometheus (2012)". Pinewood Group. 2011. Archived from the original on June 19, 2012. Retrieved March 25, 2012.
^ Stuart, Kemp (May 28, 2012). "'Prometheus' Continues to Build Imax U.K. Pre-Sales Record". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 2, 2012. Retrieved May 28, 2012.
Ruiz Coll, M. A. (August 31, 2011). "Ridley Scott rueda en Alicante "Prometheus"" (in Spanish). ABC. Archived from the original on December 28, 2013. Retrieved May 9, 2013.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Prometheus". bbfc.co.uk. British Board of Film Classification. May 10, 2012. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved May 10, 2012.
Prometheus (/prəˈmiːθiəs/ prə-MEE-thee-əs) is a 2012 science fiction horror film co-produced and directed by Ridley Scott, written by Jon Spaihts and Damon Lindelof and starring Noomi Rapace, Michael Fassbender, Guy Pearce, Idris Elba, Logan Marshall-Green, and Charlize Theron. It is set in the late 21st century and centers on the crew of the spaceship Prometheus as it follows a star map discovered among the artifacts of several ancient Earth cultures. Seeking the origins of humanity, the crew arrives on a distant world and discovers a threat that could cause the extinction of the human species.
^ a b Warren, Christina (May 16, 2012). "'Prometheus' Social Campaign Expands with Live Red Carpet and More". Mashable. Mashable Inc. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved May 16, 2012.
^ "Alien vs. Predator: Battle of the Sequels". IGN. January 23, 2002. Archived from the original on December 12, 2010. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
^ a b Radish, Christina (March 18, 2012). "Director Ridley Scott, Writer Damon Lindelof and Michael Fassbender Talk Prometheus at WonderCon 2012". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 21, 2012. Retrieved March 18, 2012.
^ Vary, Adam (June 11, 2012). "'Prometheus' end credits reveal yet another viral video, and allusions to Nietzsche -- Video". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 14, 2012.
Finke, Nikki (May 30, 2012). "Ridley Scott Directing 'Prometheus' Begins Foreign Run: #1 France". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on June 4, 2012. Retrieved May 31, 2012.
"Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 1)"
^ Hunt, Bill (May 15, 2017). "Beauty and the Beast, Life, T2 Trainspotting, Ronin & more, plus a 4K release update with Spielberg's E.T." Archived from the original on May 27, 2017. Retrieved May 27, 2017.
Galloway, Stephen (May 16, 2012). "Return of the 'Alien' Mind". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 16, 2012. Retrieved April 28, 2013.
^ Lincoln, Ross (February 25, 2016). "Billy Crudup Joining 'Alien: Covenant' & 'Jackie' Biopic". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ a b c Nashawaty, Chris (May 11, 2012c). "Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 3)". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
"'Prometheus' Social Campaign Expands with Live Red Carpet and More"
Roger Ebert gave the film four out of four stars, labeling it a "seamless blend of story, special effects and pitch-perfect casting, filmed in sane, effective 3-D that doesn't distract." Ebert wrote that Rapace's performance "continues here the tradition of awesome feminine strength begun by Sigourney Weaver in Alien," but considered that Elba's Janek has the most interesting character evolution. Ebert thought that the plot raises questions and does not answer them, which made the film intriguing and parallel to the "classic tradition of golden age sci-fi."[227] He later went on to name it as one of the best films of 2012.[228]
With an estimated $120–130 million budget, principal photography began on March 21, 2011 and wrapped up on October 8, 2011.[4][33][102][103] Filming began at Shepperton Studios and Pinewood Studios in England.[8][104] Scott used eight sound stages for filming, including the 007 Stage.[104] Studio space was limited and the crew had to make five stages work for approximately 16 sets, and increased the size of the 007 stage by over 30%.[105]
"Ridley Scott Refused to Do an Extended Cut for Prometheus Blu-ray; Jon Spaihts Reveals Details about His Original Script"
Nashawaty, Chris (May 11, 2012c). "Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 3)". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
Williamson, Hannah (May 9, 2012). "School Girl Stars in Sci-Fi Blockbuster". Your Local Guardian. Newsquest Digital. Archived from the original on December 27, 2013. Retrieved May 17, 2012.
"Noomi Rapace Talks 'Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows', 'Prometheus', and 'Dead Man Down'"
"Box Office Preview: 'Madagascar 3' Likely to Beat 'Prometheus' For No. 1 in U.S."
^ Segers, Frank (June 3, 2012). "Foreign Box Office: 'Men in Black 3' Stays No. 1 Overseas With $275 Million-Plus". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 7, 2012. Retrieved June 3, 2012.
Gammie, Joseph (May 6, 2012). "Alien: The monster returns?". The Independent. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
^ "Rafe Spall Talks About Secretive 'Prometheus' Film in Interview". geekrest.com. October 26, 2011. Archived from the original on May 2, 2012. Retrieved October 29, 2011.
"VES Awards: 'The Hobbit', 'Avengers', 'Life Of Pi', 'ParaNorman' Lead Nominations"
Stuart, Kemp (May 28, 2012). "'Prometheus' Continues to Build Imax U.K. Pre-Sales Record". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 2, 2012. Retrieved May 28, 2012.
5Design											Toggle Design subsection																					5.1Costume design																											5.2Sets and vehicles																											5.3Creature effects																											5.4Sound effects																											5.5Visual effects
Weintraub, Steve (May 31, 2012). "Guy Pearce Talks Making Prometheus, Viral Marketing, Working for Ridley Scott, and Briefly Mentions Iron Man 3". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 3, 2012. Retrieved June 2, 2012.
^ Goldberg, Matt (April 23, 2010). "Ridley Scott Confirms Alien Prequel Will Be Shot in 3D and He Wants to Make 2 Prequels!". Collider. Archived from the original on April 5, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
^ a b c d "Interview: Ridley Scott Talks Prometheus, Giger, Beginning of Man and Original Alien". Filmophilia. December 17, 2011. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved December 19, 2011.
The central theme in Prometheus concerns the eponymous Titan of Greek mythology who defies the gods and gifts humanity with fire, for which he is subjected to eternal punishment.[21] The gods want to limit their creations in case they attempt to usurp the gods.[53] The film deals with humanity's relationship with the gods—their creators—and the consequence of defying them. A human expedition intends to find them and receive knowledge about belief, immortality and death. They find superior beings who appear god-like in comparison to humanity, and the Prometheus crew suffer consequences for their pursuit.[21] Shaw is directly responsible for the events of the plot because she wants her religious beliefs affirmed,[54] and believes she is entitled to answers from her god; her questions remain unanswered and she is punished for her hubris.[55][56] The film offers similar resolution, providing items of information but leaving the connections and conclusions to the audience, potentially leaving the question unanswered.[56] Further religious allusions are implied by the Engineers' decision to punish humanity with destruction 2,000 years before the events of the film. Scott suggested that an Engineer was sent to Earth to stop humanity's increasing aggression, but was crucified, implying it was Jesus Christ.[55][57][58] However, Scott felt that an explicit connection in the film would be "a little too on the nose."[55]
Nero, Dom (September 1, 2021). "It's Time to Redeem 'Prometheus'". Yahoo News. Retrieved September 2, 2021.
^ a b "Prometheus (2012)". Rotten Tomatoes. Fandango Media. Archived from the original on June 28, 2011. Retrieved November 29, 2022.
^ "Idris Elba Reveals Bits & Pieces Of "Prometheus"". Indie Wire. June 9, 2011. Archived from the original on May 31, 2012. Retrieved June 9, 2011.
"El equipo de Ridley Scott trabaja ya en el foso de Ciudad de la Luz" (in Spanish). ABC. August 25, 2011. Archived from the original on June 28, 2012. Retrieved May 9, 2013.
"Patrick Wilson lands on TV with new series "A Gifted Man" this fall"
^ Scott, A.O. (June 7, 2012). "Something Wicked Their Way Comes, via the Galactic Void". The New York Times. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved June 7, 2012.
McLean, Thomas J. (June 8, 2012). "Dariusz Wolski: Bringing 3D to the table". Variety. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
^ Jagernauth, Kevin (June 14, 2012). "Did Ridley Scott Just Ruin The Mystery Of 'Prometheus' & Kill Its Sequel? (Page 2)". Indie Wire. Archived from the original on August 14, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
^ a b c d e f O'Connell, Sean (June 5, 2012). "Dialogue: Sir Ridley Scott Explains 'Prometheus,' Explores Our Past, and Teases Future 'Alien' Stories". Movies.com. Fandango. Archived from the original on November 14, 2013. Retrieved June 7, 2012.
Heynman, Jessie (September 7, 2012). "James Cameron On Kate Winslet's 'Titanic' Comments: 'Get Over It'". news.moviefone.com. Archived from the original on September 8, 2012. Retrieved October 7, 2012.
Zeitchik, Steven (May 7, 2012). "'R rating for 'Prometheus': Will it hurt the film commercially?". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved May 8, 2012.
^ B, Benjamin (July 2012). "Ancient Aliens". American Cinematographer. American Society of Cinematographers. Archived from the original on February 4, 2013. Retrieved July 25, 2012.
"'Alien: Covenant' Review: 'Prometheus' Sequel Is A Return To Form(ula)"
Krinsky, Tamara (May 8, 2012). "'Lost' Co-Creator Talks 'Prometheus' Viral Videos, Twitter". Tubefilter. Archived from the original on May 13, 2012. Retrieved May 10, 2012.
^ Deggans, Eric (August 5, 2011). "Patrick Wilson lands on TV with new series "A Gifted Man" this fall". Tampa Bay. Archived from the original on October 15, 2012.
Fleming, Mike (February 26, 2016). "'Alien: Covenant' Adds Aussie Actor Alex England". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ a b Finke, Nikki; Fleming, Mike (January 19, 2011). "Ridley Scott Directing 'Prometheus' For Fox; Noomi Rapace Locked While Angelina Jolie And Charlize Theron Circling; Damon Lindelof Scripted With Scott From 'Alien' DNA". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on May 21, 2012. Retrieved June 14, 2012.
"Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 4)"
^ Turek, Ryan (December 14, 2011). "Hi-Res Poster for Ridley Scott's Prometheus!". ShockTillYouDrop.com. Archived from the original on April 17, 2012. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
^ a b c "Damon Lindelof Explains How Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus' is Connected to the 'Alien' Films". /Film. June 28, 2011. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved February 29, 2012.
"Three CGI Images From An Alternate Version of 'Prometheus' Action Scene"
^ Spines, Christine (June 5, 2009). "The Hollywood Insider". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved June 13, 2012.
Robertson, Barbara (June 8, 2012). "VFX Supervisor Richard Stammers on Prometheus". StudioDaily. Archived from the original on July 5, 2012. Retrieved June 30, 2012.
^ Weintraub, Steve (December 19, 2012). "Exclusive: Damon Lindelof Is Not Writing the Prometheus Sequel; Explains Why". Collider.com. Archived from the original on December 30, 2012. Retrieved December 20, 2012.
"Beauty and the Beast, Life, T2 Trainspotting, Ronin & more, plus a 4K release update with Spielberg's E.T."
Kit, Borys (March 17, 2011). "WonderCon 2012: Ridley Scott Talks 'Prometheus' As Extended Trailer Debuts (Video)". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on May 1, 2012. Retrieved March 18, 2012.
"'Prometheus' end credits reveal yet another viral video, and allusions to Nietzsche -- Video"
^ Stuart, Kemp (May 4, 2012). "Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus' Breaks IMAX U.K. Pre-Sales Record". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on May 7, 2012. Retrieved May 4, 2012.
In North America, Prometheus earned $3.561 million in midnight showings at 1,368 theaters, including $1.03 million from 294 IMAX theaters, and went on to earn $21.4 million through its opening day.[208] During its opening weekend, the film earned $51.05 million from 3,396 theaters—an average of $15,032 per theater—ranking second behind Madagascar 3 ($60.4 million), which made it the second largest opening for a film directed by Scott behind his 2001 thriller Hannibal, the third largest second-place opening, the ninth largest opening for a prequel, and the tenth largest for an R-rated film. The largest demographic of the opening weekend audience was over the age of 25 (64%) and male (57%). 3D showings accounted for 54% of ticket sales, while IMAX contributed 18%—the majority of which was accounted for in the 3D figure.[3][209][210] The film closed on September 20, 2012, after 105 days (15 weeks) in release with a total gross of $126.4 million. The figure made it the number 43 highest-grossing film to never finish a week as the number 1 film.[3]
^ Wise, Damon (May 26, 2012). "Prometheus: the making of a new myth". The Guardian. Archived from the original on May 31, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
^ Warner, Kara (January 14, 2011). "'Alien' Prequel Turns Into Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus'". MTV. Archived from the original on May 21, 2012.
Mortimer, Ben (June 1, 2012). "Prometheus Premiere Interviews: Designer Arthur Max and Composer Marc Streitenfeld talk Alien DNA". Heyuguys.co.uk. Archived from the original on June 7, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
^ a b c d Lyus, Jon (June 7, 2012). "Prometheus Writer Damon Lindelof talks Engineers, Alien Family Tree & the Sequel's Opening Scene". Hey U Guys. Archived from the original on January 13, 2013. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
Neal Scanlan and Conor O'Sullivan developed the film's alien creatures, aiming to convey that each creature has a logical biological function and purpose. Scanlan said that much of Scott's inspiration for creature design is drawn from natural life, such as plants and sea creatures.[105] Creature designer Carlos Huante chose to make the creature designs pale to contrast the black-toned, Giger-influenced aesthetic of Alien. Huante designed them to be white and embryonic because the events in the film occur before Giger's influence had taken effect. Huante took influences from references Scott was using to design the pale-skinned Engineers. Huante also referenced other Giger works, national monuments, large sculptures, and the Crazy Horse Memorial statue in South Dakota. Part of Huante's early design work included developing precursors to Alien's Facehugger, and a primitive Alien creature, but these were cut from the final release. When designing the Engineers, Scott and Huante referenced paintings by William Blake and J. M. W. Turner, and classical sculptures.[40] Scott wanted the Engineers to resemble Greco-Roman gods, and instructed designer Neville Page to reference the Statue of Liberty, Michelangelo's David, and Elvis Presley.[139] The 8-foot tall, humanoid Engineers were created by applying bulky, full-body prosthetics to the actors, whose facial features were diminished by the material, and were later digitally enhanced to preserve the "godlike" physical perfection.[140] Scott described the Engineers as tall, elegant "dark angels."[55]
Overbye, Dennis (May 2, 2012). "He's Not Done With Exploring the Universe". The New York Times. Archived from the original on December 9, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
"Behind The Scenes On Prometheus VFX". Digital Arts. IDG. June 13, 2012. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved June 13, 2012.
Sweney, Mark (May 8, 2012). "Channel 4 under Ofcom investigation over Prometheus exclusive". The Guardian. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved May 8, 2012.
^ "Prometheus to be D-BOX encoded – Cineworld interview". 3D Focus. May 9, 2012. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved May 9, 2012.
^ "2012 Worldwide Grosses". Box Office Mojo. 2012. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved October 3, 2012.
Trumbore, Dave (March 17, 2012). "WonderCon 2012: Prometheus Panel Recap Featuring Sir Ridley Scott and Damon Lindelof". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 21, 2012. Retrieved March 18, 2012.
Development of the film began in the early 2000s as a fifth installment in the Alien franchise. Scott and director James Cameron developed ideas for a film that would serve as a prequel to Scott's 1979 science-fiction horror film Alien. In 2002, the development of Alien vs. Predator took precedence, and the project remained dormant until 2009 when Scott again showed interest. Spaihts wrote a script for a prequel to the events of the Alien films, but Scott opted for a different direction to avoid repeating cues from those films. In late 2010, Lindelof joined the project to rewrite Spaihts's script, and he and Scott developed a story that precedes the story of Alien but is not directly connected to the original series. According to Scott, although the film shares "strands of Alien's DNA," and takes place in the same universe, Prometheus explores its own mythology and ideas.
Turek, Ryan (December 14, 2011). "Hi-Res Poster for Ridley Scott's Prometheus!". ShockTillYouDrop.com. Archived from the original on April 17, 2012. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
^ a b c "Behind The Scenes On Prometheus VFX". Digital Arts. IDG. June 13, 2012. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved June 13, 2012.
"Ridley Scott rodará en Alicante 'Prometheus', el origen de 'Alien'"
^ Dayal, Geeta (June 13, 2012). "Parrots and Pop Rocks used to create Prometheus' sounds". Wired. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved June 30, 2012.
^ a b Jagernauth, Kevin (June 14, 2012). "Did Ridley Scott Just Ruin The Mystery Of 'Prometheus' & Kill Its Sequel? (Page 1)". Indie Wire. Archived from the original on May 24, 2013. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
"Prometheus Writer Damon Lindelof talks Engineers, Alien Family Tree & the Sequel's Opening Scene"
Nashawaty, Chris (May 11, 2012). "'Prometheus': Birth of a new 'Alien'". Entertainment Weekly. No. 1207.
^ Galloway, Stephen (May 16, 2012). "Return of the 'Alien' Mind". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 16, 2012. Retrieved April 28, 2013.
^ Kaufman, Amy (June 7, 2012). "Movie Projector: 'Madagascar 3' could edge out 'Prometheus'". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on June 8, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
"Paradise Found: Ridley Scott's Alien Prequel Gets a Title, Takes Aim at Yeoh and Fassbender". New York. December 8, 2010. Archived from the original on April 23, 2012.
Child, Ben (December 18, 2012). "Amour and The Master lead charge for London Film Critics' Circle awards". The Guardian. Retrieved September 30, 2022.
Another theme is creation and the question of "Who Am I? Who Made Me? Why Hast Thou Forsaken Me?"[57][62] Development of the in-universe mythology explored the Judeo-Christian creation of humanity, but Scott was interested in Greco-Roman and Aztec creation myths about gods who create humans in their own image by sacrificing a piece of themselves. This creation is shown in the film's opening in which an Engineer sacrifices itself after consuming the dark liquid, acting as a "gardener in space" to bring life to a world.[58] One of their expeditions creates humanity, who create artificial life (David) in their own image. David then introduces the dark liquid to Holloway who impregnates a sterile Shaw, and the resulting child impregnates an Engineer, creating the child of all three generations.[57] Scott likened the Engineers to the dark angels of John Milton's Paradise Lost, and said that humanity was their offspring and not God's.[55][63]
^ Wood, Michael (July 5, 2012). "At the Movies". London Review of Books. 34 (13): 39. Archived from the original on October 13, 2012. Retrieved September 8, 2012.
^ "Charlize Theron Explains Her Prometheus Character". December 23, 2011. Archived from the original on May 25, 2012. Retrieved June 16, 2012.
Crocker, Jonathan (May 30, 2012). "Prometheus". Total Film. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved June 5, 2012.
English, Paul (April 14, 2012). "Rising Scots actor Emun Elliott reveals his excitement at starring in new Irvine Welsh film Filth". Daily Record. Archived from the original on March 9, 2014. Retrieved May 4, 2012.
^ McLean, Thomas J. (June 8, 2012). "Dariusz Wolski: Bringing 3D to the table". Variety. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
^ Katz, Josh (June 1, 2012). "Prometheus Blu-ray, Pre-Order and Get One Movie Ticket". Blu-ray.com. Archived from the original on June 3, 2012. Retrieved June 3, 2012.
^ Mendelson, Scott (May 6, 2017). "'Alien: Covenant' Review: 'Prometheus' Sequel Is A Return To Form(ula)". Forbes. Archived from the original on June 13, 2017. Retrieved June 13, 2017.
^ Gettell, Oliver (June 8, 2012). "'Prometheus' comes up short of 'Alien' aspirations, critics say". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on January 29, 2013. Retrieved May 24, 2013.
"Exclusive: AMC Theatres, 20th Century Fox & Livestream Present LIVE Q&A With Director Ridley Scott and Premiere Of New Prometheus Trailer!"
^ Wigler, Josh (March 7, 2011). "'Prometheus' Star Noomi Rapace Reveals 'Alien' Connection, Compares Her Character With Ripley". MTV. Archived from the original on June 8, 2012. Retrieved February 6, 2012.
Huddleston, Tom (May 31, 2012). "Prometheus: Film Review". Time Out London. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved June 5, 2012.
Fleming, Mike (February 22, 2016). "Demian Bichir Joins Ridley Scott's 'Alien: Covenant'". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
"Charlize Theron, Michael Fassbender Attend London Premiere of Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus'"
Robey, Tim (April 10, 2012). "Prometheus – preview". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on June 26, 2012. Retrieved April 10, 2012.
^ a b Illescas, Sergio. "Ridley Scott rodará en Alicante 'Prometheus', el origen de 'Alien'" (in Spanish). informacion. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012.
^ "Prometheus Has Landed!". National Entertainment Collectibles Association. June 8, 2012. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved June 12, 2012.
"The Isle of Skye, Hollywood and Toilets". Potty Mouth. January 20, 2012. Archived from the original on July 30, 2012. Retrieved April 4, 2012.
^ Lussier, Germain (August 27, 2012). "Three CGI Images From An Alternate Version of 'Prometheus' Action Scene". slashfilm.com. Retrieved August 27, 2012.
^ Truit, Brian (February 20, 2013). "'The Hobbit' leads Saturn Awards with nine nominations". USA Today. Archived from the original on February 21, 2013. Retrieved February 20, 2013.
Spines, Christine (June 5, 2009). "The Hollywood Insider". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved June 13, 2012.
Scott's story concept was partially inspired by Chariots of the Gods?, Erich von Däniken's work about the theory of ancient astronauts which hypothesizes that life on Earth was created by aliens.[74][86] Scott said, "NASA and the Vatican agree that [it is] almost mathematically impossible that we can be where we are today without there being a little help along the way ... That's what we're looking at [in the film], at some of Erich von Däniken's ideas of how did we humans come about."[86] Spaihts originated the idea that David, the android, is like humans but does not want to be anything like them, eschewing a common theme in "robotic storytelling" such as in Blade Runner. He also developed the theme that while the human crew is searching for their creators, David is already among its creators. Scott liked these ideas and further explored them in Lindelof's rewrite.[60] For Shaw, Lindelof felt it was important that she was distinct from Alien's Ripley, to avoid inevitable comparisons between the two characters. In Spaihts's draft, Shaw was directly responsible for the events of the plot because she wants to seek out potentially dangerous knowledge. As with David, Lindelof expanded this facet of the character during his rewrites. He spent approximately eight months developing the script, finishing in March 2011 as filming began.[54]
Sciretta, Peter (June 11, 2012). "Interview: 'Prometheus' Star Charlize Theron Talks About Working With Practical Sets vs. CG, Responds to Internet Theories About Her Character and More". /Film. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
^ Nye Griffiths, Daniel (May 31, 2012). "Prometheus: the tech behind the scenes". Wired. Archived from the original on June 2, 2012. Retrieved June 10, 2012.
^ Vespe, Eric "Quint" (February 7, 2006). "Holy Crap! Quint Interviews James Cameron!!!". Ain't It Cool News. Archived from the original on August 14, 2012. Retrieved March 23, 2012.
"Ridley Scott Confirms Alien Prequel Will Be Shot in 3D and He Wants to Make 2 Prequels!"
^ Fleming, Mike (March 14, 2011). "Logan Marshall-Green Lands 'Prometheus'". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
"Prometheus Has Landed!". National Entertainment Collectibles Association. June 8, 2012. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved June 12, 2012.
"Watch Prometheus in 3D or miss out says Aerial Stereographer". 3D Focus. May 30, 2012. Archived from the original on June 4, 2012. Retrieved June 1, 2012.
McClintock, Pamela (June 1, 2012). "Box Office Report: 'Prometheus' Opening Ahead of 'Snow White' in the U.K." The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 5, 2012. Retrieved June 3, 2012.
Wigler, Josh (March 7, 2011). "'Prometheus' Star Noomi Rapace Reveals 'Alien' Connection, Compares Her Character With Ripley". MTV. Archived from the original on June 8, 2012. Retrieved February 6, 2012.
McClintock, Pamela (January 26, 2011). "Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus' Gets High-Profile Summer Release Date". The Hollywood Reporter. PMC. Archived from the original on November 2, 2012.
^ "El equipo de Ridley Scott trabaja ya en el foso de Ciudad de la Luz" (in Spanish). ABC. August 25, 2011. Archived from the original on June 28, 2012. Retrieved May 9, 2013.
^ a b c Olson, Parmy (May 3, 2012). "How An Unsung Screenwriter Got To Work With Ridley Scott On Prometheus, And Ended Up 'Riding A Bronco'". Forbes. Archived from the original on May 3, 2012. Retrieved May 3, 2012.
^ a b Sciretta, Peter (June 8, 2012). "Interview: Michael Fassbender Talks 'Prometheus'". /Film. Archived from the original on June 13, 2012. Retrieved June 9, 2012.
Subers, Ray (June 10, 2012). "Around-the-World: 'Madagascar 3' Skips Europe, Wins Overseas Anyway". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
^ "VES Awards: 'The Hobbit', 'Avengers', 'Life Of Pi', 'ParaNorman' Lead Nominations". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. January 7, 2013. Archived from the original on January 11, 2013. Retrieved January 7, 2013.
Sullivan, Kevin (November 17, 2011). "Michael Fassbender's 'Prometheus' Character Inspired By ... Greg Louganis?". MTV Movies Blog. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
Levy, Emanuel (2012). "Prometheus". Emanuellevy.com. Archived from the original on June 4, 2012. Retrieved June 5, 2012.
Spaihts met Scott in late 2009 and they discussed Scott's desire to pursue an Alien prequel. Spaihts offered his concept, including a "bridge" that would connect the story of the film's human characters to the Alien saga. Spaihts was quickly hired, which he credited to the reception of his "bridge" idea. Spaihts claimed he created the concept spontaneously, without preconception. Spaihts wrote a 20-page "extremely detailed outline"; within three and a half weeks he had completed his first draft, and he submitted it to the producers on Christmas Day, 2009. Within 12 hours, Scott returned the script with notes for changes, and Spaihts spent the Christmas holiday redrafting.[77]
Carroll, Larry (April 22, 2010). "Exclusive: Ridley Scott Reveals 'Alien' Prequel Details". MTV. Viacom. Archived from the original on June 22, 2012. Retrieved March 5, 2012.
"Interview: Ridley Scott Talks Prometheus, Giger, Beginning of Man and Original Alien". Filmophilia. December 17, 2011. Archived from the original on June 17, 2012. Retrieved December 19, 2011.
"VES Awards: 'The Hobbit', 'Avengers', 'Life Of Pi', 'ParaNorman' Lead Nominations". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. January 7, 2013. Archived from the original on January 11, 2013. Retrieved January 7, 2013.
^ Kitchener, Shaun (May 5, 2017). "Alien Covenant reviews: First reactions from premiere – it's 'HORRIFIC, nightmarish'". Daily Express. Archived from the original on June 13, 2017. Retrieved June 13, 2017.
"Dialogue: Sir Ridley Scott Explains 'Prometheus,' Explores Our Past, and Teases Future 'Alien' Stories"
"'Prometheus': Noomi Rapace says she gutted out a 'psychological meltdown'"
The mutated Fifield effects were achieved mainly through the use of make-up and prosthetics. Due to concerns that the practical effects would be unsatisfactory, the filmmakers completed an alternative version of the sequence, in which Fifield was rendered as "a digital character with elongated limbs and an engorged, translucent head, incorporating a semblance of Harris's face."[142] Three other variations of the mutated Fifield were modeled, but these were rejected as being too inhuman.[143]
This page was last edited on 11 March 2023, at 10:34 (UTC).
Dickey, Josh L. (March 17, 2012). "'Prometheus' stokes hottest fire at Wonder-Con". Variety. PMC. Archived from the original on April 21, 2012. Retrieved March 18, 2012.
Marc Streitenfeld, who had worked with Scott on earlier projects, composed the musical score for Prometheus.[128] It took just over a week to record with a 90-piece orchestra at Abbey Road Studios in London, England.[129] Streitenfeld began writing ideas for the score after reading the script before filming commenced. He used some unusual techniques to compose the score, and said, "I actually wrote out the sheet music backwards so the orchestra played it backwards and then I digitally flipped it. So you're hearing the score as it's written, the same melody, but with a backwards sounding orchestra which gives it a kind of unusual, unsettling sound."[129] The Prometheus (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) album was released on iTunes on May 15, 2012,[130] and on CD on June 4, 2012.[131] It features 23 tracks by Streitenfeld and two supplemental tracks by Harry Gregson-Williams.[132] Frédéric Chopin's "Raindrop prelude" (1838) is also featured in the film.[133][134]
Wilkins, Alasdair (July 12, 2011). "Ridley Scott reveals why he's taking Prometheus to Iceland. Plus new set photos for The Dark Knight Rises and Man of Steel!". io9. Gawker Media. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved March 24, 2012.
"Prometheus Viral Continues? Mysterious New Clip Featuring Idris Elba Surfaces"
^ Davis, Edward (April 14, 2014). "James Cameron Wanted To Make 'Aliens 5' With Ridley Scott, Says 'Prometheus' "Didn't Add Up Logically"". IndieWire. Retrieved October 23, 2021.
Nashawaty, Chris (May 11, 2012b). "Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 2)". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
^ "Emun Elliott". United Agents. Archived from the original on May 3, 2012. Retrieved May 4, 2012.
Gutierrez, Ezequiel (July 22, 2011). "20th Century Fox Comic Con Panel and Footage Description". Hey U Guys. Archived from the original on July 13, 2012. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
"Idris Elba Reveals Bits & Pieces Of "Prometheus"". Indie Wire. June 9, 2011. Archived from the original on May 31, 2012. Retrieved June 9, 2011.
Dan O'Bannon (Writer), Ridley Scott (Director), Sigourney Weaver (Actor) (2003). Alien (DVD (audio commentary track)). 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment, Inc.
^ Chitwood, Adam (April 26, 2012). "20th Century Fox CEO Tom Rothman Says Prometheus Rating Will Be What's Best for the Film; Assures Fans "It Will Not Be Compromised"". Collider.com. Archived from the original on July 1, 2012. Retrieved April 27, 2012.
"Ridley Scott: 'I'm doing pretty good, if you think about it'"
^ Murphy, James (June 19, 2012). "Prometheus Proves Classical Music Still Matters". Huffington Post. Archived from the original on June 21, 2012. Retrieved September 8, 2012.
^ "Rapace: Prometheus was so intense". Irish Independent. December 15, 2011. Archived from the original on July 23, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
^ a b McCabe, Farley & Edwards 2012, p. 60.
^ a b Nashawaty, Chris (May 11, 2012d). "Damon Lindelof on whether 'Prometheus' is an 'Alien' prequel, plus life after 'Lost' (Page 4)". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
Abramovitch, Seth (October 17, 2012). "'Ted' Wins Big at 41st THR Key Art Awards". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 18, 2012. Retrieved October 18, 2012.
A viral marketing campaign began on February 28, 2012, with the release of a video featuring a speech by Pearce, in character as Peter Weyland, about his vision for the future. Set in 2023, the TED 2023 video presents a futuristic vision of a TED conference, an annual technology and design event held in Long Beach, California. The segment was conceived and designed by Scott and Lindelof, and directed by Scott's son, Luke. The production was made in collaboration with, and made available through TED because Lindelof wanted to introduce new audiences to the conference itself. Lindelof said that the scene takes place in a futuristic stadium because "a guy like Peter Weyland—whose ego is just massive, and the ideas that he's advancing are nothing short of hubris—that he'd basically say to TED, 'If you want me to give a talk, I'm giving it in Wembley Stadium.'"[37]
^ Chitwood, Adam (March 17, 2012). "Prometheus Viral Campaign Continues with Android-Unboxing Video from Weyland Corp Featuring Michael Fassbender". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 11, 2012. Retrieved March 17, 2012.
"Prometheus 4K Ultra-HD Blu-Ray". Archived from the original on May 27, 2017. Retrieved May 27, 2017.
^ Ditzian, Eric (September 28, 2011). "'Prometheus' Scribe Damon Lindelof Talks Robots, Slimy Corporations & Ridley Scott Collab". MTV. Archived from the original on May 24, 2012.
"Box Office Preview: 'Prometheus' vs. 'Madagascar 3' Is Too Close to Call"
^ "Prometheus [Soundtrack]". Amazon UK. May 10, 2012. Archived from the original on June 10, 2013. Retrieved May 27, 2012.
^ a b Goldberg, Matt (October 8, 2012). "Ridley Scott Refused to Do an Extended Cut for Prometheus Blu-ray; Jon Spaihts Reveals Details about His Original Script". Collider.com. Archived from the original on October 9, 2012. Retrieved October 8, 2012.
"Noomi Rapace – Noomi Rapace Shocked Make-Up Artist With Blood And Sweat Request"
Goldberg, Matt (October 8, 2012). "Ridley Scott Refused to Do an Extended Cut for Prometheus Blu-ray; Jon Spaihts Reveals Details about His Original Script". Collider.com. Archived from the original on October 9, 2012. Retrieved October 8, 2012.
"HOT WEEKEND! Both 'Madagascar 3' And 'Prometheus' On Fire For $59.6M/$49.5M"
^ a b c d e Leyland 2012, p. 84.
^ a b Warren, Christina (April 17, 2012). "'Prometheus' Ad Shows Us the Robot We All Want (EXCLUSIVE)". Mashable. Mashable Inc. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved April 20, 2012.
Dergarabedian, Paul (March 19, 2012). "'Prometheus' Trailer Premiere is a Hit!". Hollywood.com, LLC. Archived from the original on May 25, 2012. Retrieved March 20, 2012.
^ Hipes, Patrick (February 25, 2016). "'Alien: Covenant' Crews Up: 'Empire''s Jussie Smollett, Amy Seimetz, Carmen Ejogo & More Join Cast". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ a b Finke, Nikki (May 30, 2012). "Ridley Scott Directing 'Prometheus' Begins Foreign Run: #1 France". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on June 4, 2012. Retrieved May 31, 2012.
Beside drawing several influences from Paradise Lost, The Atlantic's Govindini Murty noted further influences, and wrote that "[t]he striking images Ridley Scott devises for Prometheus reference everything from Stanley Kubrick's 2001 to Leonardo da Vinci's Vitruvian Man and Mario Bava's Planet of the Vampires. Scott also expands on the original Alien universe by creating a distinctly English mythology informed by Milton's Paradise Lost and the symbolic drawings of William Blake."[65] In September 2021, a further analysis of the film was reported.[66]
^ "Prometheus 4K Ultra-HD Blu-Ray". Archived from the original on May 27, 2017. Retrieved May 27, 2017.
^ "Is This The First Prometheus Poster??". Ain't It Cool. Archived from the original on April 28, 2012.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Prometheus". bbfc.co.uk. British Board of Film Classification. May 10, 2012. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved May 10, 2012.
A key scene involving a large 3D hologram star map, dubbed the Orrery, was inspired by the 1766 Joseph Wright painting A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery, in which a scientist displays a mechanical planetarium by candlelight. While discussing the necessity of a star map with Spaihts, Scott mentioned that he envisaged a physical representation being similar to the painting, although he was unaware of its title and described it as "circles in circles with a candle lit image." Using Scott's description, Spaihts located an image of the painting. Spaihts said, "making the leap from a star map, to an Enlightenment painting, and then back into the far future. [Scott's] mind just multiplexes in that way."[89] The Orrery was one of the most complex visual effects, contained 80–100 million polygons, and took several weeks to render as a single, complete shot.[138]
Graser, Marc (May 17, 2012). "Coors, Amazon, Verizon ride with 'Prometheus'". Variety. PMC. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved May 17, 2012.
"'Prometheus' trailer: Watch the Channel 4 'Homeland' teaser ad – video"
Weintraub, Steve (June 10, 2012). "Ridley Scott Talks Prometheus and the Blade Runner Sequel; Says Prometheus Blu-ray Will Have 20 to 30 Min of Deleted Scenes". Collider.com. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
^ Crocker, Jonathan (May 30, 2012). "Prometheus". Total Film. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved June 5, 2012.
^ Sullivan, Kevin (November 30, 2011). "'Prometheus' Trailer Leak 'Heartbreakingly Unfair' News online". MTV. Archived from the original on June 23, 2012. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
^ Jaafar, Ali (December 17, 2015). "Katherine Waterston To Star In 'Alien: Covenant'". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ Subers, Ray (August 28, 2012). "Around-the-World Roundup: 'Expendables 2' Flexes Muscles Overseas". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on August 31, 2012. Retrieved August 31, 2012.
"'Prometheus' Ad Shows Us the Robot We All Want (EXCLUSIVE)"
"Prometheus (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack)". iTunes. May 15, 2012. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 16, 2012.
"Is This The First Prometheus Poster??". Ain't It Cool. Archived from the original on April 28, 2012.
Fischer, Russ (June 15, 2012). "Collection of 'Prometheus' Set Photos Includes One Character Cut From Final Edit". /Film. Archived from the original on July 19, 2012. Retrieved July 14, 2012.
^ a b c McCabe, Farley & Edwards 2012, p. 58.
"Summer's Studio Smackdown: From 'Men in Black 3' to 'Prometheus,' Which Franchises Will Get Another Chapter"
As a spacecraft departs a planet, a humanoid alien drinks a liquid, causing its body to dissolve. Its remains cascade into a waterfall and the alien's DNA falls apart and recombines.
^ Dan O'Bannon (Writer), Ridley Scott (Director), Sigourney Weaver (Actor) (2003). Alien (DVD (audio commentary track)). 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment, Inc.
Finke, Nikki (June 2, 2012). "'Snow White' $56.1M Domestic Breaks Box Office Slump: $95.4M Global; 'Prometheus' On Fire In UK Ahead Of Domestic Opening; 'Marvel's The Avengers #3 Film Of All Time". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on June 13, 2012. Retrieved June 3, 2012.
Barkman, Adam; Barkman, Ashley; Kang, Nancy, eds. (2013). The Culture and Philosophy of Ridley Scott. Lexington Books. pp. 121–142. ISBN 978-0-7391-7872-0.
^ Child, Ben (December 18, 2012). "Amour and The Master lead charge for London Film Critics' Circle awards". The Guardian. Retrieved September 30, 2022.
Roxborough, Scott (June 28, 2011). "Ridley Scott, Michael Fassbender, Noomi Rapace Tease 'Prometheus' at CineEurope". Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on May 1, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
^ Schwarzbaum, Lisa (June 6, 2012). "Prometheus (2012)". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved June 6, 2012.
Kilday, Gregg (December 3, 2012). "Satellite Awards Nominates 10 Films for Best Motion Picture". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on December 7, 2012. Retrieved December 5, 2012.
^ Gilchrist, Todd (June 5, 2012). "'Prometheus' Writer Damon Lindelof on Rumored Sequel 'Paradise' and Whether He's the Man to Write It". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved June 5, 2012.
^ Shea, Chris (March 1, 2012). "A TED Talk, Circa 2023". The Wall Street Journal – Ideas Market Blog. Archived from the original on March 3, 2012. Retrieved March 2, 2012.
^ Sneider, Jeff (February 10, 2016). "Danny McBride to Join Michael Fassbender in Ridley Scott's 'Alien: Covenant' (Exclusive)". TheWrap. Archived from the original on September 27, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
Fleming, Mike (March 14, 2011). "Logan Marshall-Green Lands 'Prometheus'". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
^ Robertson, Barbara (June 8, 2012). "VFX Supervisor Richard Stammers on Prometheus". StudioDaily. Archived from the original on July 5, 2012. Retrieved June 30, 2012.
^ Ho, Lawrence K (April 8, 2011). "'Prometheus': Michael Fassbender on Ridley Scott's 'breathtaking' project". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012.
Chitwood, Adam (September 1, 2017). "'Alien: Covenant': 38 Things We Learned from Ridley Scott's Audio Commentary". Collider.com. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ Gray, Richard (May 2, 2011). "Exclusive: Q & A with Prometheus star Logan Marshall-Green". The Reel Bits. Archived from the original on June 15, 2012. Retrieved May 11, 2012.
^ Williamson, Hannah (May 9, 2012). "School Girl Stars in Sci-Fi Blockbuster". Your Local Guardian. Newsquest Digital. Archived from the original on December 27, 2013. Retrieved May 17, 2012.
Sullivan, Kevin (November 30, 2011). "'Prometheus' Trailer Leak 'Heartbreakingly Unfair' News online". MTV. Archived from the original on June 23, 2012. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
^ Nero, Dom (September 1, 2021). "It's Time to Redeem 'Prometheus'". Yahoo News. Retrieved September 2, 2021.
Exterior shots of the alien world were shot in Iceland,[106] where filming took two weeks. It commenced on July 11, 2011, at the base of Hekla, an active volcano in southern Iceland. Speaking about working at the volcano, Scott said, "If one is afraid of nature in this profession then it would be best to find a different job."[107] Filming also took place at Dettifoss, one of the most powerful waterfalls in Europe.[108] The Iceland shoot involved 160 Icelandic crew members and over 200 imported crew.[107] Scott said that the filming in Iceland comprised approximately fifteen minutes of footage for the film, and that the area represented the beginning of time.[109] Morocco had been chosen as a location for these scenes, but the 2010 Arab Spring protests forced the change of venue.[33] Alternatives including the Mojave Desert had been considered,[110] but Scott explained that Iceland was ultimately chosen because "here it is so rough and 'Jurassic-like' and that proved decisive."[107]
Production designer Arthur Max led the film's design staff. His art team were tasked with deconstructing the art and visuals of Alien, and reverse-designing them for the chronologically earlier setting of Prometheus.[135][136] Influence was drawn from the work of Alien creature designer H. R. Giger, and designers Ron Cobb and Chris Foss, including their designs for that film which Scott had been unable to develop at the time.[136]
Murphy, James (June 19, 2012). "Prometheus Proves Classical Music Still Matters". Huffington Post. Archived from the original on June 21, 2012. Retrieved September 8, 2012.
^ Lane, Dan (October 15, 2012). "Alien prequel Prometheus tops Official Video Chart". Official Charts Company. Archived from the original on March 13, 2013. Retrieved October 17, 2012.
Squires, John (December 31, 2015). "Alien: Covenant Set Ten Years After Prometheus". Deadline Hollywood. Dread Central. Archived from the original on January 3, 2016. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
In September 2011, filming moved to the Ciudad de la Luz audiovisual complex in Alicante, Spain. Shooting areas included the complex's large water tank, and a nearby beach.[111][112] The complex was booked from August 22, 2011, through to December 10, 2011, and set construction occurred from August until late September.[111] Approximately 250 people worked on the three-month-long Spain shoot, generating over €1 million in the local economy.[113] Filming also took place in the Wadi Rum valley in Jordan.[33]
Arthur Max designed the sets such as the alien world landscape and structures, and the vehicles, including the Prometheus and the Engineer's ship.[8][105] Digital 3D models and miniature replicas of each set were built to allow the designers to envisage the connections between them and to know where the CGI elements would be inserted. To better blend the practical and the digital, the design team took rock samples from the Iceland location so they could match the graphical textures with the real rocks.[137] To create the Prometheus, Max researched NASA and European Space Agency spacecraft designs, and extended these concepts with his own ideas of how future space vehicles might look. He said that he wanted "to do something that was state-of-the-art, which would represent a flagship spacecraft with every technology required to probe into the deepest corners of the galaxy."[105]
^ McMillan, Graeme (August 20, 2014). "'Prometheus: Fire and Stone' Trailer Teases Comic Crossover With 'Aliens,' 'Predator'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 7, 2015. Retrieved February 24, 2015.
Jaafar, Ali (December 17, 2015). "Katherine Waterston To Star In 'Alien: Covenant'". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ a b c d e f g h ""Prometheus" Crew: On A Mission Collision". Inquirer.net. Philippine Daily Inquirer. April 29, 2012. Archived from the original on June 26, 2012. Retrieved April 30, 2012.
^ a b Samuel, Patrick (May 31, 2012). "Marc Streitenfeld". Static Mass Emporium. Archived from the original on June 6, 2012. Retrieved June 2, 2012.
"Damon Lindelof on Prometheus's Ending and a Handy, Spoilery Alien Infographic"
Ebert, Roger (December 27, 2012). "EBERT'S TOP MOVIES OF 2012". rogerebert.com. Archived from the original on April 8, 2016. Retrieved November 3, 2013.
"Holy crap! Quint chats Alien, the upcoming Alien Prequels and 3D with Sir Ridley Scott!". Ain't It Cool News. June 15, 2010. Archived from the original on October 11, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.
^ Huddleston, Tom (May 31, 2012). "Prometheus: Film Review". Time Out London. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved June 5, 2012.
"Alien Covenant reviews: First reactions from premiere – it's 'HORRIFIC, nightmarish'"
^ a b Radish, Christina (December 14, 2011). "Noomi Rapace Talks 'Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows', 'Prometheus', and 'Dead Man Down'". Collider.com. Archived from the original on May 27, 2012. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
Stuart, Kemp (May 4, 2012). "Ridley Scott's 'Prometheus' Breaks IMAX U.K. Pre-Sales Record". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on May 7, 2012. Retrieved May 4, 2012.
Cauthen, Shawn (April 24, 2012). "Prometheus: Building the Greatest Alien Playground with Real Sets, Props and Stunts". Screenslam.com. Archived from the original on June 26, 2012. Retrieved May 9, 2012.
"James Cameron Wanted To Make 'Aliens 5' With Ridley Scott, Says 'Prometheus' "Didn't Add Up Logically""
"An abandoned French subway station was turned into the set of Prometheus"
"Prometheus Premiere Interviews: Designer Arthur Max and Composer Marc Streitenfeld talk Alien DNA"
Langshaw, Mark (May 9, 2012). "'Prometheus' gets 15 certificate in UK, passed uncut". Digital Spy. Hearst Corporation. Archived from the original on June 11, 2012. Retrieved May 9, 2012.
Kemp, Stuart (May 8, 2012). "Ofcom Launches U.K. 'Prometheus' Trailer Probe". Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on May 11, 2012. Retrieved May 8, 2012.
"Paradise Found: Ridley Scott's Alien Prequel Gets a Title, Takes Aim at Yeoh and Fassbender"
^ "Prometheus Blu-ray". Blu-ray.com. 2012. Archived from the original on June 5, 2012. Retrieved June 9, 2012.
O'Connell, Sean (June 5, 2012). "Dialogue: Sir Ridley Scott Explains 'Prometheus,' Explores Our Past, and Teases Future 'Alien' Stories". Movies.com. Fandango. Archived from the original on November 14, 2013. Retrieved June 7, 2012.
For its grown form, the "Adult Trilobite," Max found inspiration from an arthropod-like creature from Earth's Cambrian period, and the alien octopus in Jean Giraud's illustrations for the comic strip The Long Tomorrow. Further inspiration came after Max found a formaldehyde-preserved giant squid, an image which met with Scott's approval. The film's last-unveiled creature, the "Deacon," was named by Scott for its long, pointed head that he considered resembled a bishop's mitre. Scanlan aimed to represent the creature's genetic lineage, beginning with Shaw and Holloway who produce the Trilobite which impregnates the Engineer, in its design. However, the creature was given a somewhat feminine appearance, since "it was born of a female before being born of a male." Messing drew inspiration for the Deacon's birth scene from the birth of foals, and created an iridescent appearance for its skin, based on the equine placenta.[141] The Deacon's protruding jaw was inspired by the goblin shark.[40]
"Is the Prometheus sequel stalled out just because nobody knows how to follow that ending?"
The premiere of Prometheus took place on May 31, 2012, at the Empire cinema in Leicester Square, London.[127][182] The film was released in the United Kingdom on June 1, 2012,[123] and in North America on June 8, 2012.[84] It was simultaneously released in IMAX theaters and in 3D,[183] and it is encoded for D-Box motion seats that provide physical feedback to the audience during the film.[184]
^ a b c d e "Prometheus". Box Office Mojo. June 2, 2012. Archived from the original on June 19, 2012. Retrieved September 4, 2012.
"'Prometheus' Unbound at Comic-Con: First Image Revealed, Scott Talks 'Alien'"
^ a b c d "Paradise Found: Ridley Scott's Alien Prequel Gets a Title, Takes Aim at Yeoh and Fassbender". New York. December 8, 2010. Archived from the original on April 23, 2012.
Stewart, Andrew (June 10, 2012). "'Madagascar,' 'Prometheus' triumph at B.O." Variety. Archived from the original on April 20, 2021. Retrieved April 30, 2022.
Truit, Brian (February 20, 2013). "'The Hobbit' leads Saturn Awards with nine nominations". USA Today. Archived from the original on February 21, 2013. Retrieved February 20, 2013.
"Rapace: Prometheus was so intense". Irish Independent. December 15, 2011. Archived from the original on July 23, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2011.
^ Zakarin, Jordan (April 17, 2012). "'Prometheus' Ad Touts Michael Fassbender as Weyland Industries Robot David (Video)". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 19, 2012.
"Alien: Covenant (2017)". Rotten Tomatoes. Fandango Media. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
^ Pinkerton, Nick (June 6, 2012). "Prometheus: The Tree of Death". The Village Voice. Archived from the original on June 25, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.
Scott discussed a continuation of the series in March 2012, saying that Prometheus leaves many questions unanswered and that these could be answered in a sequel.[23][96] In June 2012, Lindelof said that while plot elements were deliberately left unresolved so that they could be answered in a sequel, he and Scott had thoroughly discussed what should be resolved so that Prometheus could stand alone, as a sequel was not guaranteed.[253] By August 2012, a sequel was announced to be in development for release no earlier than 2014.[254] Lindelof chose not to work on the new film, citing other commitments.[255]
Reynolds, Simon (April 29, 2012). "'Prometheus' trailer: Watch the Channel 4 'Homeland' teaser ad – video". Digital Spy. Hearst Corporation. Archived from the original on June 2, 2012. Retrieved April 29, 2012.
Gilchrist, Todd (June 5, 2012). "'Prometheus' Writer Damon Lindelof on Rumored Sequel 'Paradise' and Whether He's the Man to Write It". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved June 5, 2012.
^ McClintock, Pamela (June 7, 2012). "Box Office Preview: 'Madagascar 3' Likely to Beat 'Prometheus' For No. 1 in U.S." The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.
"Fox Hopes To Boost Movie Downloads By Offering Titles Ahead Of Discs"
"Excellent Prometheus Viral Campaign Continues with an Ad for Michael Fassbender's Android, "David""
Rich, Katey (April 26, 2012). "Fuel VFX deploys Aspera for global media file transfer". Broadcast Engineering. Penton Media. Archived from the original on May 12, 2012. Retrieved April 26, 2012.
In July 2011, Lindelof said that the film would rely upon practical effects, and would use CGI generally for on-set pre-visualization of external space visuals.[95] Scott said that "you can pretty much do anything you want" with digital technology,[96] and, "Doug Trumbull once said to me 'If you can do it live, do it live.' That was 29 years ago. Even though we have remarkable digital capabilities I still say do it live. It's cheaper."[97] Cinematographer Dariusz Wolski convinced Scott that it would be possible to film in 3D with the same ease and efficiency of 2D filming. 3D company 3ality Technica provided some of the rigs and equipment to facilitate 3D filming, and trained the film's crew in their proper operation.[98] According to Scott, the decision to film in 3D added $10 million to the film's budget.[99] Since 3D films need high lighting levels on set, the hallmark dark and shadowy atmosphere of the Alien films was added in post-production using color grading processes, and the 3D equipment was based on post-Avatar technology.[100][101]
^ "Comic Con 2011 Report: Prometheus". Badass Digest. July 21, 2011. Archived from the original on June 8, 2012. Retrieved December 23, 2011.
"WonderCon 2012: Prometheus Panel Recap Featuring Sir Ridley Scott and Damon Lindelof"
4Production											Toggle Production subsection																					4.1Development																											4.2Writing																											4.3Pre-production																											4.4Filming																											4.5Post-production																											4.6Music
^ "Alien: Covenant (2017)". Box Office Mojo. Archived from the original on June 19, 2012. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
"'R rating for 'Prometheus': Will it hurt the film commercially?"
^ Fleming, Mike (February 22, 2016). "Demian Bichir Joins Ridley Scott's 'Alien: Covenant'". Deadline Hollywood. PMC. Archived from the original on December 31, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
The Hollywood Reporter's Todd McCarthy called the film's visuals vivid, stunning, and magnificent on a technical level, and praised the performances of Fassbender, Rapace, and Theron, but wrote that the film "caters too much to imagined audience expectations when a little more adventurous thought might have taken it to some excitingly unsuspected destinations."[224] Time Out London's Tom Huddleston wrote that "the photography is pleasingly crisp and the design is stunning," but that, "[t]he script feels flat ... the dialogue is lazy, while the plot, though crammed with striking concepts, simply fails to coalesce. After an enjoyable setup, the central act is baggy, confusing and, in places, slightly boring, while the climax has flash and fireworks but no real momentum."[225] Emanuel Levy wrote that the writing was his only complaint about the film, which, he said, "is not only uneven, but promises more original ideas and thematic provocations than it can possibly deliver."[226]
"EE British Academy Film Awards Nominations in 2013". bafta.org. British Academy of Film and Television Arts. January 9, 2013. Archived from the original on January 11, 2013. Retrieved January 11, 2013.
"Next Hot Female Role: Noomi Rapace In Hunt For Ridley Scott's 3D 'Alien' Prequel"
^ Yamato, Jen (June 12, 2012). "Damon Lindelof on Prometheus's Ending and a Handy, Spoilery Alien Infographic". Archived from the original on January 20, 2013. Retrieved December 9, 2012.
Dayal, Geeta (June 13, 2012). "Parrots and Pop Rocks used to create Prometheus' sounds". Wired. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved June 30, 2012.
Murty, Govindini (June 11, 2012). "Decoding the Cultural Influences in 'Prometheus,' From Lovecraft to 'Halo'". The Atlantic. The Atlantic. Archived from the original on February 3, 2013. Retrieved June 11, 2012.
Sneider, Jeff (February 10, 2016). "Danny McBride to Join Michael Fassbender in Ridley Scott's 'Alien: Covenant' (Exclusive)". TheWrap. Archived from the original on September 27, 2017. Retrieved December 31, 2017.
"Comic-Con '11: Ridley Scott Is Shooting For Both An R-Rated & PG-13 Cut Of 'Prometheus'"
In the Wake of Chaos: Unpredictable Order in Dynamical Systems
^ National Research Council (2007). "What happens far from equilibrium and why". Condensed-Matter and Materials Physics: the science of the world around us. pp. 91–110. doi:10.17226/11967. ISBN 978-0-309-10969-7. Archived from the original on 4 November 2016.– Jaeger, Heinrich M.; Liu, Andrea J. (2010). "Far-From-Equilibrium Physics: An Overview". arXiv:1009.4874 [cond-mat.soft].
^ "Journal of Mathematical Physics". Archived from the original on 18 August 2014. Retrieved 31 March 2014. [Journal of Mathematical Physics] purpose is the publication of papers in mathematical physics — that is, the application of mathematics to problems in physics and the development of mathematical methods suitable for such applications and for the formulation of physical theories.
^ Young & Freedman 2014, p. 2 "Physics is an experimental science. Physicists observe the phenomena of nature and try to find patterns that relate these phenomena."
Womersley, J. (February 2005). "Beyond the Standard Model" (PDF). Symmetry. Vol. 2, no. 1. pp. 22–25. Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 September 2015.
Stewart, J. (2001). Intermediate Electromagnetic Theory. World Scientific. p. 50. ISBN 978-981-02-4471-2.
Gill, N.S. "Atomism – Pre-Socratic Philosophy of Atomism". About Education. Archived from the original on 10 July 2014. Retrieved 1 April 2014.
Maxwell 1878, p. 9 "Physical science is that department of knowledge which relates to the order of nature, or, in other words, to the regular succession of events."
"Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics". MIT Department of Physics. Archived from the original on 27 February 2014. Retrieved 21 February 2014.
Calculus was independently developed at around the same time by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz; while Leibniz was the first to publish his work and develop much of the notation used for calculus today, Newton was the first to develop calculus and apply it to physical problems. See also Leibniz–Newton calculus controversy
The word "physics" comes from Ancient Greek: φυσική (ἐπιστήμη), romanized: physikḗ (epistḗmē), meaning "knowledge of nature".[8][9][10]
^ See the work of Ilya Prigogine, on 'systems far from equilibrium', and others.
"Cornell, Ketterle, and Wieman Share Nobel Prize for Bose-Einstein Condensates"
Physics is one of the oldest academic disciplines and, through its inclusion of astronomy, perhaps the oldest.[6] Over much of the past two millennia, physics, chemistry, biology, and certain branches of mathematics were a part of natural philosophy, but during the Scientific Revolution in the 17th century these natural sciences emerged as unique research endeavors in their own right.[c] Physics intersects with many interdisciplinary areas of research, such as biophysics and quantum chemistry, and the boundaries of physics are not rigidly defined. New ideas in physics often explain the fundamental mechanisms studied by other sciences[3] and suggest new avenues of research in these and other academic disciplines such as mathematics and philosophy.
Rosen, Joe (2009). Encyclopedia of Physics. Infobase Publishing. p. 247.
^ "CERN experiments observe particle consistent with long-sought Higgs boson". CERN. 4 July 2012. Archived from the original on 14 November 2012. Retrieved 18 October 2012.
Advances in physics often enable advances in new technologies. For example, advances in the understanding of electromagnetism, solid-state physics, and nuclear physics led directly to the development of new products that have dramatically transformed modern-day society, such as television, computers, domestic appliances, and nuclear weapons;[3] advances in thermodynamics led to the development of industrialization; and advances in mechanics inspired the development of calculus.
Clagett, M. (1995). Ancient Egyptian Science. Vol. 2. Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society.
^ Noll notes that some universities still use this title.[37]
"Industrial Physicists: Primarily specializing in Engineering" (PDF). American Institute for Physics. October 2016.
Physicists use the scientific method to test the validity of a physical theory. By using a methodical approach to compare the implications of a theory with the conclusions drawn from its related experiments and observations, physicists are better able to test the validity of a theory in a logical, unbiased, and repeatable way. To that end, experiments are performed and observations are made in order to determine the validity or invalidity of the theory.[58]
^ a b c Young & Freedman 2014, p. 1 "Physics is one of the most fundamental of the sciences. Scientists of all disciplines use the ideas of physics, including chemists who study the structure of molecules, paleontologists who try to reconstruct how dinosaurs walked, and climatologists who study how human activities affect the atmosphere and oceans. Physics is also the foundation of all engineering and technology. No engineer could design a flat-screen TV, an interplanetary spacecraft, or even a better mousetrap without first understanding the basic laws of physics. (...) You will come to see physics as a towering achievement of the human intellect in its quest to understand our world and ourselves."
"BS in Astrophysics". University of Hawaii at Manoa. Archived from the original on 4 April 2016. Retrieved 14 October 2016.
Eames, I.; Flor, J.B. (2011). "New developments in understanding interfacial processes in turbulent flows". Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A. 369 (1937): 702–705. Bibcode:2011RSPTA.369..702E. doi:10.1098/rsta.2010.0332. PMID 21242127. Richard Feynman said that 'Turbulence is the most important unsolved problem of classical physics'
Allen, D. (10 April 1997). "Calculus". Texas A&M University. Retrieved 1 April 2014.
^ Calculus was independently developed at around the same time by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz; while Leibniz was the first to publish his work and develop much of the notation used for calculus today, Newton was the first to develop calculus and apply it to physical problems. See also Leibniz–Newton calculus controversy
"History of Condensed Matter Physics". American Physical Society. Archived from the original on 12 September 2011. Retrieved 31 March 2014.
Mathematics provides a compact and exact language used to describe the order in nature. This was noted and advocated by Pythagoras,[52] Plato,[53] Galileo,[54] and Newton.
Optics, the study of light, is concerned not only with visible light but also with infrared and ultraviolet radiation, which exhibit all of the phenomena of visible light except visibility, e.g., reflection, refraction, interference, diffraction, dispersion, and polarization of light. Heat is a form of energy, the internal energy possessed by the particles of which a substance is composed; thermodynamics deals with the relationships between heat and other forms of energy. Electricity and magnetism have been studied as a single branch of physics since the intimate connection between them was discovered in the early 19th century; an electric current gives rise to a magnetic field, and a changing magnetic field induces an electric current. Electrostatics deals with electric charges at rest, electrodynamics with moving charges, and magnetostatics with magnetic poles at rest.
^ Concepts which are denoted hypothetical can change with time. For example, the atom of nineteenth-century physics was denigrated by some, including Ernst Mach's critique of Ludwig Boltzmann's formulation of statistical mechanics. By the end of World War II, the atom was no longer deemed hypothetical.
Mattis, D.C. (2006). The Theory of Magnetism Made Simple. World Scientific. ISBN 978-981-238-579-6.
^ Smith 2001, Book I [6.85], [6.86], p. 379; Book II, [3.80], p. 453.
5Research											Toggle Research subsection																					5.1Scientific method																											5.2Theory and experiment																											5.3Scope and aims																											5.4Research fields																								5.4.1Nuclear and particle																											5.4.2Atomic, molecular, and optical																											5.4.3Condensed matter																											5.4.4Astrophysics																														5.5Current research
^ Maxwell 1878, p. 9 "Physical science is that department of knowledge which relates to the order of nature, or, in other words, to the regular succession of events."
Feynman 1965, p. 157 "In fact experimenters have a certain individual character. They ... very often do their experiments in a region in which people know the theorist has not made any guesses."
Cho, A. (13 July 2012). "Higgs Boson Makes Its Debut After Decades-Long Search". Science. 337 (6091): 141–143. Bibcode:2012Sci...337..141C. doi:10.1126/science.337.6091.141. PMID 22798574.
Abazov, V.;et al. (DØ Collaboration) (12 June 2007). "Direct observation of the strange 'b' baryon Ξb−{\displaystyle \Xi _{b}^{-}}". Physical Review Letters. 99 (5): 052001. arXiv:0706.1690v2. Bibcode:2007PhRvL..99e2001A. doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.99.052001. PMID 17930744. S2CID 11568965.
Leggett, A.J. (1999). "Superfluidity". Reviews of Modern Physics. 71 (2): S318–S323. Bibcode:1999RvMPS..71..318L. doi:10.1103/RevModPhys.71.S318.
Islamic scholarship inherited Aristotelian physics from the Greeks and during the Islamic Golden Age developed it further, especially placing emphasis on observation and a priori reasoning, developing early forms of the scientific method.
Classical physics includes the traditional branches and topics that were recognized and well-developed before the beginning of the 20th century—classical mechanics, acoustics, optics, thermodynamics, and electromagnetism. Classical mechanics is concerned with bodies acted on by forces and bodies in motion and may be divided into statics (study of the forces on a body or bodies not subject to an acceleration), kinematics (study of motion without regard to its causes), and dynamics (study of motion and the forces that affect it); mechanics may also be divided into solid mechanics and fluid mechanics (known together as continuum mechanics), the latter include such branches as hydrostatics, hydrodynamics, aerodynamics, and pneumatics. Acoustics is the study of how sound is produced, controlled, transmitted and received.[47] Important modern branches of acoustics include ultrasonics, the study of sound waves of very high frequency beyond the range of human hearing; bioacoustics, the physics of animal calls and hearing,[48] and electroacoustics, the manipulation of audible sound waves using electronics.[49]
Smith, A. Mark (2001b). "Alhacen's Theory of Visual Perception: A Critical Edition, with English Translation and Commentary, of the First Three Books of Alhacen's "De aspectibus", the Medieval Latin Version of Ibn al-Haytham's "Kitāb al-Manāẓir": Volume Two". Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. 91 (5): 339–819. doi:10.2307/3657357. JSTOR 3657357.
Laplace, P.S. (1951). A Philosophical Essay on Probabilities. Translated from the 6th French edition by Truscott, F.W. and Emory, F.L. New York: Dover Publications.
"John Philoponus". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2018. Archived from the original on 22 April 2018. Retrieved 11 April 2018.
^ Weinberg, S. (1993). Dreams of a Final Theory: The Search for the Fundamental Laws of Nature. Hutchinson Radius. ISBN 978-0-09-177395-3.
Gμν+Λgμν=κTμν{\displaystyle G_{\mu \nu }+\Lambda g_{\mu \nu }={\kappa }T_{\mu \nu }}
^ At the start of The Feynman Lectures on Physics, Richard Feynman offers the atomic hypothesis as the single most prolific scientific concept.[1]
^ "John Buridan". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2018. Archived from the original on 22 April 2018. Retrieved 11 April 2018.
Natural philosophy has its origins in Greece during the Archaic period (650 BCE – 480 BCE), when pre-Socratic philosophers like Thales rejected non-naturalistic explanations for natural phenomena and proclaimed that every event had a natural cause.[14] They proposed ideas verified by reason and observation, and many of their hypotheses proved successful in experiment;[15] for example, atomism was found to be correct approximately 2000 years after it was proposed by Leucippus and his pupil Democritus.[16]
"Applications of Mathematics to the Sciences". 25 January 2000. Archived from the original on 10 May 2015. Retrieved 30 January 2012.
Schrödinger, E. (1983). My View of the World. Ox Bow Press. ISBN 978-0-918024-30-5.
^ tbcaldwe. "Natural Philosophy: Aristotle | Physics 139". Retrieved 17 December 2022.
^ "Applications of Mathematics to the Sciences". 25 January 2000. Archived from the original on 10 May 2015. Retrieved 30 January 2012.
Howard, Ian; Rogers, Brian (1995). Binocular Vision and Stereopsis. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-508476-4.
Gibney, E. (2015). "LHC 2.0: A new view of the Universe". Nature. 519 (7542): 142–143. Bibcode:2015Natur.519..142G. doi:10.1038/519142a. PMID 25762263.
National Research Council & Committee on Technology for Future Naval Forces 1997, p. 161
The Feynman Lectures on Physics Vol. I Ch. 3: The Relation of Physics to Other Sciences
The term "universe" is defined as everything that physically exists: the entirety of space and time, all forms of matter, energy and momentum, and the physical laws and constants that govern them. However, the term "universe" may also be used in slightly different contextual senses, denoting concepts such as the cosmos or the philosophical world.
H^|ψn(t)⟩=iℏ∂∂t|ψn(t)⟩{\displaystyle {\hat {H}}|\psi _{n}(t)\rangle =i\hbar {\frac {\partial }{\partial t}}|\psi _{n}(t)\rangle }
Schrödinger, E. (1995). The Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics. Ox Bow Press. ISBN 978-1-881987-09-3.
Taylor, P.L.; Heinonen, O. (2002). A Quantum Approach to Condensed Matter Physics. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-77827-5.
^ a b The Feynman Lectures on Physics Vol. I Ch. 3: The Relation of Physics to Other Sciences; see also reductionism and special sciences
"physicist". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. "a scientist who studies or is a specialist in physics"
^ Mastin 2010 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFMastin2010 (help) "Although usually remembered today as a philosopher, Plato was also one of ancient Greece's most important patrons of mathematics. Inspired by Pythagoras, he founded his Academy in Athens in 387 BC, where he stressed mathematics as a way of understanding more about reality. In particular, he was convinced that geometry was the key to unlocking the secrets of the universe. The sign above the Academy entrance read: 'Let no-one ignorant of geometry enter here.'"
^ "Phenomenology". Max Planck Institute for Physics. Archived from the original on 7 March 2016. Retrieved 22 October 2016.
Reading the Principia: The Debate on Newton's Methods for Natural Philosophy from 1687 to 1736
Feynman, Leighton & Sands 1963, p. I-2 "If, in some cataclysm, all [] scientific knowledge were to be destroyed [save] one sentence [...] what statement would contain the most information in the fewest words? I believe it is [...] that all things are made up of atoms – little particles that move around in perpetual motion, attracting each other when they are a little distance apart, but repelling upon being squeezed into one another ..."
"Acoustics and You (A Career in Acoustics?)". Acoustical Society of America. Archived from the original on 4 September 2015. Retrieved 21 May 2013.
"Philip Anderson". Princeton University, Department of Physics. Archived from the original on 8 October 2011. Retrieved 15 October 2012.
Many physicists have written about the philosophical implications of their work, for instance Laplace, who championed causal determinism,[41] and Erwin Schrödinger, who wrote on quantum mechanics.[42][43] The mathematical physicist Roger Penrose has been called a Platonist by Stephen Hawking,[44] a view Penrose discusses in his book, The Road to Reality.[45] Hawking referred to himself as an "unashamed reductionist" and took issue with Penrose's views.[46]
According to Asger Aaboe, the origins of Western astronomy can be found in Mesopotamia, and all Western efforts in the exact sciences are descended from late Babylonian astronomy.[11] Egyptian astronomers left monuments showing knowledge of the constellations and the motions of the celestial bodies,[12] while Greek poet Homer wrote of various celestial objects in his Iliad and Odyssey; later Greek astronomers provided names, which are still used today, for most constellations visible from the Northern Hemisphere.[13]
"John Buridan". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2018. Archived from the original on 22 April 2018. Retrieved 11 April 2018.
^ a b Rosen, Joe (2009). Encyclopedia of Physics. Infobase Publishing. p. 247.
These complex phenomena have received growing attention since the 1970s for several reasons, including the availability of modern mathematical methods and computers, which enabled complex systems to be modeled in new ways. Complex physics has become part of increasingly interdisciplinary research, as exemplified by the study of turbulence in aerodynamics and the observation of pattern formation in biological systems. In the 1932 Annual Review of Fluid Mechanics, Horace Lamb said:[99]
^ "Acoustics and You (A Career in Acoustics?)". Acoustical Society of America. Archived from the original on 4 September 2015. Retrieved 21 May 2013.
^ Gill, N.S. "Atomism – Pre-Socratic Philosophy of Atomism". About Education. Archived from the original on 10 July 2014. Retrieved 1 April 2014.
O'Connor, J.J.; Robertson, E.F. (May 1996b). "A History of Quantum Mechanics". MacTutor History of Mathematics archive. University of St Andrews. Retrieved 1 April 2014.
Physics uses mathematics[55] to organise and formulate experimental results. From those results, precise or estimated solutions are obtained, or quantitative results, from which new predictions can be made and experimentally confirmed or negated. The results from physics experiments are numerical data, with their units of measure and estimates of the errors in the measurements. Technologies based on mathematics, like computation have made computational physics an active area of research.
"Phenomenology". Max Planck Institute for Physics. Archived from the original on 7 March 2016. Retrieved 22 October 2016.
^ Eames, I.; Flor, J.B. (2011). "New developments in understanding interfacial processes in turbulent flows". Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A. 369 (1937): 702–705. Bibcode:2011RSPTA.369..702E. doi:10.1098/rsta.2010.0332. PMID 21242127. Richard Feynman said that 'Turbulence is the most important unsolved problem of classical physics'
^ "Industrial Physicists: Primarily specializing outside of STEM sectors" (PDF). American Institute for Physics. October 2016.
He also devised his own laws of motion that include 1) heavier objects will fall faster, the speed being proportional to the weight and 2) the speed of the object that is falling depends inversely on the density object it is falling through (ex. density of air).[26] He also stated that, when it comes to violent motion (motion of an object when a force is applied to it by a second object) that the speed that object moves, will only be as fast or strong as the measure of force applied to it.[26] This is also seen in the rules of velocity and force that is taught in physics classes today. These rules are not necessarily what we see in our physics today but, they are very similar. It is evident that these rules were the backbone for other scientists to come revise and edit his beliefs.
Penrose, R.; Shimony, A.; Cartwright, N.; Hawking, S. (1997). The Large, the Small and the Human Mind. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-78572-3.
Hawking, S.; Penrose, R. (1996). The Nature of Space and Time. ISBN 978-0-691-05084-3.
Godfrey-Smith 2003, Chapter 14: "Bayesianism and Modern Theories of Evidence"
Maxwell, J.C. (1878). Matter and Motion. D. Van Nostrand. ISBN 978-0-486-66895-6. matter and motion.
Concepts which are denoted hypothetical can change with time. For example, the atom of nineteenth-century physics was denigrated by some, including Ernst Mach's critique of Ludwig Boltzmann's formulation of statistical mechanics. By the end of World War II, the atom was no longer deemed hypothetical.
^ Leggett, A.J. (2006). "What DO we know about high Tc?" (PDF). Nature Physics. 2 (3): 134–136. Bibcode:2006NatPh...2..134L. doi:10.1038/nphys254. S2CID 122055331. Archived from the original (PDF) on 10 June 2010.
Feynman, R.P. (1965). The Character of Physical Law. ISBN 978-0-262-56003-0.
^ Toraldo Di Francia 1976, p. 10 'Philosophy is written in that great book which ever lies before our eyes. I mean the universe, but we cannot understand it if we do not first learn the language and grasp the symbols in which it is written. This book is written in the mathematical language, and the symbols are triangles, circles, and other geometrical figures, without whose help it is humanly impossible to comprehend a single word of it, and without which one wanders in vain through a dark labyrinth.' – Galileo (1623), The Assayer"
"The Standard Model". DONUT. Fermilab. 29 June 2001. Archived from the original on 31 May 2014. Retrieved 1 April 2014.
Wolf, S.A.; Chtchelkanova, A.Y.; Treger, D.M. (2006). "Spintronics—A retrospective and perspective" (PDF). IBM Journal of Research and Development. 50: 101–110. doi:10.1147/rd.501.0101. S2CID 41178069. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 September 2020.
"NASA – Q&A on the GLAST Mission". Nasa: Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope. NASA. 28 August 2008. Archived from the original on 25 April 2009. Retrieved 29 April 2009.
Guicciardini, N. (1999). Reading the Principia: The Debate on Newton's Methods for Natural Philosophy from 1687 to 1736. New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 9780521640664.
^ φύσις, φυσική, ἐπιστήμη. Liddell, Henry George; Scott, Robert; A Greek–English Lexicon at the Perseus Project
^ Girvin, Steven M.; Yang, Kun (28 February 2019). Modern Condensed Matter Physics. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-108-57347-4. Archived from the original on 25 February 2021. Retrieved 23 August 2020.
The approach is similar to that of applied mathematics. Applied physicists use physics in scientific research. For instance, people working on accelerator physics might seek to build better particle detectors for research in theoretical physics.
Usenet Physics FAQ – FAQ compiled by sci.physics and other physics newsgroups
^ Gibney, E. (2015). "LHC 2.0: A new view of the Universe". Nature. 519 (7542): 142–143. Bibcode:2015Natur.519..142G. doi:10.1038/519142a. PMID 25762263.
^ Yet, universalism is encouraged in the culture of physics. For example, the World Wide Web, which was innovated at CERN by Tim Berners-Lee, was created in service to the computer infrastructure of CERN, and was/is intended for use by physicists worldwide. The same might be said for arXiv.org
Cajori, Florian (1917). A History of Physics in Its Elementary Branches: Including the Evolution of Physical Laboratories. Macmillan.
Research in physics is continually progressing on a large number of fronts.
Physicists who work at the interplay of theory and experiment are called phenomenologists, who study complex phenomena observed in experiment and work to relate them to a fundamental theory.[61]
Atomic physics studies the electron shells of atoms. Current research focuses on activities in quantum control, cooling and trapping of atoms and ions,[74][75][76] low-temperature collision dynamics and the effects of electron correlation on structure and dynamics. Atomic physics is influenced by the nucleus (see hyperfine splitting), but intra-nuclear phenomena such as fission and fusion are considered part of nuclear physics.
^ The term "universe" is defined as everything that physically exists: the entirety of space and time, all forms of matter, energy and momentum, and the physical laws and constants that govern them. However, the term "universe" may also be used in slightly different contextual senses, denoting concepts such as the cosmos or the philosophical world.
^ See also Nasa – Fermi Science Archived 3 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine and NASA – Scientists Predict Major Discoveries for GLAST Archived 2 March 2009 at the Wayback Machine.
The most familiar examples of condensed phases are solids and liquids, which arise from the bonding by way of the electromagnetic force between atoms.[80] More exotic condensed phases include the superfluid[81] and the Bose–Einstein condensate[82] found in certain atomic systems at very low temperature, the superconducting phase exhibited by conduction electrons in certain materials,[83] and the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic phases of spins on atomic lattices.[84]
"High Energy Particle Physics Group". Institute of Physics. Archived from the original on 29 May 2019. Retrieved 18 October 2012.
^ National Research Council & Committee on Technology for Future Naval Forces 1997, p. 161
Loosely speaking, the laws of classical physics accurately describe systems whose important length scales are greater than the atomic scale and whose motions are much slower than the speed of light. Outside of this domain, observations do not match predictions provided by classical mechanics. Einstein contributed the framework of special relativity, which replaced notions of absolute time and space with spacetime and allowed an accurate description of systems whose components have speeds approaching the speed of light. Planck, Schrödinger, and others introduced quantum mechanics, a probabilistic notion of particles and interactions that allowed an accurate description of atomic and subatomic scales. Later, quantum field theory unified quantum mechanics and special relativity. General relativity allowed for a dynamical, curved spacetime, with which highly massive systems and the large-scale structure of the universe can be well-described. General relativity has not yet been unified with the other fundamental descriptions; several candidate theories of quantum gravity are being developed.
For example, the ancient Chinese observed that certain rocks (lodestone and magnetite) were attracted to one another by an invisible force. This effect was later called magnetism, which was first rigorously studied in the 17th century. But even before the Chinese discovered magnetism, the ancient Greeks knew of other objects such as amber, that when rubbed with fur would cause a similar invisible attraction between the two.[63] This was also first studied rigorously in the 17th century and came to be called electricity. Thus, physics had come to understand two observations of nature in terms of some root cause (electricity and magnetism). However, further work in the 19th century revealed that these two forces were just two different aspects of one force—electromagnetism. This process of "unifying" forces continues today, and electromagnetism and the weak nuclear force are now considered to be two aspects of the electroweak interaction. Physics hopes to find an ultimate reason (theory of everything) for why nature is as it is (see section Current research below for more information).[64]
Contemporary research in physics can be broadly divided into nuclear and particle physics; condensed matter physics; atomic, molecular, and optical physics; astrophysics; and applied physics. Some physics departments also support physics education research and physics outreach.[65]
Honderich, T., ed. (1995). The Oxford Companion to Philosophy (1 ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 474–476. ISBN 978-0-19-866132-0.
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.1Ancient astronomy																											1.2Natural philosophy																											1.3Medieval European and Islamic																											1.4Classical																											1.5Modern
^ Galileo (1638). Two New Sciences. in order to better understand just how conclusive Aristotle's demonstration is, we may, in my opinion, deny both of his assumptions. And as to the first, I greatly doubt that Aristotle ever tested by experiment whether it be true that two stones, one weighing ten times as much as the other, if allowed to fall, at the same instant, from a height of, say, 100 cubits, would so differ in speed that when the heavier had reached the ground, the other would not have fallen more than 10 cubits.Simp. - His language would seem to indicate that he had tried the experiment, because he says: We see the heavier; now the word see shows that he had made the experiment.Sagr. - But I, Simplicio, who have made the test can assure[107] you that a cannon ball weighing one or two hundred pounds, or even more, will not reach the ground by as much as a span ahead of a musket ball weighing only half a pound, provided both are dropped from a height of 200 cubits.
^ Womersley, J. (February 2005). "Beyond the Standard Model" (PDF). Symmetry. Vol. 2, no. 1. pp. 22–25. Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 September 2015.
Echoes of the Ancient Skies: The Astronomy of Lost Civilizations
^ Holzner 2006, p. 7 "Physics is the study of your world and the world and universe around you."
^ "Philip Anderson". Princeton University, Department of Physics. Archived from the original on 8 October 2011. Retrieved 15 October 2012.
Krupp, E.C. (2003). Echoes of the Ancient Skies: The Astronomy of Lost Civilizations. Dover Publications. ISBN 978-0-486-42882-6. Retrieved 31 March 2014.
Alhacen's Theory of Visual Perception: A Critical Edition, with English Translation and Commentary, of the First Three Books of Alhacen's De Aspectibus, the Medieval Latin Version of Ibn al-Haytham's Kitāb al-Manāẓir, 2 vols
Cohen, M.L. (2008). "Fifty Years of Condensed Matter Physics". Physical Review Letters. 101 (5): 25001–25006. Bibcode:2008PhRvL.101y0001C. doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.101.250001. PMID 19113681.
Galileo (1638). Two New Sciences. in order to better understand just how conclusive Aristotle's demonstration is, we may, in my opinion, deny both of his assumptions. And as to the first, I greatly doubt that Aristotle ever tested by experiment whether it be true that two stones, one weighing ten times as much as the other, if allowed to fall, at the same instant, from a height of, say, 100 cubits, would so differ in speed that when the heavier had reached the ground, the other would not have fallen more than 10 cubits.Simp. - His language would seem to indicate that he had tried the experiment, because he says: We see the heavier; now the word see shows that he had made the experiment.Sagr. - But I, Simplicio, who have made the test can assure[107] you that a cannon ball weighing one or two hundred pounds, or even more, will not reach the ground by as much as a span ahead of a musket ball weighing only half a pound, provided both are dropped from a height of 200 cubits.
^ "NASA – Q&A on the GLAST Mission". Nasa: Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope. NASA. 28 August 2008. Archived from the original on 25 April 2009. Retrieved 29 April 2009.
"Korea University, Physics AMO Group". Archived from the original on 1 March 2014. Retrieved 21 February 2014.
National Research Council & Committee on Technology for Future Naval Forces 1997
Physics at MIT OpenCourseWare – Online course material from Massachusetts Institute of Technology
The Western Roman Empire fell in the fifth century, and this resulted in a decline in intellectual pursuits in the western part of Europe. By contrast, the Eastern Roman Empire (also known as the Byzantine Empire) resisted the attacks from the barbarians, and continued to advance various fields of learning, including physics.[17]
Major developments in this period include the replacement of the geocentric model of the Solar System with the heliocentric Copernican model, the laws governing the motion of planetary bodies (determined by Kepler between 1609 and 1619), Galileo's pioneering work on telescopes and observational astronomy in the 16th and 17th Centuries, and Isaac Newton's discovery and unification of the laws of motion and universal gravitation (that would come to bear his name).[29] Newton also developed calculus,[d] the mathematical study of continuous change, which provided new mathematical methods for solving physical problems.[30]
But there is also considerable interdisciplinarity, so many other important fields are influenced by physics (e.g., the fields of econophysics and sociophysics).
Goldstein, S. (1969). "Fluid Mechanics in the First Half of this Century". Annual Review of Fluid Mechanics. 1 (1): 1–28. Bibcode:1969AnRFM...1....1G. doi:10.1146/annurev.fl.01.010169.000245.
Girvin, Steven M.; Yang, Kun (28 February 2019). Modern Condensed Matter Physics. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-108-57347-4. Archived from the original on 25 February 2021. Retrieved 23 August 2020.
"Aristotle - Physics and metaphysics | Britannica". www.britannica.com. Retrieved 17 December 2022.
A History of Physics in Its Elementary Branches: Including the Evolution of Physical Laboratories
The most notable innovations were in the field of optics and vision, which came from the works of many scientists like Ibn Sahl, Al-Kindi, Ibn al-Haytham, Al-Farisi and Avicenna. The most notable work was The Book of Optics (also known as Kitāb al-Manāẓir), written by Ibn al-Haytham, in which he conclusively disproved the ancient Greek idea about vision and came up with a new theory. In the book, he presented a study of the phenomenon of the camera obscura (his thousand-year-old version of the pinhole camera) and delved further into the way the eye itself works. Using dissections and the knowledge of previous scholars, he was able to begin to explain how light enters the eye. He asserted that the light ray is focused, but the actual explanation of how light projected to the back of the eye had to wait until 1604. His Treatise on Light explained the camera obscura, hundreds of years before the modern development of photography.[27]
Theoretical physics has historically taken inspiration from philosophy; electromagnetism was unified this way.[f] Beyond the known universe, the field of theoretical physics also deals with hypothetical issues,[g] such as parallel universes, a multiverse, and higher dimensions. Theorists invoke these ideas in hopes of solving particular problems with existing theories; they then explore the consequences of these ideas and work toward making testable predictions.
With the standard consensus that the laws of physics are universal and do not change with time, physics can be used to study things that would ordinarily be mired in uncertainty. For example, in the study of the origin of the earth, one can reasonably model earth's mass, temperature, and rate of rotation, as a function of time allowing one to extrapolate forward or backward in time and so predict future or prior events. It also allows for simulations in engineering that drastically speed up the development of a new technology.
Noll, Walter (23 June 2006). "On the Past and Future of Natural Philosophy" (PDF). Journal of Elasticity. 84 (1): 1–11. doi:10.1007/s10659-006-9068-y. S2CID 121957320. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 April 2016.
"CERN experiments observe particle consistent with long-sought Higgs boson". CERN. 4 July 2012. Archived from the original on 14 November 2012. Retrieved 18 October 2012.
Oerter, R. (2006). The Theory of Almost Everything: The Standard Model, the Unsung Triumph of Modern Physics. Pi Press. ISBN 978-0-13-236678-6.
The seven-volume Book of Optics (Kitab al-Manathir) hugely influenced thinking across disciplines from the theory of visual perception to the nature of perspective in medieval art, in both the East and the West, for more than 600 years. Many later European scholars and fellow polymaths, from Robert Grosseteste and Leonardo da Vinci to René Descartes, Johannes Kepler and Isaac Newton, were in his debt. Indeed, the influence of Ibn al-Haytham's Optics ranks alongside that of Newton's work of the same title, published 700 years later.
National Research Council; Committee on Technology for Future Naval Forces (1997). Technology for the United States Navy and Marine Corps, 2000–2035 Becoming a 21st-Century Force: Volume 9: Modeling and Simulation. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. ISBN 978-0-309-05928-2.
^ Godfrey-Smith 2003, Chapter 15: "Empiricism, Naturalism, and Scientific Realism?"
Astronomy is one of the oldest natural sciences. Early civilizations dating back before 3000 BCE, such as the Sumerians, ancient Egyptians, and the Indus Valley Civilisation, had a predictive knowledge and a basic awareness of the motions of the Sun, Moon, and stars. The stars and planets, believed to represent gods, were often worshipped. While the explanations for the observed positions of the stars were often unscientific and lacking in evidence, these early observations laid the foundation for later astronomy, as the stars were found to traverse great circles across the sky,[6] which could not explain the positions of the planets.
Redish, E. "Science and Physics Education Homepages". University of Maryland Physics Education Research Group. Archived from the original on 28 July 2016.
^ "John Philoponus". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2018. Archived from the original on 22 April 2018. Retrieved 11 April 2018.
Ben-Chaim, M. (2004). Experimental Philosophy and the Birth of Empirical Science: Boyle, Locke and Newton. Aldershot: Ashgate Publishing. ISBN 978-0-7546-4091-2. OCLC 53887772.
^ "acoustics". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 18 June 2013. Retrieved 14 June 2013.
^ "Industrial Physicists: Primarily specializing in Physics" (PDF). American Institute for Physics. October 2016.
Grupen, Klaus (10 July 1999). "Instrumentation in Elementary Particle Physics: VIII ICFA School". AIP Conference Proceedings. 536: 3–34. arXiv:physics/9906063. Bibcode:2000AIPC..536....3G. doi:10.1063/1.1361756. S2CID 119476972.
"John Philoponus, Commentary on Aristotle's Physics". Archived from the original on 11 January 2016. Retrieved 15 April 2018.
^ Godfrey-Smith 2003, Chapter 14: "Bayesianism and Modern Theories of Evidence"
Young & Freedman 2014, p. 2 "Physics is an experimental science. Physicists observe the phenomena of nature and try to find patterns that relate these phenomena."
Experimental physics expands, and is expanded by, engineering and technology. Experimental physicists who are involved in basic research design and perform experiments with equipment such as particle accelerators and lasers, whereas those involved in applied research often work in industry, developing technologies such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and transistors. Feynman has noted that experimentalists may seek areas that have not been explored well by theorists.[62]
"Plotting the Future for Computing in High-Energy and Nuclear Physics"
Theorists seek to develop mathematical models that both agree with existing experiments and successfully predict future experimental results, while experimentalists devise and perform experiments to test theoretical predictions and explore new phenomena. Although theory and experiment are developed separately, they strongly affect and depend upon each other. Progress in physics frequently comes about when experimental results defy explanation by existing theories, prompting intense focus on applicable modelling, and when new theories generate experimentally testable predictions, which inspire the development of new experiments (and often related equipment).[60]
^ "physic". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 24 December 2016. Retrieved 1 November 2016.
"physic". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 24 December 2016. Retrieved 1 November 2016.
Smith 2001, Book I [6.85], [6.86], p. 379; Book II, [3.80], p. 453.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"physics". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 24 December 2016. Retrieved 1 November 2016.
^ Feynman 1965, p. 157 "In fact experimenters have a certain individual character. They ... very often do their experiments in a region in which people know the theorist has not made any guesses."
Feynman, R.P.; Leighton, R.B.; Sands, M. (1963). The Feynman Lectures on Physics. Vol. 1. ISBN 978-0-201-02116-5.
Sears and Zemansky's University Physics with Modern Physics Technology Update
Weinberg, S. (1993). Dreams of a Final Theory: The Search for the Fundamental Laws of Nature. Hutchinson Radius. ISBN 978-0-09-177395-3.
A physicist is a scientist who specializes in the field of physics, which encompasses the interactions of matter and energy at all length and time scales in the physical universe.[100][101]Physicists generally are interested in the root or ultimate causes of phenomena, and usually frame their understanding in mathematical terms.Physicists work across a wide range of research fields, spanning all length scales: from sub-atomic and particle physics, through biological physics, to cosmological length scales encompassing the universe as a whole.The field generally includes two types of physicists: experimental physicists who specialize in the observation of natural phenomena and the development and analysis of experiments, and theoretical physicists who specialize in mathematical modeling of physical systems to rationalize, explain and predict natural phenomena.[100]
^ "The Industrial Revolution". Schoolscience.org, Institute of Physics. Archived from the original on 7 April 2014. Retrieved 1 April 2014.
But this is completely erroneous, and our view may be corroborated by actual observation more effectively than by any sort of verbal argument. For if you let fall from the same height two weights of which one is many times as heavy as the other, you will see that the ratio of the times required for the motion does not depend on the ratio of the weights, but that the difference in time is a very small one. And so, if the difference in the weights is not considerable, that is, of one is, let us say, double the other, there will be no difference, or else an imperceptible difference, in time, though the difference in weight is by no means negligible, with one body weighing twice as much as the other[19]
By the 19th century, physics was realized as a discipline distinct from philosophy and the other sciences. Physics, as with the rest of science, relies on philosophy of science and its "scientific method" to advance our knowledge of the physical world.[38] The scientific method employs a priori reasoning as well as a posteriori reasoning and the use of Bayesian inference to measure the validity of a given theory.[39]
The two chief theories of modern physics present a different picture of the concepts of space, time, and matter from that presented by classical physics. Classical mechanics approximates nature as continuous, while quantum theory is concerned with the discrete nature of many phenomena at the atomic and subatomic level and with the complementary aspects of particles and waves in the description of such phenomena. The theory of relativity is concerned with the description of phenomena that take place in a frame of reference that is in motion with respect to an observer; the special theory of relativity is concerned with motion in the absence of gravitational fields and the general theory of relativity with motion and its connection with gravitation. Both quantum theory and the theory of relativity find applications in many areas of modern physics.[51]
A scientific law is a concise verbal or mathematical statement of a relation that expresses a fundamental principle of some theory, such as Newton's law of universal gravitation.[59]
Walsh, K.M. (1 June 2012). "Plotting the Future for Computing in High-Energy and Nuclear Physics". Brookhaven National Laboratory. Archived from the original on 29 July 2016. Retrieved 18 October 2012.
Leggett, A.J. (2006). "What DO we know about high Tc?" (PDF). Nature Physics. 2 (3): 134–136. Bibcode:2006NatPh...2..134L. doi:10.1038/nphys254. S2CID 122055331. Archived from the original (PDF) on 10 June 2010.
Particle physics is the study of the elementary constituents of matter and energy and the interactions between them.[66] In addition, particle physicists design and develop the high-energy accelerators,[67] detectors,[68] and computer programs[69] necessary for this research. The field is also called "high-energy physics" because many elementary particles do not occur naturally but are created only during high-energy collisions of other particles.[70]
Molecular physics focuses on multi-atomic structures and their internal and external interactions with matter and light. Optical physics is distinct from optics in that it tends to focus not on the control of classical light fields by macroscopic objects but on the fundamental properties of optical fields and their interactions with matter in the microscopic realm.
^ "John Philoponus, Commentary on Aristotle's Physics". Archived from the original on 11 January 2016. Retrieved 15 April 2018.
Francis Bacon's 1620 Novum Organum was critical in the development of scientific method.[7]
National Research Council (2007). "What happens far from equilibrium and why". Condensed-Matter and Materials Physics: the science of the world around us. pp. 91–110. doi:10.17226/11967. ISBN 978-0-309-10969-7. Archived from the original on 4 November 2016.– Jaeger, Heinrich M.; Liu, Andrea J. (2010). "Far-From-Equilibrium Physics: An Overview". arXiv:1009.4874 [cond-mat.soft].
Toraldo Di Francia, G. (1976). The Investigation of the Physical World. ISBN 978-0-521-29925-1.
"Industrial Physicists: Primarily specializing in Physics" (PDF). American Institute for Physics. October 2016.
Levy, Barbara G. (December 2001). "Cornell, Ketterle, and Wieman Share Nobel Prize for Bose-Einstein Condensates". Physics Today. 54 (12): 14. Bibcode:2001PhT....54l..14L. doi:10.1063/1.1445529.
Physical cosmology is the study of the formation and evolution of the universe on its largest scales. Albert Einstein's theory of relativity plays a central role in all modern cosmological theories. In the early 20th century, Hubble's discovery that the universe is expanding, as shown by the Hubble diagram, prompted rival explanations known as the steady state universe and the Big Bang.
Physics covers a wide range of phenomena, from elementary particles (such as quarks, neutrinos, and electrons) to the largest superclusters of galaxies. Included in these phenomena are the most basic objects composing all other things. Therefore, physics is sometimes called the "fundamental science".[57] Physics aims to describe the various phenomena that occur in nature in terms of simpler phenomena. Thus, physics aims to both connect the things observable to humans to root causes, and then connect these causes together.
^ "The Standard Model". DONUT. Fermilab. 29 June 2001. Archived from the original on 31 May 2014. Retrieved 1 April 2014.
^ Redish, E. "Science and Physics Education Homepages". University of Maryland Physics Education Research Group. Archived from the original on 28 July 2016.
Smith, A. Mark (2001a). "Alhacen's Theory of Visual Perception: A Critical Edition, with English Translation and Commentary, of the First Three Books of Alhacen's "De aspectibus", the Medieval Latin Version of Ibn al-Haytham's "Kitāb al-Manāẓir": Volume One". Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. 91 (4): i–clxxxi, 1–337. doi:10.2307/3657358. JSTOR 3657358.
Condensed matter physics is the field of physics that deals with the macroscopic physical properties of matter.[77][78] In particular, it is concerned with the "condensed" phases that appear whenever the number of particles in a system is extremely large and the interactions between them are strong.[79]
In particle physics, the first pieces of experimental evidence for physics beyond the Standard Model have begun to appear. Foremost among these are indications that neutrinos have non-zero mass. These experimental results appear to have solved the long-standing solar neutrino problem, and the physics of massive neutrinos remains an area of active theoretical and experimental research. The Large Hadron Collider has already found the Higgs boson, but future research aims to prove or disprove the supersymmetry, which extends the Standard Model of particle physics. Research on the nature of the major mysteries of dark matter and dark energy is also currently ongoing.[94]
The development of physics has answered many questions of early philosophers but has also raised new questions. Study of the philosophical issues surrounding physics, the philosophy of physics, involves issues such as the nature of space and time, determinism, and metaphysical outlooks such as empiricism, naturalism and realism.[40]
Astrophysics and astronomy are the application of the theories and methods of physics to the study of stellar structure, stellar evolution, the origin of the Solar System, and related problems of cosmology. Because astrophysics is a broad subject, astrophysicists typically apply many disciplines of physics, including mechanics, electromagnetism, statistical mechanics, thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, relativity, nuclear and particle physics, and atomic and molecular physics.[87]
^ Francis Bacon's 1620 Novum Organum was critical in the development of scientific method.[7]
^ "Division of Particles & Fields". American Physical Society. Archived from the original on 29 August 2016. Retrieved 18 October 2012.
^ a b "History of Condensed Matter Physics". American Physical Society. Archived from the original on 12 September 2011. Retrieved 31 March 2014.
^ "Dark Matter". NASA. 28 August 2008. Archived from the original on 13 January 2012. Retrieved 30 January 2012.
Tipler, Paul; Llewellyn, Ralph (2003). Modern Physics. W. H. Freeman. ISBN 978-0-7167-4345-3.
Aaboe, A. (1991). "Mesopotamian Mathematics, Astronomy, and Astrology". The Cambridge Ancient History. Vol. III (2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-22717-9.
Classical physics is generally concerned with matter and energy on the normal scale of observation, while much of modern physics is concerned with the behavior of matter and energy under extreme conditions or on a very large or very small scale. For example, atomic and nuclear physics study matter on the smallest scale at which chemical elements can be identified. The physics of elementary particles is on an even smaller scale since it is concerned with the most basic units of matter; this branch of physics is also known as high-energy physics because of the extremely high energies necessary to produce many types of particles in particle accelerators. On this scale, ordinary, commonsensical notions of space, time, matter, and energy are no longer valid.[50]
Nuclear physics is the field of physics that studies the constituents and interactions of atomic nuclei. The most commonly known applications of nuclear physics are nuclear power generation and nuclear weapons technology, but the research has provided application in many fields, including those in nuclear medicine and magnetic resonance imaging, ion implantation in materials engineering, and radiocarbon dating in geology and archaeology.
Numerous possibilities and discoveries are anticipated to emerge from new data from the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope over the upcoming decade and vastly revise or clarify existing models of the universe.[88][89] In particular, the potential for a tremendous discovery surrounding dark matter is possible over the next several years.[90] Fermi will search for evidence that dark matter is composed of weakly interacting massive particles, complementing similar experiments with the Large Hadron Collider and other underground detectors.
Holzner 2006, p. 7 "Physics is the study of your world and the world and universe around you."
The major fields of physics, along with their subfields and the theories and concepts they employ, are shown in the following table.
Physics is used heavily in engineering. For example, statics, a subfield of mechanics, is used in the building of bridges and other static structures. The understanding and use of acoustics results in sound control and better concert halls; similarly, the use of optics creates better optical devices. An understanding of physics makes for more realistic flight simulators, video games, and movies, and is often critical in forensic investigations.
Mastin 2010 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFMastin2010 (help) "Although usually remembered today as a philosopher, Plato was also one of ancient Greece's most important patrons of mathematics. Inspired by Pythagoras, he founded his Academy in Athens in 387 BC, where he stressed mathematics as a way of understanding more about reality. In particular, he was convinced that geometry was the key to unlocking the secrets of the universe. The sign above the Academy entrance read: 'Let no-one ignorant of geometry enter here.'"
Toraldo Di Francia 1976, p. 10 'Philosophy is written in that great book which ever lies before our eyes. I mean the universe, but we cannot understand it if we do not first learn the language and grasp the symbols in which it is written. This book is written in the mathematical language, and the symbols are triangles, circles, and other geometrical figures, without whose help it is humanly impossible to comprehend a single word of it, and without which one wanders in vain through a dark labyrinth.' – Galileo (1623), The Assayer"
See also Nasa – Fermi Science Archived 3 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine and NASA – Scientists Predict Major Discoveries for GLAST Archived 2 March 2009 at the Wayback Machine.
Young, H.D.; Freedman, R.A. (2014). Sears and Zemansky's University Physics with Modern Physics Technology Update (13th ed.). Pearson Education. ISBN 978-1-292-02063-1.
Stajic, Jelena; Coontz, R.; Osborne, I. (8 April 2011). "Happy 100th, Superconductivity!". Science. 332 (6026): 189. Bibcode:2011Sci...332..189S. doi:10.1126/science.332.6026.189. PMID 21474747.
3Core theories											Toggle Core theories subsection																					3.1Classical																											3.2Modern																								3.2.1Fundamental concepts in modern physics																														3.3Difference
Currently, the interactions of elementary particles and fields are described by the Standard Model.[71] The model accounts for the 12 known particles of matter (quarks and leptons) that interact via the strong, weak, and electromagnetic fundamental forces.[71] Dynamics are described in terms of matter particles exchanging gauge bosons (gluons, W and Z bosons, and photons, respectively).[72] The Standard Model also predicts a particle known as the Higgs boson.[71] In July 2012 CERN, the European laboratory for particle physics, announced the detection of a particle consistent with the Higgs boson,[73] an integral part of the Higgs mechanism.
Modern physics began in the early 20th century with the work of Max Planck in quantum theory and Albert Einstein's theory of relativity. Both of these theories came about due to inaccuracies in classical mechanics in certain situations. Classical mechanics predicted that the speed of light depends on the motion of the observer, which could not be resolved with the constant speed predicted by Maxwell's equations of electromagnetism. This discrepancy was corrected by Einstein's theory of special relativity, which replaced classical mechanics for fast-moving bodies and allowed for a constant speed of light.[32] Black-body radiation provided another problem for classical physics, which was corrected when Planck proposed that the excitation of material oscillators is possible only in discrete steps proportional to their frequency. This, along with the photoelectric effect and a complete theory predicting discrete energy levels of electron orbitals, led to the theory of quantum mechanics improving on classical physics at very small scales.[33]
Pure physics is a branch of fundamental science (also called basic science). Physics is also called "the fundamental science" because all branches of natural science like chemistry, astronomy, geology, and biology are constrained by laws of physics.[57] Similarly, chemistry is often called the central science because of its role in linking the physical sciences. For example, chemistry studies properties, structures, and reactions of matter (chemistry's focus on the molecular and atomic scale distinguishes it from physics). Structures are formed because particles exert electrical forces on each other, properties include physical characteristics of given substances, and reactions are bound by laws of physics, like conservation of energy, mass, and charge. Physics is applied in industries like engineering and medicine.
φύσις, φυσική, ἐπιστήμη. Liddell, Henry George; Scott, Robert; A Greek–English Lexicon at the Perseus Project
"Division of Particles & Fields". American Physical Society. Archived from the original on 29 August 2016. Retrieved 18 October 2012.
Although Aristotle’s principles of physics was criticized, it is important to identify his the evidence he based his views off of.  When thinking of the history of science and math, it is notable to acknowledge the contributions made by older scientists. Aristotle’s science was the backbone of the science we learn in schools today. Aristotle published many biological works including The Parts of Animals, in which he discusses both biological science and natural science as well. It is also integral to mention the role Aristotle had in the progression of physics and metaphysics and how his beliefs and findings are still being taught in science classes to this day. The explanations that Aristotle gives for his findings are also very simple. When thinking of the elements, Aristotle believed that each element (earth, fire, water, air) had its own natural place. Meaning that because of the density of these elements, they will revert back to their own specific place in the atmosphere.[24] So, because of their weights, fire would be at the very top, air right underneath fire, then water, then lastly earth. He also stated that when a small amount of one element enters the natural place of another, the less abundant element will automatically go into its own natural place. For example, if there is a fire on the ground, if you pay attention, the flames go straight up into the air as an attempt to go back into its natural place where it belongs. Aristotle called his metaphysics "first philosophy" and characterized it as the study of "being as being".[25] Aristotle defined the paradigm of motion as a being or entity encompassing different areas in the same body. [25]Meaning that if a person is at a certain location (A) they can move to a new location (B) and still take up the same amount of space. This is involved with Aristotle’s belief that motion is a continuum. In terms of matter, Aristotle believed that the change in category (ex. place) and quality (ex. color) of an object is defined as "alteration". But, a change in substance is a change in matter. This is also very close to our idea of matter today.
The discovery by Karl Jansky in 1931 that radio signals were emitted by celestial bodies initiated the science of radio astronomy. Most recently, the frontiers of astronomy have been expanded by space exploration. Perturbations and interference from the earth's atmosphere make space-based observations necessary for infrared, ultraviolet, gamma-ray, and X-ray astronomy.
The translation of The Book of Optics had a huge impact on Europe. From it, later European scholars were able to build devices that replicated those Ibn al-Haytham had built and understand the way light works. From this, important inventions such as eyeglasses, magnifying glasses, telescopes, and cameras were developed.
Condensed matter physics is the largest field of contemporary physics. Historically, condensed matter physics grew out of solid-state physics, which is now considered one of its main subfields.[85] The term condensed matter physics was apparently coined by Philip Anderson when he renamed his research group—previously solid-state theory—in 1967.[86] In 1978, the Division of Solid State Physics of the American Physical Society was renamed as the Division of Condensed Matter Physics.[85] Condensed matter physics has a large overlap with chemistry, materials science, nanotechnology and engineering.[79]
Atomic, molecular, and optical physics (AMO) is the study of matter–matter and light–matter interactions on the scale of single atoms and molecules. The three areas are grouped together because of their interrelationships, the similarity of methods used, and the commonality of their relevant energy scales. All three areas include both classical, semi-classical and quantum treatments; they can treat their subject from a microscopic view (in contrast to a macroscopic view).
At the start of The Feynman Lectures on Physics, Richard Feynman offers the atomic hypothesis as the single most prolific scientific concept.[1]
^ a b "Aristotle - Physics and metaphysics | Britannica". www.britannica.com. Retrieved 17 December 2022.
Hawking & Penrose 1996, p. 4 "I think that Roger is a Platonist at heart but he must answer for himself."
"Bioacoustics – the International Journal of Animal Sound and its Recording"
"Bioacoustics – the International Journal of Animal Sound and its Recording". Taylor & Francis. Archived from the original on 5 September 2012. Retrieved 31 July 2012.
The Feynman Lectures on Physics Vol. I Ch. 3: The Relation of Physics to Other Sciences; see also reductionism and special sciences
^ "physicist". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. "a scientist who studies or is a specialist in physics"
"Industrial Physicists: Primarily specializing outside of STEM sectors" (PDF). American Institute for Physics. October 2016.
O'Connor, J.J.; Robertson, E.F. (February 1996a). "Special Relativity". MacTutor History of Mathematics archive. University of St Andrews. Retrieved 1 April 2014.
Applied physics is a general term for physics research, which is intended for a particular use. An applied physics curriculum usually contains a few classes in an applied discipline, like geology or electrical engineering. It usually differs from engineering in that an applied physicist may not be designing something in particular, but rather is using physics or conducting physics research with the aim of developing new technologies or solving a problem.
^ "BS in Astrophysics". University of Hawaii at Manoa. Archived from the original on 4 April 2016. Retrieved 14 October 2016.
^ Stewart, J. (2001). Intermediate Electromagnetic Theory. World Scientific. p. 50. ISBN 978-981-02-4471-2.
"Has theoretical physics moved too far away from experiments? Is the field entering a crisis and, if so, what should we do about it?". Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics. June 2015. Archived from the original on 21 April 2016.
Halpern, P. (2010). Collider: The Search for the World's Smallest Particles. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0-470-64391-4.
"The Industrial Revolution". Schoolscience.org, Institute of Physics. Archived from the original on 7 April 2014. Retrieved 1 April 2014.
Technology for the United States Navy and Marine Corps, 2000–2035 Becoming a 21st-Century Force: Volume 9: Modeling and Simulation
^ Ellis, G.; Silk, J. (16 December 2014). "Scientific method: Defend the integrity of physics". Nature. 516 (7531): 321–323. Bibcode:2014Natur.516..321E. doi:10.1038/516321a. PMID 25519115.
Smith, A. Mark (2001). Alhacen's Theory of Visual Perception: A Critical Edition, with English Translation and Commentary, of the First Three Books of Alhacen's De Aspectibus, the Medieval Latin Version of Ibn al-Haytham's Kitāb al-Manāẓir, 2 vols. Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 91. Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society. ISBN 978-0-87169-914-5. OCLC 47168716.Smith, A. Mark (2001a). "Alhacen's Theory of Visual Perception: A Critical Edition, with English Translation and Commentary, of the First Three Books of Alhacen's "De aspectibus", the Medieval Latin Version of Ibn al-Haytham's "Kitāb al-Manāẓir": Volume One". Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. 91 (4): i–clxxxi, 1–337. doi:10.2307/3657358. JSTOR 3657358.Smith, A. Mark (2001b). "Alhacen's Theory of Visual Perception: A Critical Edition, with English Translation and Commentary, of the First Three Books of Alhacen's "De aspectibus", the Medieval Latin Version of Ibn al-Haytham's "Kitāb al-Manāẓir": Volume Two". Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. 91 (5): 339–819. doi:10.2307/3657357. JSTOR 3657357.
^ Noll, Walter (23 June 2006). "On the Past and Future of Natural Philosophy" (PDF). Journal of Elasticity. 84 (1): 1–11. doi:10.1007/s10659-006-9068-y. S2CID 121957320. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 April 2016.
^ "Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics". MIT Department of Physics. Archived from the original on 27 February 2014. Retrieved 21 February 2014.
Lindberg, David (1992). The Beginnings of Western Science. University of Chicago Press.
"Dark Matter". NASA. 28 August 2008. Archived from the original on 13 January 2012. Retrieved 30 January 2012.
5.4Research fields																								5.4.1Nuclear and particle																											5.4.2Atomic, molecular, and optical																											5.4.3Condensed matter																											5.4.4Astrophysics
^ "Korea University, Physics AMO Group". Archived from the original on 1 March 2014. Retrieved 21 February 2014.
Although much progress has been made in high-energy, quantum, and astronomical physics, many everyday phenomena involving complexity,[95] chaos,[96] or turbulence[97] are still poorly understood. Complex problems that seem like they could be solved by a clever application of dynamics and mechanics remain unsolved; examples include the formation of sandpiles, nodes in trickling water, the shape of water droplets, mechanisms of surface tension catastrophes, and self-sorting in shaken heterogeneous collections.[i][98]
Yet, universalism is encouraged in the culture of physics. For example, the World Wide Web, which was innovated at CERN by Tim Berners-Lee, was created in service to the computer infrastructure of CERN, and was/is intended for use by physicists worldwide. The same might be said for arXiv.org
Lloyd, G.E.R. (1970). Early Greek Science: Thales to Aristotle. London; New York: Chatto and Windus; W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 978-0-393-00583-7.
Gribbin, J.R.; Gribbin, M.; Gribbin, J. (1998). Q is for Quantum: An Encyclopedia of Particle Physics. Free Press. Bibcode:1999qqep.book.....G. ISBN 978-0-684-85578-3.
Physics is the natural science that studies matter,[a] its fundamental constituents, its motion and behavior through space and time, and the related entities of energy and force.[2] Physics is one of the most fundamental scientific disciplines, with its main goal being to understand how the universe behaves.[b][3][4][5] A scientist who specializes in the field of physics is called a physicist.
Physics became a separate science when early modern Europeans used experimental and quantitative methods to discover what are now considered to be the laws of physics.[28][page needed]
^ "Bioacoustics – the International Journal of Animal Sound and its Recording". Taylor & Francis. Archived from the original on 5 September 2012. Retrieved 31 July 2012.
I am an old man now, and when I die and go to heaven there are two matters on which I hope for enlightenment. One is quantum electrodynamics, and the other is the turbulent motion of fluids. And about the former I am rather optimistic.
See, for example, the influence of Kant and Ritter on Ørsted.
IBEX is already yielding new astrophysical discoveries: "No one knows what is creating the ENA (energetic neutral atoms) ribbon" along the termination shock of the solar wind, "but everyone agrees that it means the textbook picture of the heliosphere—in which the Solar System's enveloping pocket filled with the solar wind's charged particles is plowing through the onrushing 'galactic wind' of the interstellar medium in the shape of a comet—is wrong."[91]
^ "Industrial Physicists: Primarily specializing in Engineering" (PDF). American Institute for Physics. October 2016.
Dijksterhuis, E.J. (1986). The mechanization of the world picture: Pythagoras to Newton. Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-08403-9. Archived from the original on 5 August 2011.
^ Hawking & Penrose 1996, p. 4 "I think that Roger is a Platonist at heart but he must answer for himself."
Since the 20th century, the individual fields of physics have become increasingly specialised, and today most physicists work in a single field for their entire careers. "Universalists" such as Einstein (1879–1955) and Lev Landau (1908–1968), who worked in multiple fields of physics, are now very rare.[h]
Holzner, S. (2006). Physics for Dummies. John Wiley & Sons. Bibcode:2005pfd..book.....H. ISBN 978-0-470-61841-7. Physics is the study of your world and the worldand universe around you.
Kellert, S.H. (1993). In the Wake of Chaos: Unpredictable Order in Dynamical Systems. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-42976-2.
^ Wolf, S.A.; Chtchelkanova, A.Y.; Treger, D.M. (2006). "Spintronics—A retrospective and perspective" (PDF). IBM Journal of Research and Development. 50: 101–110. doi:10.1147/rd.501.0101. S2CID 41178069. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 September 2020.
This page was last edited on 13 March 2023, at 07:28 (UTC).
^ See, for example, the influence of Kant and Ritter on Ørsted.
Though physics deals with a wide variety of systems, certain theories are used by all physicists. Each of these theories was experimentally tested numerous times and found to be an adequate approximation of nature. For instance, the theory of classical mechanics accurately describes the motion of objects, provided they are much larger than atoms and moving at a speed much less than the speed of light. These theories continue to be areas of active research today. Chaos theory, a remarkable aspect of classical mechanics, was discovered in the 20th century, three centuries after the original formulation of classical mechanics by Newton (1642–1727).
"Has theoretical physics moved too far away from experiments? Is the field entering a crisis and, if so, what should we do about it?"
Young & Freedman 2014, p. 1 "Physics is one of the most fundamental of the sciences. Scientists of all disciplines use the ideas of physics, including chemists who study the structure of molecules, paleontologists who try to reconstruct how dinosaurs walked, and climatologists who study how human activities affect the atmosphere and oceans. Physics is also the foundation of all engineering and technology. No engineer could design a flat-screen TV, an interplanetary spacecraft, or even a better mousetrap without first understanding the basic laws of physics. (...) You will come to see physics as a towering achievement of the human intellect in its quest to understand our world and ourselves."
Singer, C. (2008). A Short History of Science to the 19th Century. Streeter Press.
See the work of Ilya Prigogine, on 'systems far from equilibrium', and others.
The discovery of new laws in thermodynamics, chemistry, and electromagnetics resulted from research efforts during the Industrial Revolution as energy needs increased.[31] The laws comprising classical physics remain very widely used for objects on everyday scales travelling at non-relativistic speeds, since they provide a very close approximation in such situations, and theories such as quantum mechanics and the theory of relativity simplify to their classical equivalents at such scales. Inaccuracies in classical mechanics for very small objects and very high velocities led to the development of modern physics in the 20th century.
"Journal of Mathematical Physics". Archived from the original on 18 August 2014. Retrieved 31 March 2014. [Journal of Mathematical Physics] purpose is the publication of papers in mathematical physics — that is, the application of mathematics to problems in physics and the development of mathematical methods suitable for such applications and for the formulation of physical theories.
Quantum mechanics would come to be pioneered by Werner Heisenberg, Erwin Schrödinger and Paul Dirac.[33] From this early work, and work in related fields, the Standard Model of particle physics was derived.[34] Following the discovery of a particle with properties consistent with the Higgs boson at CERN in 2012,[35] all fundamental particles predicted by the standard model, and no others, appear to exist; however, physics beyond the Standard Model, with theories such as supersymmetry, is an active area of research.[36] Areas of mathematics in general are important to this field, such as the study of probabilities and groups.
In many ways, physics stems from ancient Greek philosophy. From Thales' first attempt to characterize matter, to Democritus' deduction that matter ought to reduce to an invariant state the Ptolemaic astronomy of a crystalline firmament, and Aristotle's book Physics (an early book on physics, which attempted to analyze and define motion from a philosophical point of view), various Greek philosophers advanced their own theories of nature. Physics was known as natural philosophy until the late 18th century.[e]
In the sixth century, Isidore of Miletus created an important compilation of Archimedes' works that are copied in the Archimedes Palimpsest.
These central theories are important tools for research into more specialized topics, and any physicist, regardless of their specialization, is expected to be literate in them. These include classical mechanics, quantum mechanics, thermodynamics and statistical mechanics, electromagnetism, and special relativity.
"acoustics". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 18 June 2013. Retrieved 14 June 2013.
In sixth-century Europe John Philoponus, a Byzantine scholar, questioned Aristotle's teaching of physics and noted its flaws. He introduced the theory of impetus. Aristotle's physics was not scrutinized until Philoponus appeared; unlike Aristotle, who based his physics on verbal argument, Philoponus relied on observation. On Aristotle's physics Philoponus wrote:
While physics aims to discover universal laws, its theories lie in explicit domains of applicability.
In condensed matter physics, an important unsolved theoretical problem is that of high-temperature superconductivity.[92] Many condensed matter experiments are aiming to fabricate workable spintronics and quantum computers.[79][93]
^ "High Energy Particle Physics Group". Institute of Physics. Archived from the original on 29 May 2019. Retrieved 18 October 2012.
Kerr, R.A. (16 October 2009). "Tying Up the Solar System With a Ribbon of Charged Particles". Science. 326 (5951): 350–351. doi:10.1126/science.326_350a. PMID 19833930.
The distinction is clear-cut, but not always obvious. For example, mathematical physics is the application of mathematics in physics. Its methods are mathematical, but its subject is physical.[56] The problems in this field start with a "mathematical model of a physical situation" (system) and a "mathematical description of a physical law" that will be applied to that system. Every mathematical statement used for solving has a hard-to-find physical meaning. The final mathematical solution has an easier-to-find meaning, because it is what the solver is looking for.[clarification needed]
^ "Has theoretical physics moved too far away from experiments? Is the field entering a crisis and, if so, what should we do about it?". Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics. June 2015. Archived from the original on 21 April 2016.
Godfrey-Smith, P. (2003). Theory and Reality: An Introduction to the Philosophy of Science. ISBN 978-0-226-30063-4.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"physics". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 24 December 2016. Retrieved 1 November 2016.
The Theory of Almost Everything: The Standard Model, the Unsung Triumph of Modern Physics
Ellis, G.; Silk, J. (16 December 2014). "Scientific method: Defend the integrity of physics". Nature. 516 (7531): 321–323. Bibcode:2014Natur.516..321E. doi:10.1038/516321a. PMID 25519115.
tbcaldwe. "Natural Philosophy: Aristotle | Physics 139". Retrieved 17 December 2022.
Philoponus' criticism of Aristotelian principles of physics served as an inspiration for Galileo Galilei ten centuries later,[20] during the Scientific Revolution. Galileo cited Philoponus substantially in his works when arguing that Aristotelian physics was flawed.[21][22] In the 1300s Jean Buridan, a teacher in the faculty of arts at the University of Paris, developed the concept of impetus. It was a step toward the modern ideas of inertia and momentum.[23]
^ Feynman, Leighton & Sands 1963, p. I-2 "If, in some cataclysm, all [] scientific knowledge were to be destroyed [save] one sentence [...] what statement would contain the most information in the fewest words? I believe it is [...] that all things are made up of atoms – little particles that move around in perpetual motion, attracting each other when they are a little distance apart, but repelling upon being squeezed into one another ..."
Moore, J.T. (2011). Chemistry For Dummies (2 ed.). John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-1-118-00730-3.
The Big Bang was confirmed by the success of Big Bang nucleosynthesis and the discovery of the cosmic microwave background in 1964. The Big Bang model rests on two theoretical pillars: Albert Einstein's general relativity and the cosmological principle. Cosmologists have recently established the ΛCDM model of the evolution of the universe, which includes cosmic inflation, dark energy, and dark matter.
^ Mulkern, Patrick (2010), "Sarah Jane Smith, Quote "Until November 2010, Sarah Jane Smith was the greatest companion, as decided by RT's 2003 online poll"", Radio Times the Companions, no. Special, p. 124
^ Lyon, Shaun (18 July 2006). "More on K9 Series". Outpost Gallifrey News Page. Archived from the original on 30 September 2007. Retrieved 2 August 2006.
In series three (2009), Sarah Jane makes a new enemy in the body-stealing alien Androvax (Mark Goldthorp) as well as a lukewarm ally in the form of the interplanetary police force, the Judoon (from Doctor Who). In the second two-parter, Sarah Jane is able to recover K9 full-time (reflecting a real-world deal struck with the creators of the children's series K-9). In a crossover with the parent show, Sarah Jane reveals her intention to marry her secret fiancé, barrister Peter Dalton, in The Wedding of Sarah Jane Smith. However, Dalton's involvement in Sarah Jane's life proves to be a scheme of The Trickster. The Doctor gatecrashes the wedding to foil The Trickster's plot to make Sarah Jane give up on alien hunting, and explains to Sarah Jane that The Trickster is a powerful member of the extra-dimensional so-called Pantheon of Discord. The serial clarifies that Sarah Jane owes her independent wealth to her Aunt Lavina's will. In 'Sarah-lite' two-parter Mona Lisa's Revenge, Sarah Jane and Luke have their first argument as he progresses into his teenage years; they argue about the cleanliness of Luke's room. In series finale The Gift, though she is reluctant to use weapons or cause harm, when Luke falls deathly ill for the first time ever due to the machinations of the Blathereen-Slitheen, Sarah Jane takes up arms to confront them. In the episode's conclusion, regretfully she is forced to kill them using Mr Smith.
Wicks, Kevin (24 February 2012). "Interview: Toby Whithouse on cast changes for 'Being Human', 'Doctor Who'". BBC America. Archived from the original on 29 July 2012. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
BBC Norfolk: Interview with Elisabeth Sladen regarding Sarah Jane Smith
Sarah Jane then reappears in Doctor Who in the two-part fourth series finale episodes "The Stolen Earth" and "Journey's End" (2008), which crosses over from Torchwood and The Sarah Jane Adventures. When Daleks invade Earth, Sarah Jane is summoned along with UNIT officer Martha Jones (Freema Agyeman) and Torchwood leader Captain Jack Harkness (John Barrowman) by former PM Harriet Jones (Penelope Wilton) to help The Doctor save the universe. On the Dalek ship Davros (Julian Bleach) recognises Sarah Jane from their encounter in the classic series' episode Genesis of the Daleks. In The Sarah Jane Adventures second series (2008), Maria moves away to America in The Last Sontaran, and Sarah Jane befriends new neighbour Rani Chandra (Anjli Mohindra) in The Day of the Clown; the same episode features flashbacks to Sarah Jane's (Jessica Mogridge) childhood in her Aunt Lavinia's home. In The Temptation of Sarah Jane Smith, Sarah Jane saves the lives of her parents, Eddie (Christopher Pizzey) and Barbara (Rosanna Lavelle) in 1951; by doing so she plays into The Trickster's hands, creating a post-apocalyptic alternative universe in the present day. Learning of this however, her parents choose to die, becoming heroes to restore the timeline. In series two finale Enemy of the Bane, Sarah Jane's old friend Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart (Nicholas Courtney) from UNIT assists her against united adversaries Mrs Wormwood and Sontaran Commander Kaagh (Anthony O'Donnell). Sarah Jane feels threatened on a personal level by Mrs Wormwood's claim to be Luke's mother as his creator. Sladen has relatively scarce screen-time in 'Sarah-lite' serial The Mark of the Berserker due to back-to-back filming. Though K9 makes no appearances in series two, he appears to assist Sarah Jane against Ambassador Ranius (Ronnie Corbett) in a mini-episode for Comic Relief (2009).
^ Robertson, Cameron (18 April 2006). "Dr Who's 'cut-out' girl back". The Daily Mirror. Archived from the original on 14 October 2007. Retrieved 21 April 2006.
Mulkern, Patrick (2010), "Sarah Jane Smith, Quote "Until November 2010, Sarah Jane Smith was the greatest companion, as decided by RT's 2003 online poll"", Radio Times the Companions, no. Special, p. 124
In 2012, Toby Whithouse, who wrote Sarah Jane's return to the series in "School Reunion", said she was his favourite companion from the classic series.[33] Concerning the impact of the character, he said:
Sladen's death ended the show in the middle of its fifth series, which aired in 2011. In its premiere story, Sarah Jane adopts a new child in the form of Sky Smith (Sinead Michael), a genetically-engineered alien girl with abilities relating to electromagnetism; the Shopkeeper arranged for their encounter, but declines to explain his motives to Sarah Jane. Sarah Jane's final broadcast appearance comes in series five finale The Man Who Never Was. The final story ends with a short montage of archive footage and audio recordings celebrating Sarah Jane's journey from lone investigator to mother of two surrounded by friends. The series ends with the final caption: "And the story goes on... forever."
In the fourth season (2010) of The Sarah Jane Adventures, Sarah Jane sees Luke off to university in the first two-parter of the series, but continues her adventures alongside Rani and Clyde. The trio encounter the Eleventh Doctor (Matt Smith), as well as Sarah Jane's immediate predecessor as The Doctor's companion, Jo Grant (Katy Manning), in Death of the Doctor; aliens known as the Shansheeth fake The Doctor's death as part of a plot to gain access to the TARDIS using Jo and Sarah Jane's memories.[12] The Empty Planet is this series' 'Sarah-lite' serial; with the rest of the population, Sarah Jane mysteriously vanishes, leaving Rani and Clyde to investigate without her. In Lost in Time, Sarah Jane is sent back in time on a mission from the mysterious Shopkeeper (Cyril Nri). Sarah Jane is convinced to retire by an alien plot in the series finale, earning a new nemesis and doppelgänger in Ruby White (Julie Graham); she is saved from Ruby when Luke drives down from university to her rescue.
"Russell T Davies' Sarah Jane Adventures farewell story is the perfect send-off"
^ Gallagher, William (10 January 2012). "Doctor Who's original Sarah Jane revealed". Radio Times. Archived from the original on 13 January 2012. Retrieved 26 June 2012.
In April 2020, former Doctor Who showrunner Russell T Davies released an epilogue to Sarah Jane's story on the anniversary of Sladen's death, detailing various characters attending Sarah's funeral.[1]
"The Doctor and Jo Grant join CBBC's The Sarah Jane Adventures in special episodes written by Russell T Davies"
^ "7. Doctor Who: The Third Doctor Adventures Volume 07 - Doctor Who - the Third Doctor Adventures - Big Finish".
^ "BBC – Press Office – Doctor Who and the Pescatons". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 9 January 2016.
Russell, Gary (1992), "Editorial Quote "Doctor Who fans constantly voted her the most popular companion of all time."", Doctor Who Magazine Holiday Special, no. Sarah Jane Smith, p. 3
Fuller, Gavin. "Doctor Who — the top ten female assistants". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 6 November 2012. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
In The Sarah Jane Adventures, Sarah Jane investigates alien activity covertly from her manor house in Bannerman Road in Ealing, driving an emerald green Nissan Figaro[7] and with the help of her sentient supercomputer Mr Smith (voice of comedian Alexander Armstrong), as well as an alien activity scanner and sonic lipstick device. In the special premiere episode "Invasion of the Bane" (2007), Sarah Jane adopts a son: Bane creation, genetic archetype and boy genius Luke Smith (Tommy Knight), and befriends her neighbour Maria Jackson (Yasmin Paige) during her investigation of Bane leader Mrs Wormwood (Samantha Bond). Sarah Jane remarks that since meeting them she is no longer content to live alone; she discloses she never married after parting from the Fourth Doctor, to whom no one could ever compare. Sometime between "School Reunion" and "Invasion of the Bane", K9 has left Sarah Jane to close off a black hole, occasionally passing close enough to contact her; due to the concurrent development of the K-9 television series, to which creator Bob Baker owns the rights, K9 only appears in two episodes of the first series.[8][9][10][11] In the first series, Sarah Jane learns how to be a mother to Luke, the while strengthening her friendship with teenage neighbour Maria, the person Sarah Jane "trusts the most". Along with Luke and his friend Clyde Langer (Daniel Anthony) they defeat and repel various threats to the contemporary Earth. Amongst these threats, series one introduces The Trickster (Paul Marc Davis), a cosmic being who makes alterations to the timeline to cause chaos and destruction; he becomes a recurring adversary for Sarah Jane. Sarah Jane finds a new enemy in the Slitheen, a family of criminal aliens originally seen in Doctor Who, and an ally in alien research scientist Professor Rivers (Floella Benjamin). Time travel scenes also depict 13-year-old Sarah Jane (Jessica Ashworth), for whom the death of her best friend Andrea Yates (Jane Asher) gave Sarah Jane her resolve to fight against loss of life.
^ "The Doctor and Jo Grant join CBBC's The Sarah Jane Adventures in special episodes written by Russell T Davies". BBC Press Office. 19 April 2010. Archived from the original on 22 April 2010. Retrieved 19 April 2010.
^ "Why Jon Pertwee made Doctor Who producers fire the 1st Sarah Jane". 16 December 2012. Archived from the original on 24 May 2018. Retrieved 23 May 2018.
^ Barber, Martin (7 June 2006). "Doctor Who: Elisabeth Sladen talks". BBC. Archived from the original on 14 February 2008. Retrieved 7 July 2008.
Sarah Jane next appears in the Tenth Doctor two-part Doctor Who finale, "The End of Time", in 2010. When The Doctor is slowly dying from radiation poisoning, he makes timely visits to his close friends and companions; The Doctor saves Luke's life from an oncoming car on Bannerman Road (an inside joke by Russell T Davies commenting on actors' failure to look for cars before crossing the street because traffic is always stopped for them, something that he believes is especially important in a children’s show) and bids a silent farewell to Luke and to Sarah Jane.
The, Editor (2008), "The Best Doctor Who Companions in the world... Ever, Poll Result-Favourite Companion 1 Sarah Jane Smith , 2 Rose", SFX Collection, no. Doctor Who Special, p. 21 {{citation}}: |first= has generic name (help)
"Russell T Davies creates new series for CBBC, starring Doctor Who's Sarah Jane Smith"
"BBC – Press Office – Doctor Who and the Pescatons". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 9 January 2016.
"7. Doctor Who: The Third Doctor Adventures Volume 07 - Doctor Who - the Third Doctor Adventures - Big Finish"
^ Parker, Kevin W., untitled sidebar, Doctor Who Magazine Winter Special, 1991, Marvel Comics Ltd., p. 7.
Lyon, Shaun (18 July 2006). "More on K9 Series". Outpost Gallifrey News Page. Archived from the original on 30 September 2007. Retrieved 2 August 2006.
Another in-universe article was written by Kevin W. Parker, Roving Reporter,[16] which was a biography of Sarah Jane from her childhood to the early 1990s. She grew up with her aunt Lavinia after her parents died in a car crash. She went to Caterham School For Girls and the University of Nottingham. She was engaged to Andrew Lofts, an aspiring television journalist; it didn't last. She ended up working with UNIT; her exact duties were never described. In the spring of 1981, she left UNIT after being hospitalized from an accident in a quarry.Afterwards she developed a romantic relationship with Harry Sullivan; they parted amicably and were still very fond of each other, and were still close friends, even to the time of the article. She wrote science fiction novels World War Skaro and The Monster at the End of Space which made it onto the Times and New York Times bestseller lists.
Sarah Jane first appears in the Third Doctor serial The Time Warrior (1973–74), where she has managed to infiltrate a top secret research facility by posing as her aunt, Lavinia Smith, a famous virologist. Introduced as an ardent feminist, Sarah Jane sneaks aboard the TARDIS and becomes embroiled in a battle against a militaristic alien Sontaran in the Middle Ages who is kidnapping scientists from the present day. Subsequently, she accompanies The Doctor (Jon Pertwee) on several journeys in the TARDIS, and she also assists the United Nations Intelligence Taskforce led by Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart (Nicholas Courtney) on a number of occasions. After Pertwee's departure, Sladen remains following Season 11 finale Planet of the Spiders (1974), in which The Doctor regenerates for the third time.In season 12's consecutive 1975 serials The Sontaran Experiment, Genesis of the Daleks and Revenge of the Cybermen, Sarah and male companion Harry Sullivan (Ian Marter) face the series' three iconic recurring creatures, the Sontarans, the Daleks and the Cybermen. In Genesis Sarah is present at the creation of the Daleks and meets their creator, Davros (Michael Wisher). Sarah Jane departs in the Season 14 serial The Hand of Fear (1976) after The Doctor receives a summons to his home planet, Gallifrey. Sladen has described Sarah as "a bit of a cardboard cut-out. Each week it used to be, 'Yes Doctor, no Doctor'..."[6]
^ Nazzaro, Joe (28 September 2006). "Who's Sarah Jane Gets Own Show". Sci Fi Wire. Sci Fi Channel. Archived from the original on 14 October 2006. Retrieved 28 September 2006.
Following her tenure as a companion, Sladen reprised the role of Sarah Jane in a pilot episode for an Earth-based spin-off series, K-9 and Company, in 1981. In the pilot episode, titled "A Girl's Best Friend", Sarah Jane receives the robot dog K9 Mark III (John Leeson) as a Christmas present from The Doctor. The pilot did not lead to a series, but the character reappeared in Doctor Who for the 1983 twentieth anniversary story The Five Doctors, in which she is transported to Gallifrey by Lord President Borusa (Philip Latham) to take part in the Game of Rassilon in The Death Zone devised by Time Lord founder Rassilon (Richard Mathews). Here, Sarah is reunited with the Third Doctor, and also meets the First, Second and Fifth. The Five Doctors shows that Sarah Jane still owns and is working with K9. The character made an appearance in the 1993 Children in Need special (a crossover with long-running British soap EastEnders), Dimensions in Time, wherein various Doctors and companions are teleported to Albert Square as part of a plot by the Rani (Kate O'Mara). Though Sladen would not make any more official Doctor Who television appearances until 2006, in the interval the actress reprised her role as Sarah Jane twice on BBC radio with Jon Pertwee, and in a series of Big Finish audio dramas, and in the unofficial direct-to-video spin-off film Downtime (1995) alongside the Brigadier, Second Doctor companion Victoria Waterfield (Deborah Watling) and Leeson in a rare on-screen role.
Doctor Who: The Lost Sarah-Jane! April Walker interviewed, Fantom Publishing, YouTube, 18 May 2020
"6.1. Doctor Who: Return of the Cybermen - Doctor Who - the Lost Stories - Big Finish"
Seddon, Dan (19 April 2020). "Russell T Davies' Sarah Jane Adventures farewell story is the perfect send-off". Digital Spy. Retrieved 20 April 2020.
"Because she was a comic companion; and I think that she, more than any other before her, redefined the role of the companion. And there are elements of Sarah Jane Smith that you can see in every companion afterward down to Amy. She changed the companion from being a rather helpless hysteric to being a feisty, opinionated, strong equal to The Doctor. And, at the time, you know that was quite an extraordinary thing to do. That was not the role the companion, or women, were meant to be playing. They were meant to be playing the victim, they were meant to be decoration. I think what Lis Sladen did with that character is quite extraordinary. We forget how revolutionary she was at the time."[33]
Milmo, Cahal (24 April 2006). "Doctor Who's K-9 sidekick is dragged into 21st century in computer-designed cartoon". The Independent. Archived from the original on 17 October 2007. Retrieved 24 April 2006.
^ Martin, Daniel (28 March 2007). "Doctor Who: the five best and worst companions". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 30 October 2013. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
Sarah Jane appears in two audio stories based on The Sarah Jane Adventures, released in November 2007 on CD: The Glittering Storm by Stephen Cole and The Thirteenth Stone by Justin Richards, with both stories read by series star Elisabeth Sladen. This is the first time that BBC Audiobooks have commissioned new content for exclusive release on audio.[19] Further pairs of audio stories were released every year until 2010, again all read by Sladen.[19] In 2011, two audio stories were read by Daniel Anthony and Anjii Mohindra.
Doctor Who"School Reunion""The Stolen Earth" / "Journey's End""The End of Time"
Griffiths, Peter (2009), "The Mighty 200 Survey, Poll Result-Favourite Companion 1 Sarah Jane Smith , 2 Donna Noble", Doctor Who Magazine, no. 414, p. 21
^ "11 December 2006". Blue Peter. 11 December 2006. CBBC.
"'Doctor Who' Fans Honor Elisabeth Sladen After Release of 'Farewell, Sarah Jane'"
Following Russell T Davies' 2005 Doctor Who revival, Sladen returned to the show in the Series 2 episode "School Reunion" (2006). "School Reunion" revisits Sarah Jane, still working alongside K9 since The Five Doctors, when she encounters the Tenth Doctor (David Tennant) while they both investigate mysterious goings on at a school run by Headmaster Finch (Anthony Head). Exposition in the episode reveals that, having waited years for The Doctor to return to her, Sarah Jane assumed he had died, though later came to suspect his involvement when witnessing the alien spaceship above London in Doctor Who Christmas special "The Christmas Invasion". On meeting Sarah Jane, current companion Rose (Billie Piper) reflects on her future after The Doctor. Though K9 Mark III still assists Sarah Jane, he has fallen into disrepair; after K9 Mark III sacrifices himself to save Sarah Jane and The Doctor, The Doctor leaves Sarah Jane a new K9 model, K9 Mark IV, and takes her advice by inviting Rose's boyfriend Mickey Smith (Noel Clarke) aboard the TARDIS as his second companion. The success of "School Reunion" led to the development of The Sarah Jane Adventures, starring Sladen as Sarah Jane, produced by BBC Wales for CBBC.
^ Mulkern, Patrick (2010), "Rose, Quote "Rose was voted the number one companion in RT's online poll"", Radio Times the Companions, no. Special, p. 121
The cast and writers of The Sarah Jane Adventures produced a special 2020 webcast epilogue for the show with a mix of narrated and acted elements entitled "Farewell, Sarah Jane". In the story, Sarah Jane's friends and many past companions of the Doctor return to London to attend her funeral.[13][14]
^ Jones, Paul (16 November 2010). "Billie Piper's Rose Tyler voted the best Doctor Who companion". Radio Times. Archived from the original on 10 November 2013.
^ a b Wicks, Kevin (24 February 2012). "Interview: Toby Whithouse on cast changes for 'Being Human', 'Doctor Who'". BBC America. Archived from the original on 29 July 2012. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
This page was last edited on 9 March 2023, at 00:52 (UTC).
"7. Doctor Who: The Third Doctor Adventures Volume 07 - Doctor Who - the Third Doctor Adventures - Big Finish".
Stories written as in-universe articles in Doctor Who Magazine Winter Special 1991 (subtitled "UNIT Exposed"), made statements about Sarah Jane's life after leaving the Fourth Doctor. She wrote a history of UNIT, Fighting for Humankind ("heavily vetted and evidently subjected to considerable censorship"), as well as a series of science fiction novels. These featured an extraterrestrial called The Doctor and his companion Nicola Jones, who frequently encountered WIN (World Investigative Network), commanded by General Lutwidge-Douglas. Titles included Day of the Dinosaurs, Sutekh the Destroyer and The North Sea Monster.[15]
Sarah Jane Smith was consistently voted the most popular Doctor Who companion until the advent of the new series in 2005. Even in more recent times the character has continued to vie in popularity with Rose Tyler, Donna Noble, and Ace.[22][23][24][25][26][27][28][29] Sladen felt that part of her popularity was working alongside Pertwee and Baker, who were popular Doctors.[30] Daniel Martin of The Guardian named her the best companion in 2007, writing that her "jolly-hockey-sticks good nature" made her so beloved.[31] The Daily Telegraph's Gavin Fuller also ranked Sarah Jane number one, praising Sladen's portrayal and saying that she displayed "great determination and bravery".[32]
Online TV Interview on Liverpool Reporter hosted by Jonathan Thompson with Elisabeth Sladen in 2006
Doctor Who: Invasion of the Dinosaurs. BBC DVD/2Entertain 2012. ISBN 0-7806-8441-9
She also appears, voiced by Sladen, in her own range of Big Finish audio dramas, consisting of nine stories released between 2002 and 2006.[18] This series came to an unexpected end when the character was given her own television series, The Sarah Jane Adventures, detailed above. There are loose allusions to the audio series in the television series, including Sarah Jane's ownership of a Volkswagen.
"Why Jon Pertwee made Doctor Who producers fire the 1st Sarah Jane". 16 December 2012. Archived from the original on 24 May 2018. Retrieved 23 May 2018.
^ Fuller, Gavin. "Doctor Who — the top ten female assistants". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 6 November 2012. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
Martin, Daniel (28 March 2007). "Doctor Who: the five best and worst companions". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 30 October 2013. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
Sarah Jane Smith is a fictional character played by Elisabeth Sladen in the long-running BBC Television science fiction series Doctor Who and two of its spin-offs. Sarah Jane is a dogged investigative journalist who first encounters alien time traveller the Doctor while trying to break a story on a top secret research facility, and subsequently becomes his travelling companion on a series of adventures spanning the breadth of space and time. After travelling with The Doctor in four seasons of the show they suddenly part ways, and after this she continues to investigate strange goings-on back on Earth. Over time, Sarah Jane establishes herself as a committed defender of Earth from alien invasions and other threats, occasionally reuniting with The Doctor in the course of her own adventures, all the while continuing to work as a freelance investigative journalist.
Mulkern, Patrick (2010), "Rose, Quote "Rose was voted the number one companion in RT's online poll"", Radio Times the Companions, no. Special, p. 121
^ Milmo, Cahal (24 April 2006). "Doctor Who's K-9 sidekick is dragged into 21st century in computer-designed cartoon". The Independent. Archived from the original on 17 October 2007. Retrieved 24 April 2006.
"6.1. Doctor Who: Return of the Cybermen - Doctor Who - the Lost Stories - Big Finish".
Spilsbury, Tom (2007), "2006 Season Survey, Poll Result-Favourite Companion 1 Rose, 2 Sarah Jane Smith. Quote "previous winners SJS and Ace"", Doctor Who Magazine, no. 377, p. 51
Sladen's daughter Sadie Miller took over the role of Sarah Jane Smith for Big Finish audio dramas in 2021, first in Return of the Cybermen in March, a reworking of Gerry Davis' 1974 original script which was eventually filmed as Revenge of the Cybermen, with Tom Baker as the fourth Doctor;[20] and then in The Third Doctor Adventures in May, with Tim Treloar as the third Doctor.[21]
^ Griffiths, Peter (2009), "The Mighty 200 Survey, Poll Result-Favourite Companion 1 Sarah Jane Smith , 2 Donna Noble", Doctor Who Magazine, no. 414, p. 21
Though there are as yet no original Sarah Jane Adventures novels, many of the television episodes have been novelised.
"Interview: Toby Whithouse on cast changes for 'Being Human', 'Doctor Who'"
"BBC One - Doctor Who, Farewell Sarah Jane". BBC. Retrieved 20 April 2020.
^ "6.1. Doctor Who: Return of the Cybermen - Doctor Who - the Lost Stories - Big Finish".
"BBC – Press Office – Doctor Who and the Pescatons"
"Sarah Jane Smith — Released Items". Big Finish. Archived from the original on 22 August 2012. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
"Russell T Davies creates new series for CBBC, starring Doctor Who's Sarah Jane Smith" (Press release). BBC. 14 September 2006. Archived from the original on 17 November 2006. Retrieved 14 September 2006.
Barber, Martin (7 June 2006). "Doctor Who: Elisabeth Sladen talks". BBC. Archived from the original on 14 February 2008. Retrieved 7 July 2008.
Jones, Paul (16 November 2010). "Billie Piper's Rose Tyler voted the best Doctor Who companion". Radio Times. Archived from the original on 10 November 2013.
"Billie Piper's Rose Tyler voted the best Doctor Who companion"
2.1Television																								2.1.11973–1976, 1981, 1983; introduction and classic run																											2.1.22006–2011, 2020; revived series and spin-off
^ "BBC One - Doctor Who, Farewell Sarah Jane". BBC. Retrieved 20 April 2020.
2Appearances											Toggle Appearances subsection																					2.1Television																								2.1.11973–1976, 1981, 1983; introduction and classic run																											2.1.22006–2011, 2020; revived series and spin-off																														2.2Literature																											2.3Audio drama
^ "Russell T Davies creates new series for CBBC, starring Doctor Who's Sarah Jane Smith" (Press release). BBC. 14 September 2006. Archived from the original on 17 November 2006. Retrieved 14 September 2006.
"Doctor Who's K-9 sidekick is dragged into 21st century in computer-designed cartoon"
The, Editor (22–28 November 2003), "My favourite, Poll result -Favourite Companion 1 Sarah Jane Smith , 2 K9", Radio Times, no. Doctor Who 16 page pull out, p. 5 {{citation}}: |first= has generic name (help)
The canonicity of Sarah Jane's appearances in the audio dramas is, like all Doctor Who spin-off media, unclear, and they may not even take place in the same continuity as one another. For example, the novels' mention of Sarah Jane as having been married is contradicted by the later Sarah Jane Smith audio play Dreamland, and the Sarah Jane Adventures episode "Invasion of the Bane".
Parker, Kevin W., untitled sidebar, Doctor Who Magazine Winter Special, 1991, Marvel Comics Ltd., p. 7.
Between seasons 13 and 14, Sladen appeared as Sarah Jane, with Tom Baker as the Fourth Doctor, in the audio play The Pescatons, released on LP by The Decca Record Company Limited in 1976.[17] She also appeared with Baker in "The Time Machine", episode three of the BBC Radio 4 series Exploration Earth broadcast on 4 October 1976. Also in 1976 she appeared as Sarah Jane alongside Tom Baker's Doctor in the first ever BBC Enterprises audio spin-off from Doctor Who: a cassette and LP release of an abridged version of Genesis of the Daleks, narrated by Baker. Sarah Jane (played by Sladen) appeared in two BBC Radio plays starring Jon Pertwee as The Doctor in the 1990s: The Paradise of Death and The Ghosts of N-Space.
Sarah Jane is one of the Doctor's longest-serving companions, co-starring in 18 stories (80 episodes) with the third and fourth incarnations of the Doctor, on the programme from 1973 to 1976 (seasons 11 – 14). She and robotic dog K9 appear in the 1981 television pilot K-9 and Company. She returned in the 20th-anniversary Fifth Doctor story The Five Doctors (1983) and the 30th-anniversary story Dimensions in Time (1993), then co-starred in two BBC radio serials with the Third Doctor (The Paradise of Death and The Ghosts of N-Space), and starred in a series of spin-off audio dramas entitled Sarah Jane Smith for independent production company Big Finish. After the television revival of Doctor Who in 2005, she appears in several episodes with the Tenth Doctor, and as the central character of her own series The Sarah Jane Adventures from 2007 to 2011, which included appearances by both the Tenth and Eleventh Doctors.
Nazzaro, Joe (28 September 2006). "Who's Sarah Jane Gets Own Show". Sci Fi Wire. Sci Fi Channel. Archived from the original on 14 October 2006. Retrieved 28 September 2006.
^ Doctor Who: Invasion of the Dinosaurs. BBC DVD/2Entertain 2012. ISBN 0-7806-8441-9
Robertson, Cameron (18 April 2006). "Dr Who's 'cut-out' girl back". The Daily Mirror. Archived from the original on 14 October 2007. Retrieved 21 April 2006.
"The Doctor and Jo Grant join CBBC's The Sarah Jane Adventures in special episodes written by Russell T Davies". BBC Press Office. 19 April 2010. Archived from the original on 22 April 2010. Retrieved 19 April 2010.
^ Russell, Gary (1992), "Editorial Quote "Doctor Who fans constantly voted her the most popular companion of all time."", Doctor Who Magazine Holiday Special, no. Sarah Jane Smith, p. 3
^ Doctor Who: The Lost Sarah-Jane! April Walker interviewed, Fantom Publishing, YouTube, 18 May 2020
Gallagher, William (10 January 2012). "Doctor Who's original Sarah Jane revealed". Radio Times. Archived from the original on 13 January 2012. Retrieved 26 June 2012.
"Why Jon Pertwee made Doctor Who producers fire the 1st Sarah Jane"
^ The, Editor (22–28 November 2003), "My favourite, Poll result -Favourite Companion 1 Sarah Jane Smith , 2 K9", Radio Times, no. Doctor Who 16 page pull out, p. 5 {{citation}}: |first= has generic name (help)
^ Spilsbury, Tom (2007), "2006 Season Survey, Poll Result-Favourite Companion 1 Rose, 2 Sarah Jane Smith. Quote "previous winners SJS and Ace"", Doctor Who Magazine, no. 377, p. 51
^ The, Editor (2008), "The Best Doctor Who Companions in the world... Ever, Poll Result-Favourite Companion 1 Sarah Jane Smith , 2 Rose", SFX Collection, no. Doctor Who Special, p. 21 {{citation}}: |first= has generic name (help)
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Fuster, Jeremy (19 April 2020). "'Doctor Who' Fans Honor Elisabeth Sladen After Release of 'Farewell, Sarah Jane'". TheWrap. The Wrap News Inc. Retrieved 19 October 2020.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Fuster, Jeremy (19 April 2020). "'Doctor Who' Fans Honor Elisabeth Sladen After Release of 'Farewell, Sarah Jane'". TheWrap. The Wrap News Inc. Retrieved 19 October 2020.
Sarah Jane appears in several Doctor Who novels and short stories, notably in the Eighth Doctor Adventures novels Interference: Book One and Interference: Book Two by Lawrence Miles; and the Past Doctor Adventures novel Bullet Time by David A. McIntee, all taking place after she stops travelling with The Doctor. She appears in Ian Marter's Harry Sullivan's War published by Target Books; Marter played companion Harry Sullivan in seven television serials. Different accounts of Sarah Jane's life have been given in the Doctor Who literature. Interference and the Virgin New Adventures novel Christmas on a Rational Planet, also by Miles, suggest that Sarah Jane married someone named Paul Morley sometime between 1996 and 1998 and took his name. In the short story "Lily" by Jackie Marshall, in Big Finish's Short Trips: A Christmas Treasury, the Fifth Doctor pays a visit to an older Sarah Jane, who has a daughter, Lauren, and an autistic granddaughter, Lily; Lauren's father is named Will. In the Past Doctor Adventure Bullet Time, Sarah Jane is apparently killed—although the story is ambiguous about whether she actually dies—in 1997 when she sacrifices herself so that she cannot be used as a hostage to stop the Seventh Doctor from taking action to aid an escaping alien ship, contradicting her other spin-off appearances. However, the novel takes place during a story arc where enemies of The Doctor were attempting to eliminate his companions from the Timeline (revealed in the later novel Sometime Never...), and Sarah Jane's death may have been reversed when those enemies are defeated. In any case, other stories have shown her alive after 1997. Sarah Jane was mentioned in the prologue of the Virgin Publishing novelisation of The Power of the Daleks by John Peel. It revealed that Sarah Jane was working as UNIT's official chronicler and that in "1996" she covered the aftermath of the Cybermen's failed attempt to drain Earth of its energy and the technology left behind in their wake (The Tenth Planet, which was actually set in 1986).
^ "Sarah Jane Smith — Released Items". Big Finish. Archived from the original on 22 August 2012. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
^ Seddon, Dan (19 April 2020). "Russell T Davies' Sarah Jane Adventures farewell story is the perfect send-off". Digital Spy. Retrieved 20 April 2020.
From 2007 to 2011, BBC America broadcast BBC World News America, a live Washington, DC–based program anchored by Matt Frei. Katty Kay served as a Washington-based correspondent. On February 18, 2011, network management announced that BBC World News America would be dropped from BBC America and would instead be broadcasting only on the BBC World News channel and PBS member stations in the United States.[19]
"MiTV Packages - TELBO". Archived from the original on August 3, 2018. Retrieved August 15, 2018.
^ "BBC America aims for bull's-eye of niche sports with darts championship". Sports Business Daily. December 17, 2018. Retrieved December 18, 2018.
"EastEnders axe outrages US fans". The Guardian. September 30, 2003. Retrieved September 10, 2016.
BBC America is an American basic cable network that is jointly owned by BBC Studios and AMC Networks.[1] The channel primarily airs sci-fi and action series and films, as well as selected programs from the BBC (such as its nature documentary series).
"TV Listings- Find Local TV Listings and Watch Full Episodes"
^ "Flow Extended Basic 24 channels". Archived from the original on March 17, 2015. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
^ "Guam Cable TV - Guam Digital Television - GTA Teleguam". gta.net. Retrieved May 10, 2015.
^ "AMC Networks Pays $200M For 49.9% Of BBC America". Deadline.com. October 23, 2014. Retrieved December 18, 2016.
"Programs - BBC America Press Room". Retrieved May 17, 2016.
Some of the programs on the channel are edited either for adult content or to allow for commercials. Occasionally, comedy shows are run in specially formatted 40-minute blocks and a few first-run drama programs are broadcast in a longer block that allows them to run to their original broadcast length. Additional series that has been previously broadcast may periodically return to the schedule as part of the network's rotation of daytime programming.
"Flow Extended Basic 24 channels". Archived from the original on March 17, 2015. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
"TV Listings- Find Local TV Listings and Watch Full Episodes". Zap2It. September 1, 2017.
Leigh Holmwood (April 6, 2009). "Jeremy Paxman's US Newsnight axed in shakeup at BBC America". The Guardian. Retrieved May 10, 2015.
BBC America has also branched into co-producing British series, including Robin Hood, The Musketeers, Killing Eve, Mood and from its fourth series, the revival of Doctor Who (until 2022).[16] They also co-produced the Canadian series Orphan Black.
"Arts, Briefly - A Reprieve for 'EastEnders'". The New York Times. January 31, 2005. Retrieved May 17, 2016.
During major breaking news events, the network sometimes replaces scheduled programs with coverage from BBC World News; the London bombings in July 2005 was one example. BBC World News's American coverage started out sparse, but has expanded within the last decade on several providers throughout the United States, generally alongside BBC America as part of AMC Networks' retransmission consent negotiations (one previous example is New York City-based Cablevision, which did not carry BBC America until August 2011) or BBC World News America, an American-focused news program presented by Katty Kay and usually from Washington, DC, mainly carried by American public television stations through a distribution agreement with Washington PBS member station WETA-TV.
"FAQs". BBC America. Archived from the original on November 7, 2011. Retrieved May 10, 2015.
^ "'BBC World News America' Shifts To BBC World News - February 18, 2011 20:13:35 | Multichannel News". Multichannel.com. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
After CEO Paul Lee was appointed president of ABC Family in 2009, the network appointed Bill Hilary from Comedy Central to serve as its chief executive officer. Hilary appointed Kathryn Mitchell to the new position of general manager. Under Hilary's tenure, BBC America was restructured; it moved its main offices to New York City and had its programming budget increase substantially. The channel was led by Garth Ancier, who served as the president of BBC Worldwide Americas from February 2007 until 2010, when he was succeeded by former MTV Networks executive Herb Scannell. Meanwhile, Perry Simon serves as general manager.[9]
This page was last edited on 4 March 2023, at 23:53 (UTC).
^ "Flow - Grenada - Channel Line-Up". discoverflow.co. Archived from the original on August 15, 2018. Retrieved August 15, 2018.
BBC America was launched on March 29, 1998,[4] presenting a mixture of comedy, drama and lifestyle programs from BBC Television and other British television broadcasters including ITV and Channel 4. In the channel's early days, it focused on repeats of popular lifestyle shows such as Changing Rooms and Ground Force. BBC America's head of television programming later stated that the channel needed to establish a niche, since non-British viewers found the lifestyle shows appealing.[5] Most of the newer programs appeared as part of BBC America's evening schedule.
^ "BBC AMERICA; Alas, 'East Enders'". The New York Times. April 11, 2004.
BBC America used to broadcast BBC World News each Monday through Friday morning from 6:00 to 8:00 am Eastern and Pacific Time. All news programs now air exclusively on the BBC World News channel, also distributed by AMC Networks in the United States.[17]
^ Press, Joy (January 4, 2012). "BBC America gives details about its first original drama, 'Copper'". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved January 17, 2012.
"Entertainment - EastEnders returns to US screens". BBC. June 4, 2004. Retrieved May 10, 2015.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Lieberman, David (October 23, 2014). "AMC Networks Pays $200M For 49.9% Of BBC America". Deadline. Retrieved October 23, 2014.
^ "EastEnders axe outrages US fans". The Guardian. September 30, 2003. Retrieved September 10, 2016.
Press, Joy (January 4, 2012). "BBC America gives details about its first original drama, 'Copper'". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved January 17, 2012.
"Flow - Grenada - Channel Line-Up". discoverflow.co. Archived from the original on August 15, 2018. Retrieved August 15, 2018.
"BBC America aims for bull's-eye of niche sports with darts championship"
^ "'Coronation Street' Episodes Now Available on BritBox a Day After U.K. Debut". The Hollywood Reporter. May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 23, 2017.
The network was in discussions to unveil a weekly news program fronted by Newsnight host Jeremy Paxman, who was to introduce a synopsis of Newsnight items with an international aspect and was expected to bring his brash interviewing style to bear on American politicians. An international edition of Newsnight debuted on February 29, 2008, in the 10-pm time slot. This program was cancelled in November 2008, but the announcement of the program's cancellation was not made until April 2009.[18]
^ WOW :: World On Wireless - Bermuda Archived April 20, 2009, at the Wayback Machine
In the mid-2000s, BBC America produced a few of its own shows along with some joint productions,including Sharpe's Challenge, part of the Sharpe series of made-for-television movies and co-produced with ITV; and The State Within and Jekyll, which were co-productions with the BBC. The first original series produced solely by the channel was Copper, which premiered in the summer of 2012.[15]
"'BBC World News America' Shifts To BBC World News - February 18, 2011 20:13:35 | Multichannel News"
^ a b "Channel Listing - TV - DOCOMO PACIFIC Guam". www.docomopacific.com.
Unlike the BBC's domestic channels in the United Kingdom, BBC America does not receive funding from the British licence fee (which is the principal funding for the BBC's channels within the United Kingdom), as the BBC cannot fund any of its channels that are available outside the United Kingdom.[2] Consequently, BBC America operates as a commercial-supported channel and accepts traditional advertising. It is also funded by television subscription fees.
Lafayette, Jon (April 23, 2021). "BBC America's New Branding Designed To 'Be Brit-ish'". Next TV. Retrieved August 1, 2021.
SXM Channel Line Up Archived April 17, 2016, at the Wayback Machine
"AMC Networks Pays $200M For 49.9% Of BBC America". Deadline.com. October 23, 2014. Retrieved December 18, 2016.
"BBC AMERICA; Alas, 'East Enders'". The New York Times. April 11, 2004.
"Jeremy Paxman's US Newsnight axed in shakeup at BBC America"
^ "BBC Worldwide, ITV SVOD Venture BritBox Launches With $6.99 Monthly Price". The Hollywood Reporter. March 7, 2017. Retrieved May 23, 2017.
^ "Programs - BBC America Press Room". Retrieved May 17, 2016.
"BBC America gives details about its first original drama, 'Copper'"
"BBC Worldwide, ITV SVOD Venture BritBox Launches With $6.99 Monthly Price". The Hollywood Reporter. March 7, 2017. Retrieved May 23, 2017.
^ "MiTV Packages - TELBO". Archived from the original on August 3, 2018. Retrieved August 15, 2018.
BBC America has carried coverage of the PDC World Darts Championship in simulcast with Sky Sports, with preliminary rounds streaming, and the finals airing on television.[20]
^ SXM Channel Line Up Archived April 17, 2016, at the Wayback Machine
In 2014, AMC Networks acquired a 49.9% equity stake in BBC America for $200 million, and replaced Discovery Communications as its managing partner. As part of the deal, AMC Networks also took on the responsibility of negotiating U.S. broadcast and advertising sales for the BBC World News channel. AMC Networks CEO Josh Sapan stated that the deal gave his company "a powerful collection of networks that are among the most critically acclaimed, with distinct dramas and other potent content that creates a deep connection with viewers", while BBC Worldwide CEO Tim Davie considered it "an opportunity to grow the creative quality and ambition from an already high base."[10][11]
"AMC Buys Half of BBC America to Bolster Pay-TV Leverage". Bloomberg.com. October 23, 2014. Retrieved December 18, 2016.
^ "FAQs". BBC America. Archived from the original on November 7, 2011. Retrieved May 10, 2015.
^ "TV Packages & Channel Guide" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on October 26, 2020. Retrieved August 15, 2018.
"'Coronation Street' Episodes Now Available on BritBox a Day After U.K. Debut". The Hollywood Reporter. May 11, 2017. Retrieved May 23, 2017.
"AMC Buys Half of BBC America to Bolster Pay-TV Leverage"
The network removed the British soap opera EastEnders from its schedule in 2003 due to low ratings; however, the program's removal from BBC America provoked complaints from viewers, which caught media attention.[6][7][8]
"Nielsen coverage estimates for September see gains at ESPN networks, drops at MLBN and NFLN". September 10, 2018.
AMC Networks is also a partner in the US operations of BritBox, an over-the-top subscription service focused on British television operated by BBC Studios and ITV plc.[13][14]
BBC America is available in Caribbean countries, such as Bermuda on One Communications's cable service,[21] and the World on Wireless service,[22] as well as the Bahamas on REVTV,[23] in Barbados on Flow,[24] in the Cayman Islands on Logic TV,[25] Grenada on Flow,[26] Telbo MiTV in Bonaire,[27] in Curaçao on Flow[28] and on SXM Cable & Data in Sint Maarten.[29] It is also available in the Pacific in the US territory of Guam on DoCoMo Pacific[30] and GTA Teleguam's IPTV service,[31] as well as in the Northern Marianas on DoCoMo Pacific.[30]
^ Lafayette, Jon (April 23, 2021). "BBC America's New Branding Designed To 'Be Brit-ish'". Next TV. Retrieved August 1, 2021.
^ "Home - BBC America Press". Press.bbcamerica.com. Archived from the original on September 19, 2009. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
^ "Entertainment - EastEnders returns to US screens". BBC. June 4, 2004. Retrieved May 10, 2015.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Lieberman, David (October 23, 2014). "AMC Networks Pays $200M For 49.9% Of BBC America". Deadline. Retrieved October 23, 2014.
"Guam Cable TV - Guam Digital Television - GTA Teleguam". gta.net. Retrieved May 10, 2015.
WOW :: World On Wireless - Bermuda Archived April 20, 2009, at the Wayback Machine
"TV Packages & Channel Guide" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on October 26, 2020. Retrieved August 15, 2018.
"BBC Worldwide, ITV SVOD Venture BritBox Launches With $6.99 Monthly Price"
^ "TV Listings- Find Local TV Listings and Watch Full Episodes". Zap2It. September 1, 2017.
^ "Nielsen coverage estimates for September see gains at ESPN networks, drops at MLBN and NFLN". September 10, 2018.
The weekday morning (6:00–9:00 am Eastern) simulcast used to include BBC World News bulletins, World Business Report, Sport Today, Asia Today, and a one-hour bulletin called World News Today. Most of these were removed from the schedule without any announcement on April 6, 2009. The weekend morning (6:00–6:30 am ET) simulcast was also abruptly dropped on April 4, 2009. According to BBC America, the simulcast was dropped because of disappointing ratings.[18]
"Nielsen coverage estimates for September see gains at ESPN networks, drops at MLBN and NFLN"
"BBC America aims for bull's-eye of niche sports with darts championship". Sports Business Daily. December 17, 2018. Retrieved December 18, 2018.
^ a b Leigh Holmwood (April 6, 2009). "Jeremy Paxman's US Newsnight axed in shakeup at BBC America". The Guardian. Retrieved May 10, 2015.
As of September 2018, BBC America is available to about 80.9 million television households (87.8% of pay television customers) in the United States.[3]
^ "Arts, Briefly - A Reprieve for 'EastEnders'". The New York Times. January 31, 2005. Retrieved May 17, 2016.
"'Coronation Street' Episodes Now Available on BritBox a Day After U.K. Debut"
^ "AMC Buys Half of BBC America to Bolster Pay-TV Leverage". Bloomberg.com. October 23, 2014. Retrieved December 18, 2016.
"'BBC World News America' Shifts To BBC World News - February 18, 2011 20:13:35 | Multichannel News". Multichannel.com. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
On Sunday, April 25, 2021, BBC America unveiled a redesigned logo and tagline - “Brit-ish”.[12]
2Programming											Toggle Programming subsection																					2.1Current																											2.2Original programming and co-productions																											2.3Newscasts																											2.4Sports
"Home - BBC America Press". Press.bbcamerica.com. Archived from the original on September 19, 2009. Retrieved December 17, 2011.
"Guam Cable TV - Guam Digital Television - GTA Teleguam"
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Doctor Who: Best of the Companions! (Television production). BBC America. 28 August 2011.
^ Cockroft, Lucy (16 September 2008), "Stage actor Russell Tovey tipped as the eleventh Doctor Who", The Daily Telegraph, London, archived from the original on 18 September 2008
Steven Moffat, Nick Hurran, Marcus Wilson (23 November 2013). "The Day of the Doctor". Doctor Who. BBC.
"Doctor Who: Matt Smith the best doctor since Tom Baker", Opinion, Shadowlocked, archived from the original on 18 October 2011
Matt Smith's portrayal of the Doctor was met with critical acclaim. Following the broadcast of "The Eleventh Hour",The Daily Telegraph reviewer Benji Wilson opined that "the Doctor is meant to be a mad alien, and Smith looks like one before he even opens his mouth", stating "it was ridiculous but it felt right: mad, alien, brand new but very old. A+ to the casting director. A+ to Smith".[28] In The Guardian, Daniel Martin concurred, stating that "Smith inhabits the role from the moment he pops up...[he] carries off the youthful vigour of a new body and the ancient professorial wisdom with easy panache".[29]
^ "Peter Capaldi: 'I know how to work the Tardis. I've known for a long time'". TheGuardian.com. 16 August 2014.
The Doctor's initial outfit, chosen within the narrative of "The Eleventh Hour" from an array of clothes found in a hospital, is a brown tweed jacket with elbow patches, bow tie, braces, blue trousers and black, ankle-high boots. The details of the outfit vary, switching from a braces and bow tie combination in red to the same in blue. In later stories, a green moleskin overcoat makes its way into the Doctor's ensemble, occasionally replacing the Harris jacket. On other occasions he does not wear a coat and wears a bow-tie and dress shirt.
^ "David Tennant quits as Doctor Who". News. BBC. 29 October 2008. Retrieved 3 January 2009.
^ Masters, Tim (20 November 2008), "Who favourite talks Time Lords", News, UK: The BBC
Eames, Tom (4 August 2013). "'Doctor Who' casting: You want to shock people, says Steven Moffat". Digital Spy. Retrieved 26 December 2013.
Cockroft, Lucy (16 September 2008), "Stage actor Russell Tovey tipped as the eleventh Doctor Who", The Daily Telegraph, London, archived from the original on 18 September 2008
"Doctor Who: The runners and the riders". News. UK: BBC. 30 October 2008. Retrieved 3 January 2009.
"The Doctor and Jo Grant join CBBC's The Sarah Jane Adventures in special episodes written by Russell T Davies"
^ "New Doctor actor is youngest ever". BBC News. UK. 4 January 2009. Retrieved 3 January 2009.
Fuller, Gavin (30 April 2010), "Doctor Who review: Flesh & Stone", Culture, London: The Daily Telegraph
^ Gareth Roberts (24 September 2011). "Open All Hours". Doctor Who Confidential. Series 6. Episode 12.4:52 minutes in. BBC. The Doctor allows Craig to come along and play the part of his companion [...]
"Doctor Who: Matt Smith the best doctor since Tom Baker"
The Eleventh Doctor spends most of his first full episode, "The Eleventh Hour", in the tattered remains of the Tenth Doctor's clothing, leading young Amelia Pond to nickname him "the Raggedy Man."
Like the Tenth Doctor, the Eleventh and Amy (and later Rory) appear in New Series Adventures novels in 2010. The first of these is Apollo 23 by Justin Richards, as well as the Decide Your Destiny series of interactive novels.The character also appears in comic books published in Doctor Who Magazine, Doctor Who Adventures, and he took over from the Tenth Doctor in IDW Publishing's Doctor Who series before BBC Worldwide awarded the license to Titan Magazines. He'll continue to appear in these, as will the Tenth and Twelfth Doctors in their own stories.[26] He appeared in the crossover series Star Trek: The Next Generation/Doctor Who: Assimilation2, where he was working with the crew of the Enterprise-D to defeat a Borg/Cybermen alliance.
^ James T. Cornish (1 August 2014). "Doctor Who Series 8: Everything We Know So Far " Page 9 of 15". Whatculture.com. Retrieved 9 August 2014.
In an interview with Doctor Who Magazine, Steven Moffat revealed that the Eleventh Doctor had an entirely different costume until close to the start of filming. The original look had a swashbuckling feel which Doctor Who Magazine editor Tom Spilsbury described as "a little like something Captain Jack Sparrow wears in the Pirates of the Caribbean movies". However, Matt Smith was unhappy with the costume as he felt it reflected how someone else would dress the Doctor, rather than how the Doctor would dress himself. Smith also mentioned in a 2012 interview that his Doctor was going to have a "very long black leather jacket, but it was too Matrix-style".[13] The eventual costume, in particular the bow-tie, was influenced by Patrick Troughton's Second Doctor, after Matt Smith fell in love with the Troughton story The Tomb of the Cybermen.[14]
"David Tennant quits as Doctor Who". News. BBC. 29 October 2008. Retrieved 3 January 2009.
"The Doctor and Jo Grant join CBBC's The Sarah Jane Adventures in special episodes written by Russell T Davies". BBC Press Office. 19 April 2010. Retrieved 19 April 2010.
"New Doctor actor is youngest ever". BBC News. UK. 4 January 2009. Retrieved 3 January 2009.
Martin, Dan (24 December 2013). "Matt Smith was my ultimate Doctor, and I'll miss him". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 22 February 2016.
Lewinski, John Scott (3 January 2009). "Announces Matt Smith as Next Doctor Who". Wired. Retrieved 2 January 2010.
After appearing in Victorian period clothing throughout "The Snowmen", the Doctor's costume changes to generally more somber colors beginning in "The Bells of Saint John" where he exchanges the monk's robes for an eggplant purple cashmere frock coat and a variety of waistcoats, and bow tie. Amy Pond's reading glasses, which were left behind with the Doctor after Amy and Rory's departure in the episode "The Angels Take Manhattan", are also occasionally worn.
"Doctor Who: Matt Smith's debut in The Eleventh Hour — the verdict"
^ "Out of Time". Doctor Who Confidential. 26 June 2010.42 minutes in. The Doctor: Something drew the TARDIS to this particular date and blew it up. Why? And why now? The Silence, whatever it is, is still out there.Steven Moffat: The whole point of the silence is next series. Also, who is River Song?
^ William Martin (4 August 2014). "'Doctor Who' news summary: Everything we know so far about Peter Capaldi's Doctor". CultBox. Retrieved 9 August 2014.
^ Anderson, Kyle (25 December 2013). "DOCTOR WHO Review: The Time of the Doctor (SPOILERS!)". Nerdist. Archived from the original on 4 January 2014. Retrieved 4 January 2014.
Masters, Tim (20 November 2008), "Who favourite talks Time Lords", News, UK: The BBC
Martin, Daniel (3 April 2010). "Doctor Who: Matt Smith's debut in The Eleventh Hour — the verdict". The Guardian. Retrieved 22 June 2019.
Steven Moffat, Saul Metzstein, Denise Paul, Marcus Wilson (18 May 2013). "The Name of the Doctor". Doctor Who. BBC.
"'Doctor Who' news summary: Everything we know so far about Peter Capaldi's Doctor"
Fuller, Gavin (26 June 2010), "Doctor Who: The Big Bang series finale review", Culture, London: The Daily Telegraph
^ a b c "Matt Smith is the New Doctor". Press Office. UK: BBC. 3 January 2009. Retrieved 3 January 2009.
"Doctor Who Series 8: Everything We Know So Far " Page 9 of 15"
"Out of Time". Doctor Who Confidential. 26 June 2010.42 minutes in. The Doctor: Something drew the TARDIS to this particular date and blew it up. Why? And why now? The Silence, whatever it is, is still out there.Steven Moffat: The whole point of the silence is next series. Also, who is River Song?
^ Wilson, Benji (3 April 2010). "Doctor Who, BBC One, review". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 12 January 2022. Retrieved 22 June 2019.
The Doctor is a very special part, and it takes a very special actor to play him. You need to be old and young at the same time, a boffin and an action hero, a cheeky schoolboy and the wise old man of the universe. As soon as Matt walked through the door, and blew us away with a bold and brand new take on the Time Lord, we knew we had our man.
"Matt Smith is the New Doctor". Press Office. UK: BBC. 3 January 2009. Retrieved 3 January 2009.
In "The Big Bang", the Doctor briefly dons a fez, stating, "I wear a fez now, fezzes are cool." This began a running gag with "cool" headgear, including a beige Stetson, a black top hat, and the recurring fez, most of which were destroyed by River Song.
^ "The Eleventh Doctor". Doctor Who Confidential. Series 4. Episode 15. 3 January 2009. BBC. BBC One.
^ Annaliza Savage (24 March 2010). "Exclusive: New Time Lord's Take on Doctor Who". Wired. Retrieved 26 December 2013.
"Peter Capaldi: 'I know how to work the Tardis. I've known for a long time'"
^ "Doctor Who: The runners and the riders". News. UK: BBC. 30 October 2008. Retrieved 3 January 2009.
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 00:47 (UTC).
^ Steven Moffat, Saul Metzstein, Denise Paul, Marcus Wilson (18 May 2013). "The Name of the Doctor". Doctor Who. BBC.
Martin Anderson of Shadowlocked claimed him to be the best Doctor since "Tom Baker practically redefined the character in the 1970s".[30] Smith's performance in "Flesh and Stone" was acclaimed by Gavin Fuller of The Daily Telegraph, who noted that "Matt Smith's 'quick-paced delivery' is 'a major facet' of the success of the current series."[31] In his review of "The Big Bang", Fuller once again praised Smith's acting."Matt Smith was superb in his scenes where the Doctor sacrifices himself in the Pandorica to rescue the multiverse".[32] Kyle Anderson of Nerdist wrote "I don't know about you all, but the Eleventh Doctor was MY Doctor."[33] Dan Martin of The Guardian also claimed Smith as "my ultimate Doctor."[34]
"An Unsung Who Hero: Madge Arwell | Doctor Who TV". 18 December 2013.
^ "'Doctor Who': Steven Moffat Teases 'Doctor Rude'; New Season 8 Images". Screenrant.com. 4 August 2014. Retrieved 9 August 2014.
Although Steven Moffat anticipated choosing a middle-aged actor for the new Doctor,[10] Smith was aged 26 when cast, making him the youngest actor to portray the Doctor, three years younger than Peter Davison was at the time he began his role as the Fifth Doctor. Show producers were cautious about casting Smith because they felt that a 26-year-old could not play the Doctor adequately; BBC Wales Head of Drama Piers Wenger shared the sentiment, but noted that Smith was capable enough to play the role.[11][4][12] Smith's casting in the role was revealed during an episode of Doctor Who's companion show Doctor Who Confidential, during which he described the role as "a wonderful privilege and challenge that I hope I will thrive on".[4]
^ "Doctor Who travels to Titan Comics". BelfastTelegraph.co.uk. 22 January 2014. Retrieved 29 June 2014.
Anderson, Kyle (25 December 2013). "DOCTOR WHO Review: The Time of the Doctor (SPOILERS!)". Nerdist. Archived from the original on 4 January 2014. Retrieved 4 January 2014.
^ "Doctor Who series 8: Mark Gatiss on Peter Capaldi's Doctor". Den of Geek. 1 August 2014. Retrieved 9 August 2014.
"Doctor Who series 8: Mark Gatiss on Peter Capaldi's Doctor"
David Tennant announced at the National Television Awards on 29 October 2008 that he would be stepping down from portraying the Doctor because he felt that the four years he spent portraying the character was enough.[5] At the time, BBC News published that Paterson Joseph, who appeared in the Doctor Who episodes "Bad Wolf" and "The Parting of the Ways", was the bookmakers' favourite to succeed Tennant,[6] followed by David Morrissey, who would be appearing in the 2008 Christmas special, "The Next Doctor".Other candidates included Sean Pertwee, son of Third Doctor actor Jon Pertwee;[7] Russell Tovey, who portrayed Alonso Frame in the 2007 Christmas special, "Voyage of the Damned";[8] and James McAvoy.[9]
"Matt Smith – One Plus One Interview" (Interview). YouTube.com. Retrieved 29 June 2014.[dead YouTube link]
"'Doctor Who' casting: You want to shock people, says Steven Moffat"
This incarnation's main companions included feisty Scot Amy Pond (Karen Gillan), her husband Rory Williams (Arthur Darvill) and the mysterious Clara Oswald (Jenna-Louise Coleman). He also frequently appeared alongside River Song (Alex Kingston), a fellow time traveller with whom he shared a romantic storyline, and he was the last Doctor to appear alongside the long-serving companion Sarah Jane Smith (Elisabeth Sladen) prior to the actress' death, featuring in two episodes of the spin-off programme The Sarah Jane Adventures.
"Doctor Who series 8: Mark Gatiss on Peter Capaldi's Doctor". Den of Geek. 1 August 2014. Retrieved 9 August 2014.
Sean Pertwee keen on 'Doctor Who' role Ben Rawson-Jones. Digital Spy. 2 December 2007
Annaliza Savage (24 March 2010). "Exclusive: New Time Lord's Take on Doctor Who". Wired. Retrieved 26 December 2013.
The Eleventh Doctor first appears in the final scene of "The End of Time" (2010) when his previous incarnation regenerates. Smith debuts fully in "The Eleventh Hour", where he first meets Amy Pond (Karen Gillan) as a child while investigating a mysterious crack in her wall. Many years later, Amy joins the Doctor as his travelling companion on the eve of her marriage to Rory Williams (Arthur Darvill). In "Victory of the Daleks", he is tricked into spawning a new generation of Daleks. In the two-part story "The Time of Angels" and "Flesh and Stone", he re-encounters future companion River Song (Alex Kingston) and his enemies the Weeping Angels and learns that cracks like the one in Amy's wall are erasing individuals entirely from time and space. After Amy attempts to seduce the Doctor, the Doctor recruits Rory as a second companion from "The Vampires of Venice" up until "Cold Blood", where he is killed protecting the Doctor and is erased from history. The Doctor also confronts his dark side in "Amy's Choice", where he is put through trials by a manifestation of his self-loathing, the Dream Lord (Toby Jones). In the final episodes "The Pandorica Opens" and "The Big Bang", an unknown force makes the TARDIS explode, causing the universe to collapse in on itself. Though he closes the cracks —reversing their effects and preventing the explosion— the Doctor himself is erased from history. River assists Amy in remembering the Doctor back into existence; he returns at her wedding to Rory, and the couple rejoin him as his companions. He next appears later in Death of the Doctor, a two-part story of spin-off series The Sarah Jane Adventures, alongside former companions Sarah Jane Smith (Elisabeth Sladen) and Jo Grant (Katy Manning), while Amy and Rory are on honeymoon.[22]
^ "The Doctor and Jo Grant join CBBC's The Sarah Jane Adventures in special episodes written by Russell T Davies". BBC Press Office. 19 April 2010. Retrieved 19 April 2010.
"'Doctor Who': Steven Moffat Teases 'Doctor Rude'; New Season 8 Images". Screenrant.com. 4 August 2014. Retrieved 9 August 2014.
Wilson, Benji (3 April 2010). "Doctor Who, BBC One, review". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 12 January 2022. Retrieved 22 June 2019.
Series 6 in 2011 continues to examine mysteries left unexplained at the end of Series 5.[23] In "The Impossible Astronaut" and "Day of the Moon", Amy, Rory and River witness a future version of the Doctor murdered, which they vow to keep a secret from the present-day Doctor as they encounter hypnotic aliens called "the Silence". Eventually, Amy unknowingly lets slip that the Doctor dies in "The Almost People", when it also turns out that she is pregnant and has been kidnapped by the nefarious Madame Kovarian (Frances Barber). In "A Good Man Goes to War", the Doctor calls in old favours from across time and space to raise an army to rescue Amy from Demons Run, an asteroid in the 52nd century being used as a base by a religious order, but is unable to rescue her child, Melody Pond. The Doctor also learns that Melody—though Rory and Amy's child—is part Time Lord due to being conceived in the TARDIS, and she will grow up to become River Song. In "Let's Kill Hitler", the Doctor encounters a younger iteration of River and learns she has been conditioned by the Silence, explained to be a religious order, to assassinate him. She nearly succeeds using a kiss of poisoned lipstick before Amy convinces her to save his life instead. The Doctor also learns the circumstances of his death from historical records on a time-travelling shape-shifting robot ship called the Teselecta. In "The God Complex", the Doctor leaves Amy and Rory on Earth when he realises Amy's apotheosis of him endangers their lives. Some time passes before the Doctor is ready to confront his death. In "The Wedding of River Song", he devises an escape by concealing himself within the Teselecta, which is disguised to look like him, to make it seem he is shot and burned as history records. In a doomed alternate reality caused by River's reluctance to shoot the Doctor, the two become married; during the ceremony, she is let in on the Doctor's original plan and helps fake and corroborate his death. The Doctor is then warned by his old friend Dorium Maldovar (Simon Fisher-Becker) that more prophecies still concern him. The Doctor learns he will be asked the oldest question in the universe, "Doctor who?", on the battlefields of Trenzalore; the Silence had intended his death to prevent this.
The Eleventh Doctor is the first of the Doctors to appear in full-on action adventure games. Doctor Who: The Adventure Games is composed of four stories ("episodes"), produced alongside the 2010 series. Smith and Gillan lent their voices and likenesses. The first, City of the Daleks, carries on from the TV episode "Victory of the Daleks" and is a stealth and puzzle game set in 1960s Earth and the Dalek planet of Skaro. The second, Blood of the Cybermen, is the Eleventh Doctor and Amy's first Cyberman story. The third episode is the video game TARDIS, and the fourth is The Shadows of the Vashta Nerada, featuring the titular enemy return in an underwater setting. The fifth Adventure Game The Gunpowder Plot was released on 31 October 2011, again featuring Matt Smith's voice.In May 2012, The Eternity Clock was released for PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, and PC, starring Matt Smith and Alex Kingston.[27]
Executive producer and head writer Steven Moffat on Smith's casting.[4]
To tie into the 50th anniversary of Doctor Who in 2013, Big Finish and AudioGO produced The Time Machine, an audiobook story starring the Eleventh Doctor and narrated by Jenna Coleman. The Eleventh Doctor made his next audio appearance in 2016 for The Churchill Years - starring Ian McNeice narrating in-character as Winston Churchill - and its second series in 2018. He also appeared alongside the Tenth Doctor in The Jago and Litefoot Revival in 2017, narrated by Trevor Baxter and Christopher Benjamin.
^ "Doctor Who: Matt Smith the best doctor since Tom Baker", Opinion, Shadowlocked, archived from the original on 18 October 2011
The depictions of the personalities of the Tenth and Eleventh Doctors shared certain similarities[17][18] e.g. both being youthful, energetic, friendly, childlike, "good boyfriend Doctors", as Steven Moffat described them[19] and, according to Mark Gatiss "very human Doctors" when compared to other incarnations.[20][21] Like his predecessor, when he first regenerates in the final scene of "The End of Time" (2010), the Eleventh Doctor complains that his incarnation is not a "ginger". He also seems surprised at his longer hair, at first mistaking his new body as female, stating, "Hair...I'm a girl!"
"The Eleventh Doctor". Doctor Who Confidential. Series 4. Episode 15. 3 January 2009. BBC. BBC One.
In the show's 50th anniversary special, while investigating a strange occurrence beneath London's National Gallery, the Doctor encounters his past incarnation who fought in the Time War (John Hurt) as well as his immediate previous incarnation (David Tennant). Though the older Doctors berate the 'War Doctor' for his killing both Time Lords and Daleks with a sentient weapon known as the Moment, they ultimately choose to support his decision and forgive themselves for this past atrocity. Led by the Moment into the midst of the Time War, the Doctors realize they have the potential to change its outcome and enlist the aid of their previous incarnations in an uncertain bid to save Gallifrey from destruction. They place the planet in stasis and transport it to a pocket universe, making it appear to be destroyed. As an effect of time travel, only the Eleventh Doctor will remember saving Gallifrey; he learns from a cryptic curator (played by Tom Baker) that his plan worked.[25] In "The Time of the Doctor," the Doctor is lured to what he learns is the planet Trenzalore to decode what he discovers is a message from the displaced Time Lords through the last remaining crack in the universe: the oldest question in the universe, "Doctor who?". Learning that the verification of his identity would allow the Time Lords to return, the Doctor finds out that the signal caught the attention of an assortment of his enemies, who wish to prevent Gallifrey's return, and the powerful Church of the Papal Mainframe, who wish to destroy the planet and avoid the possibility of a new Time War. After attempting to send Clara back to her time, the Doctor spends centuries defending the planet from alien incursions. During this time, a faction of the Church led by the Silence breaks away and attempts to avert these events by destroying the Doctor earlier in his timeline, as seen in series 5 and 6. The Doctor also reveals to Clara he has no regenerations remaining and will likely die in the siege. The siege escalates into all-out war and after centuries pass, only the Daleks remain. Though the heavily aged Doctor anticipates his predestined death on the battlefields of Trenzalore, Clara convinces the Time Lords to give the Doctor a new regeneration cycle as he uses a fiery blast of regenerative energy to destroy the Dalek mothership. The Doctor regains his youth before retiring to the TARDIS to complete the process. He hallucinates a final farewell to Amy Pond and delivers a eulogy to his present incarnation, before abruptly completing his transition into the Twelfth Doctor (Peter Capaldi). He made a reappearance in "Deep Breath" (2014). While adjusting to the new Doctor, Clara receives a phone call from the Eleventh Doctor made moments prior to their final meeting.He asks her to help his new self and not to be afraid of him.
The Eleventh Doctor is an incarnation of the Doctor, theprotagonist of the BBC science fiction television series Doctor Who. He is played by Matt Smith in three series as well as five specials. As with previous incarnations of the Doctor, the character has also appeared in other Doctor Who spin-offs. Smith's portrayal of the Eleventh Doctor has been met with praise.
^ Sean Pertwee keen on 'Doctor Who' role Ben Rawson-Jones. Digital Spy. 2 December 2007
The Eleventh Doctor also appears in a series of audiobooks. The first release of these is The Runaway Train by Oli Smith.
"Peter Capaldi: 'I know how to work the Tardis. I've known for a long time'". TheGuardian.com. 16 August 2014.
^ "Matt Smith – One Plus One Interview" (Interview). YouTube.com. Retrieved 29 June 2014.[dead YouTube link]
^ Martin, Dan (24 December 2013). "Matt Smith was my ultimate Doctor, and I'll miss him". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 22 February 2016.
^ Steven Moffat, Nick Hurran, Marcus Wilson (23 November 2013). "The Day of the Doctor". Doctor Who. BBC.
^ "Doctor Who: The Adventure Games". Retrieved 4 November 2011.
Within the series' narrative, the Doctor is a centuries-old alien Time Lord from the planet Gallifrey who travels in time and space in the TARDIS, frequently with companions. At the end of life, the Doctor regenerates; as a result, the physical appearance and personality of the Doctor changes. Smith's incarnation is a quick-tempered but compassionate character whose youthful appearance is at odds with his more discerning and world-weary temperament.
^ Fuller, Gavin (30 April 2010), "Doctor Who review: Flesh & Stone", Culture, London: The Daily Telegraph
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Doctor Who: Best of the Companions! (Television production). BBC America. 28 August 2011.
^ Martin, Daniel (3 April 2010). "Doctor Who: Matt Smith's debut in The Eleventh Hour — the verdict". The Guardian. Retrieved 22 June 2019.
^ Fuller, Gavin (26 June 2010), "Doctor Who: The Big Bang series finale review", Culture, London: The Daily Telegraph
List of actors considered for the part of the Doctor
Steven Moffat describes the Eleventh Doctor as an "old man trapped in a young man's body" and Matt Smith characterizes him as someone with "a lot of blood on his hands" who copes via constant travelling and thrill-seeking.[15][16]
In the Christmas special "The Doctor, the Widow and the Wardrobe" (2011), the Doctor has Christmas dinner with Amy and Rory, who had been informed by River of his survival. They unite again in the Series 7 premiere "Asylum of the Daleks" (2012), in which the Doctor is erased from the Daleks' memory banks due to the actions of Oswin Oswald (Jenna Coleman), a young woman turned Dalek who had retained her human mind; she subsequently dies. The Doctor then takes Amy and Rory on several adventures, eventually taking them back on as full-time companions in "The Power of Three" before losing them during the events of "The Angels Take Manhattan". The Doctor subsequently "retires" to a secluded lifestyle in Victorian London, until the 2012 Christmas special "The Snowmen," when he is inspired to save the world by a barmaid/governess called Clara (Coleman) who he considers an ideal companion. Mid-adventure, Clara dies, and when the Doctor sees her tombstone, reading "Clara Oswin Oswald", he realizes that Oswin and Clara are the same woman in different moments of time. He resolves to find her again in another era. The Doctor succeeds in "The Bells of Saint John", saving a present-day version of Clara Oswald from agents of the Great Intelligence. He takes her as his companion and attempts to solve the mystery of "the Impossible Girl". The Doctor eventually gets his answer in "The Name of the Doctor" when he is forced by the Great Intelligence to go to Trenzalore, revealed to be the planet on which the Doctor will die. Within the Doctor's tomb, the Great Intelligence uses the dead Doctor's remnants—his disembodied "timestream"—to spread himself across the Doctor's history, turning his victories into defeats. Clara pursues him and is scattered throughout the Doctor's timeline creating Oswin Oswald and Clara Oswin Oswald among numerous other incarnations who undo the Great Intelligence's work. The Doctor has a mournful conversation with River's apparition, giving her closure before entering the timeline to retrieve Clara. However, once he saves her, the Doctor is forced to reveal the existence of a previous incarnation (John Hurt) who broke the promise represented by the name "Doctor"during the Time War of his past.[24]
"'Doctor Who': Steven Moffat Teases 'Doctor Rude'; New Season 8 Images"
"Matt Smith was my ultimate Doctor, and I'll miss him"
"An Unsung Who Hero: Madge Arwell | Doctor Who TV"
"Doctor Who travels to Titan Comics". BelfastTelegraph.co.uk. 22 January 2014. Retrieved 29 June 2014.
James T. Cornish (1 August 2014). "Doctor Who Series 8: Everything We Know So Far " Page 9 of 15". Whatculture.com. Retrieved 9 August 2014.
Gareth Roberts (24 September 2011). "Open All Hours". Doctor Who Confidential. Series 6. Episode 12.4:52 minutes in. BBC. The Doctor allows Craig to come along and play the part of his companion [...]
^ "An Unsung Who Hero: Madge Arwell | Doctor Who TV". 18 December 2013.
^ Eames, Tom (4 August 2013). "'Doctor Who' casting: You want to shock people, says Steven Moffat". Digital Spy. Retrieved 26 December 2013.
William Martin (4 August 2014). "'Doctor Who' news summary: Everything we know so far about Peter Capaldi's Doctor". CultBox. Retrieved 9 August 2014.
The original tweed jacket is lost in the episode "Flesh and Stone" but replaced in "The Vampires of Venice", then becomes a plot point for the story arc for the season. In the Christmas special "A Christmas Carol", which aired the Christmas after the Eleventh Doctor's first series, he wears his most famous "Prince of Wales check" tweed jacket and a 1950s white dress suit. During season six and seven, he alternates the tweed jacket with the green moleskin overcoat. The tweed jacket makes a final appearance in "The Angels Take Manhattan".
^ Lewinski, John Scott (3 January 2009). "Announces Matt Smith as Next Doctor Who". Wired. Retrieved 2 January 2010.
