A party that already has a legal duty to provide money, an object, a service, or a forbearance, does not provide consideration when promising merely to uphold that duty.[7][34][35][36] That legal duty can arise from law, or obligation under a previous contract.
^ Pao On v Lau Yiu Long [1980] AC 614 (PC)
For instance, if A offers B $200 to buy B's mansion, luxury sports car, and private jet, there is still consideration on both sides. A's consideration is $200, and B's consideration is the mansion, car, and jet. Courts in the United States generally leave parties to their own contracts and do not intervene. The old English rule of consideration questioned whether a party gave the value of a peppercorn to the other party. As a result, contracts in the United States have sometimes have had one party pass nominal amounts of consideration, typically citing $1. Thus, licensing contracts that do not involve any money at all often cite as consideration, "for the sum of $1 and other good and valuable consideration."
An agreement which tends to be injurious to the public or against the public good is void. For example, agreements of trading with a foreign enemy, agreement to commit a crime, agreements which interfere with the administration of justice, agreements which interfere with the course of justice, stifling prosecution, maintenance and champerty.[23]
Consideration must move from the promisee but need not flow to the promisor.[8]
Additionally, if A signs a contract with B such that A will paint B's house for $500, A's consideration is the service of painting B's house, and B's consideration is $500 paid to A. Further if A signs a contract with B such that A will not repaint his own house in any other colour than white, and B will pay A $500 per year to keep this deal up, there is also a consideration. Although A did not promise to affirmatively do anything, A did promise not to do something that he was allowed to do, and so A did pass consideration. A's consideration to B is the forbearance in painting his own house in a colour other than white, and B's consideration to A is $500 per year. Conversely, if A signs a contract to buy a car from B for $0, B's consideration is still the car, but A is giving no consideration, and so there is no valid contract. However, if B still gives the title to the car to A, then B cannot take the car back, since, while it may not be a valid contract, it is a valid gift.
Duty of good faith (also implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing or duty to negotiate in good faith)7Contract A and Contract B6
^ De la Bere v Pearson [1908] 1 KB 280
For a detailed and authoritative account of this process, see A. W. B. Simpson, A History of the Common Law of Contract: The Rise of the Action of Assumpsit, (Oxford University Press: Oxford, 1975).
The Atlantic Baron [1979] QB 705 (aka North Ocean Shipping v Hyundai Construction)
Australian Woollen Mills Pty Ltd v The Commonwealth [1954] HCA 20, (1954) 92 CLR 424, High Court (Australia).
^ a b Foakes v Beer [1884] UKHL 1, 9 App Cas 605, (1883-84) LR 9 App Cas 605, (1884) 9 App Cas 605 (16 May 1884)
The consideration involves involuntary labour or otherwise infringes upon the personal liberty of a party to the contract[f]
There are a number of common issues as to whether consideration exists in a contract. Under English law:
Consideration is a concept of English common law and is a necessity for simple contracts but not for special contracts (contracts by deed). The concept has been adopted by other common law jurisdictions.
^ "Contract opposed to public policy can be repudiated by the court of law even if that contract is beneficial for all of the parties to the contract. What considerations and objects are lawful and what not – Newar Marble Industries Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Rajasthan State Electricity Board, Jaipur, 1993 Cr. L.J. 1191 at 1197, 1198 [Raj.]"
^ Chappell & Co Ltd v. Nestle Co Ltd [1959] 2 All ER 701 in which the wrappers from three chocolate bars was held to be part of the consideration for the sale and purchase of a musical recording – although those referencing this case appear to ignore the significance of the three wrappers in relation to Nestle's marketing strategy.
The act must have been done at the promisor’s request
7 Specific to civil law jurisdictions, the American Uniform Commercial Code, and Canadian jurisprudence in both Québec and the common law provinces pertaining to contractual and pre-contractual negotiation
An exception to this rule holds for settlements, such as an accord and satisfaction.If a creditor has a credit against a debtor for $10,000, and offers to settle it for $5,000, it is still binding, if accepted, even though the debtor had a legal duty to repay the entire $10,000.
Suppose B commits a tort against A, causing $5,000 in compensatory damages and $3,000 in punitive damages.Since there is no guarantee that A would win against B if it went to court, A may agree to drop the case if B pays the $5,000 compensatory damages.This is sufficient consideration, since B's consideration is a guaranteed recovery, and A's consideration is that B only has to pay $5,000, instead of $8,000.
5 Explicitly rejected by the UNIDROIT Principles of International Commercial Contracts
Central London Property Trust Ltd. v. High Trees House Ltd.
The court in Currie v Misa[1] declared consideration to be a “Right,Interest,Profit,Benefit, or Forbearance,Detriment,Loss,Responsibility”. Thus, consideration is a promise of something of value given by a promissor in exchange for something of value given by a promisee; and typically the thing of value is goods, money, or an act. Forbearance to act, such as an adult promising to refrain from smoking, is enforceable only if one is thereby surrendering a legal right.[2][3][4]
It involves injury to a person or property of another[b]
4 Specific to the German Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch and other civil codes based on the pandectist tradition
The prime example of this sub-issue is where an uncle gives his thirteen-year-old nephew (a resident of the state of New York) the following offer: "if you do not smoke cigarettes or drink alcohol until your 18th birthday, then I will pay you $5,000". On the nephew's 18th birthday, he tells the uncle to pay up, and the uncle does not pay.In the subsequent lawsuit, the uncle wins, because the nephew, by U.S. criminal law, already had a duty to refrain from smoking cigarettes while under 18 and from drinking alcohol while under age 21.
^ Central London Property Trust Ltd. v. High Trees House Ltd. [1947] KB 130
This deals with two categories. One is agreements restraining enforcement of rights and the other deals with agreements curtailing the period of limitation.
^ Bronaugh R. (1976). Agreement, Mistake, and Objectivity in the Bargain Theory of Conflict. William & Mary Law Review.
Andrew Hennessey v Architectus Group Holdings Pty Ltd [2010] NSWSC 1390, Supreme Court (NSW, Australia)
Agreement, Mistake, and Objectivity in the Bargain Theory of Conflict
Consideration may move from the promisee or any other person. Under Indian law, consideration may be from the promisee of any other person i.e., even a stranger. This means that as long as there is consideration for the promisee, it is immaterial who has furnished it.
If the object or the consideration of an agreement is for doing an act forbidden by law, the agreement is void. for example, A promises B to obtain employment in public service and B promises to pay Rs one lakh to A. The agreement is void as procuring a government job through unlawful means is prohibited.
e.g. P.S. Atiyah, 'Consideration: A Restatement' in Essays on Contract (1986) p.195, Oxford University Press
The consideration includes a marriage or a pecuniary inducement to marry.
Central London Property Trust Ltd v High Trees House Ltd [2007] EWCA Civ 1329, [1947] KB 130, Court of Appeal (England and Wales).
"Supreme Court of Texas (1464-EIGHT, LTD. & MILLIS MANAGEMENT CORP, v. GAIL ANN JOPPICH See section III)"
For example, A borrows Rs.100/— from B and executes a bond to work for B without pay for a period of 2 years. In case of default, A owes the principal sum at once and a huge amount of interest. This contract was held void as it involved injury to the person.
^ Re Casey's Patents (aka Stewart v Casey) [1893] 1 Ch 104
Moral consideration is not sufficient (except for contracts by deed, where "love and affection" is often cited as the [unnecessary] consideration).[citation needed]
^ Central London Property Trust Ltd v High Trees House Ltd [2007] EWCA Civ 1329, [1947] KB 130, Court of Appeal (England and Wales).
^ see Roscorla v Thomas [1842] EWHC J74, (1842) 114 ER 496.
^ German Civil Code § 311, accessed 15 July 2017
This page was last edited on 10 March 2023, at 05:37 (UTC).
^ An agreement which tends to be injurious to the public or against the public good is void. For example, agreements of trading with a foreign enemy, agreement to commit a crime, agreements which interfere with the administration of justice, agreements which interfere with the course of justice, stifling prosecution, maintenance and champerty.[23]
The most noticeable distinction between the English and Indian criteria for consideration is that English law prohibits past consideration while Indian law does not.
It must move at the desire of the promisor.An act constituting consideration must have been done at the desire or request of the promisor. If it is done at the instance of a third party or without the desire of the promisor, it will not be good consideration. For example, A saves B's goods from fire without being ask him to do so. A cannot demand payment for his service.
"Contract opposed to public policy can be repudiated by the court of law even if that contract is beneficial for all of the parties to the contract. What considerations and objects are lawful and what not – Newar Marble Industries Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Rajasthan State Electricity Board, Jaipur, 1993 Cr. L.J. 1191 at 1197, 1198 [Raj.]"
Consideration may be past, present or future. Past consideration is not consideration according to English law.However it is a consideration as per Indian law. Example of past consideration is, A renders some service to B at latter's desire. After a month B promises to compensate A for service rendered to him earlier. When consideration is given simultaneously with promise, it is said to be present consideration .. For example, A receives Rs.50/- in return for which he promises to deliver certain goods to B. The money A receives is the present consideration. When consideration to one party to other is to pass subsequently to the maker of the contract, is said to be future consideration. For example. A promises to deliver certain goods to B aftera week. B promises to pay the price after a fortnight, such consideration is future.
Consideration is not required for a contract under Scots contract law
Payment/conferment of the benefit must have been legally enforceable had it been promised in advance
Agreements for sale or transfer of public offices and title or for procurement of a public recognition like Padma Vibhushan or Padma Shri etc. for monetary consideration is unlawful, being opposed to public policy.
Systems based on Roman law (including Germany[24] and Scotland) do not require consideration, and some commentators consider it unnecessary and have suggested that the doctrine of consideration should be abandoned,[25] and estoppel used to replace it as a basis for contracts.[26] However, legislation, rather than judicial development, has been touted as the only way to remove this entrenched common law doctrine. Lord Justice Denning famously stated that "The doctrine of consideration is too firmly fixed to be overthrown by a side-wind".[27]
^ Australian Woollen Mills Pty Ltd v The Commonwealth [1954] HCA 20, (1954) 92 CLR 424, High Court (Australia).
It is of such nature that, if permitted, it would defeat the provisions of any law
Consideration may be thought of as the concept of value offered and accepted by people or organisations entering into contracts. Anything of value promised by one party to the other when making a contract can be treated as "consideration": for example, if A contracts to buy a car from B for $5,000, A's consideration is the promise of $5,000, and B's consideration is the promise of the car.
Suppose A is a movie script writer and B runs a movie production company.A says to B, "buy my script." B says "How about this – I will pay you $5,000 so that you do not let anyone else produce your movie until one year from now.If I do produce your movie in that year, then I will give you another $50,000, and no one else can produce it.If I do not produce your movie in that year, then you're free to go."If the two subsequently get into a dispute, the issue of whether a contract exists is answered.B had an option contract—he could decide to produce the script, or not. B's consideration passed was the $5,000 down, and the possibility of $50,000.A's consideration passed was the exclusive rights to the movie script for at least one year.
The doctrine of consideration is expressly rejected by the UNIDROIT Principles of International Commercial Contracts on the grounds that it yields uncertainty and unnecessary litigation, thereby hindering international trade.[40] Similarly, the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods similarly does not require consideration for a contract to be valid, thereby excluding the doctrine with regard to contracts covered by the convention even in common law jurisdictions where it would otherwise apply. Consequently, the continued existence of the doctrine in common law jurisdictions is controversial. Scots lawyer Harvey McGregor's "Contract Code", a Law Commission-sponsored proposal to both unite and codify English and Scots Law, proposed the abolition of consideration.Some commentators have suggested that consideration be replaced by estoppel as a basis for contracts.[41] However, any change to the doctrine of consideration in the jurisdictions in which it exists would need to implemented by legislation[h]
^ Andrew Hennessey v Architectus Group Holdings Pty Ltd [2010] NSWSC 1390, Supreme Court (NSW, Australia)
United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods
Bronaugh R. (1976). Agreement, Mistake, and Objectivity in the Bargain Theory of Conflict. William & Mary Law Review.
Meanwhile, the Indian Contract Act, 1872 which continues in force in Pakistan, Bangladesh, and India (the most populous common law jurisdiction)provides that valid consideration exists “when at the desire of the promisor, the promisee or any other person has done or abstained from doing, or does or abstains from doing, or promises to do or abstain from doing something"[22] or, in other words, when each party receives something in return for entering into a contractual obligation. An agreement must be supported by a lawful consideration on both sides. Under the act, valid consideration must satisfy the following criteria:
Central London Property Trust Ltd. v. High Trees House Ltd. [1947] KB 130
Central London Property Trust Ltd v High Trees House Ltd
Agreements which unduly restrict the personal liberty of parties to it are void as contrary to public policy.
^ Agreements which unduly restrict the personal liberty of parties to it are void as contrary to public policy.
Consideration must be real. Consideration must be real, competent and having some value in the eyes of law. For example, A promises to restore life to B's dead wife, if B pays him Rs.1000/—. A's promise is physically impossible to perform, hence there is no real consideration.
Contracts where a legally valueless term is bundled with a term that does have legal value are still generally enforceable.
^ For a detailed and authoritative account of this process, see A. W. B. Simpson, A History of the Common Law of Contract: The Rise of the Action of Assumpsit, (Oxford University Press: Oxford, 1975).
Consideration must be an act, abstinence or forbearance or a returned promise.
^ For instance, some may assert that agreeing to sell a car for a penny may constitute a binding contract – although there are no cited cases of such trivial compensation being recognised by the court as sufficient.[39]
^ The Atlantic Baron [1979] QB 705 (aka North Ocean Shipping v Hyundai Construction)
Civil law systems take the approach that an exchange of promises, or a concurrence of wills alone, rather than an exchange in valuable rights is the correct basis. So if A promises to give B a book and B accepts the offer without giving anything in return, B would have a legal right to the book and A could not change her mind about giving it to B as a gift. However, in common law systems the concept of culpa in contrahendo, a form of estoppel, is increasingly used to create obligations during pre-contractual negotiations.[29][30] Estoppel is an equitable doctrine that provides for the creation of legal obligations if a party has given another an assurance and the other has relied on the assurance to his detriment.
The primary criticism of the doctrine of consideration is that, in its present form, it is purely a formality that merely serves to complicate commerce and create legal uncertainty by opening up otherwise simple contracts to scrutiny as to whether the consideration purportedly tendered satisfies the requirements of the law. While the purpose of the doctrine was ostensibly to protect parties seeking to void oppressive contracts, this is currently accomplished through the use of a sophisticated variety of defences available to the party seeking to void a contract. In practice, the doctrine of consideration has resulted in a phenomenon similar to that of Ḥiyal in Islamic contracts, whereby parties to a contract use technicalities to satisfy requirements while in actual fact circumventing them in practice. Typically, this is often described in the form of "peppercorn" consideration, i.e. consideration that is trivial but still satisfies the requirements of law, although texts and commentators making such assertions do have a credible basis for doing so.[g]
Chappell & Co Ltd v. Nestle Co Ltd [1959] 2 All ER 701 in which the wrappers from three chocolate bars was held to be part of the consideration for the sale and purchase of a musical recording – although those referencing this case appear to ignore the significance of the three wrappers in relation to Nestle's marketing strategy.
^ e.g. P.S. Atiyah, 'Consideration: A Restatement' in Essays on Contract (1986) p.195, Oxford University Press
^ If the object or the consideration of an agreement is for doing an act forbidden by law, the agreement is void. for example, A promises B to obtain employment in public service and B promises to pay Rs one lakh to A. The agreement is void as procuring a government job through unlawful means is prohibited.
It is fraudulent, or involves or implies injury to the person or property of another
However, some courts in the United States may take issue with nominal consideration, or consideration with virtually no value. Some courts have since thought this was a sham. Since contract disputes are typically resolved in state court, some state courts have found that merely providing $1 to another is not a sufficiently legal duty, and therefore no legal consideration passes in these kinds of deals, and consequently, no contract is formed. However, this is a minority position.[33]
Generally, past consideration is not a valid consideration and has no legal value. Past consideration is consideration that has already flowed from the promisee to the promisor. That is, the promisee's act or forbearance predates the promisor's promise. Past consideration therefore cannot be used as a basis when claiming damages.[38]
6 Specific to Canadian contract law both in Québec and in the country's common law provinces
Pre-existing duties relating to at-will employment depend largely on state law.Generally, at-will employment allows the employer to terminate the employee for good or even no reason (as long as the reason, if any, is not explicitly illegal), and allows the employee to resign for any reason.There are no duties of continued employment in the future.Therefore, when an employee demands a raise, there is no issue with consideration because the employee has no legal duty to continue working.Similarly, when an employer demands a pay-cut, there is also no contractual issue with consideration, because the employer has no legal duty to continue employing the worker.However, certain states require additional consideration other than the prospect of continued employment, to enforce terms demanded later by the employer, in particular, non-competition clauses.
For instance, some may assert that agreeing to sell a car for a penny may constitute a binding contract – although there are no cited cases of such trivial compensation being recognised by the court as sufficient.[39]
Additionally, under the Indian Contract Act 1872, any consideration is invalid if it is:
Consideration must be something which the promisor is not already bound to do. A promise to do something what one is already bound to do, either by law, is not a good consideration, since it adds nothing to the previous existing legal consideration.
Generally, courts do not inquire whether the deal between two parties was monetarily fair—merely that each party passed some legal obligation or duty to the other party.[31][32] The dispositive issue is the presence of consideration, not the adequacy of the consideration. The values between consideration passed by each party to a contract need not be comparable.
Consider the uncle's situation above. If the same uncle had instead told his 13-year-old nephew the following offer: "if you do not smoke cigarettes, do not drink alcohol, swear or play cards for money (gamble) before your 21st birthday, then I will pay you $5,000".On the nephew's 21st birthday, he asks the uncle to pay up, and this time, in the subsequent lawsuit, the nephew may win.[37] Although the promise of not drinking alcohol and gambling while under the age of 21 was not valuable consideration (it was already legally prohibited), most states allow smoking by age 18 and swearing is not illegal at any age.Even though smoking is legally restricted until age 18, it is legal for those above 18, and thus the promise to forbear from it entirely has legal value.However, the uncle would still be relieved from the liability if his nephew drank alcohol, even though that consideration is valueless, because it was paired with something of legal value; therefore, adherence to the entire, collective agreement is necessary.
Consideration must not be past. Past consideration is not good consideration.[12][13][14][15][16][17]
3 Historically restricted in common law jurisdictions but generally accepted elsewhere; availability varies between contemporary common law jurisdictions
Stilk v Myrick [1809] EWHC J58 (KB), (1809) 170 ER 1168.
^ For example, A borrows Rs.100/— from B and executes a bond to work for B without pay for a period of 2 years. In case of default, A owes the principal sum at once and a huge amount of interest. This contract was held void as it involved injury to the person.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Supreme Court of Texas (1464-EIGHT, LTD. & MILLIS MANAGEMENT CORP, v. GAIL ANN JOPPICH See section III)". Archived from the original on 2013-06-16. Retrieved 2012-06-15.
Consideration need not be adequate. Consideration need not necessarily be equal in value to something given. So long as consideration exists, the courts are not concerned as to adequacy, provided it is for some value.
^ This deals with two categories. One is agreements restraining enforcement of rights and the other deals with agreements curtailing the period of limitation.
^ Waltons Stores (Interstate) Ltd v Maher [1988] HCA 7, (1988) 164 CLR 387, High Court (Australia).
However, even if a court decides there is no contract, there might be a possible recovery under the doctrines of quantum meruit (sometimes referred to as a quasi-contract) or promissory estoppel.
see Roscorla v Thomas [1842] EWHC J74, (1842) 114 ER 496.
The parties must have understood the act was to be remunerated either by a payment or the conferment of some other benefit
As Lord Justice Denning famously stated, "The doctrine of consideration is too firmly fixed to be overthrown by a side-wind."[42]
The consideration conveyed by at least one side seeks to restrain legal proceedings[d]
The reason that both exist in common law jurisdictions is thought by leading scholars to be the result of the combining by 19th-century judges of two distinct threads: first the consideration requirement was at the heart of the action of assumpsit, which had grown up in medieval times and remained the normal action for breach of a simple contract in England and Wales until 1884 when the old forms of action were abolished; secondly, the notion of agreement between two or more parties as being the essential legal and moral foundation of contract in all legal systems, was promoted by the 18th-century French writer Pothier in his Traite des Obligations, much read (especially after translation into English in 1805) by English judges and jurists. The latter chimed well with the fashionable will theories of the time, especially John Stuart Mill's influential ideas on free will, and got grafted on to the traditional common law requirement for consideration to ground an action in assumpsit.[28]
Foakes v Beer [1884] UKHL 1, 9 App Cas 605, (1883-84) LR 9 App Cas 605, (1884) 9 App Cas 605 (16 May 1884)
Pao On v Lau Yiu Long [1980] AC 614 (PC)
The same applies if the consideration is a performance for which the parties had previously contracted. For example, A agrees to paint B's house for $500, but halfway through the job A tells B that he will not finish unless B increases the payment to $750. If B agrees, and A then finishes the job, B still only needs to pay A the $500 originally agreed to, because A was already contractually obligated to paint the house for that amount.
^ Agreements for sale or transfer of public offices and title or for procurement of a public recognition like Padma Vibhushan or Padma Shri etc. for monetary consideration is unlawful, being opposed to public policy.
An exception to this rule is where there is a duty owed to a third party. 	An act done before the giving of a promise to make a payment or to confer some other benefit can sometimes be consideration for the promise. For this to hold, three conditions must be satisfied (Pao On v Lau Yiu Long [1980]):
^ As Lord Justice Denning famously stated, "The doctrine of consideration is too firmly fixed to be overthrown by a side-wind."[42]
Duty of honest contractual performance (or doctrine of abuse of rights)6
Re Casey's Patents (aka Stewart v Casey) [1893] 1 Ch 104
Waltons Stores (Interstate) Ltd v Maher [1988] HCA 7, (1988) 164 CLR 387, High Court (Australia).
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Supreme Court of Texas (1464-EIGHT, LTD. & MILLIS MANAGEMENT CORP, v. GAIL ANN JOPPICH See section III)". Archived from the original on 2013-06-16. Retrieved 2012-06-15.
^ Stilk v Myrick [1809] EWHC J58 (KB), (1809) 170 ER 1168.
Avoid appearing to ridicule another editor's comment. Even if you see the comment as ridiculous, they very probably don't, and expressing ridicule is likely only to offend and antagonise, rather than helping.
Incivility – or the appearance of incivility – typically arises from heated content disputes.
Not every single thing Donald Trump does deserves an article
Identifying and using independent sourcesHistory sourcesLaw sourcesPrimary sourcesScience sourcesStyle guidesTertiary sources
A special case is outing, that is, revealing personally identifiable information about another editor that they have not revealed themselves and probably do not want known, such as their name, phone number or address. These should be immediately reverted, then an oversighter should be contacted to remove the information from the edit history, so that it cannot be found by anyone else later. This applies whether or not the information is correct, as to confirm the information is incorrect by treating it any differently gives the outer useful information. Wikipedia:Outing has full information.
(d) belittling a fellow editor, including the use of judgemental edit summaries or talk-page posts (e.g. "that is the stupidest thing I have ever seen", "snipped crap")
You don't have to be mad to work here, but
Think very hard of the possible merits of all other avenues of approach before you take action. Sanctions for civility violations should only happen when nothing else would do. Poorly considered civility blocks have at times worsened disputes and increased disruption. Remember that sanctions may be more applicable under another heading (disruption, personal attack, tendentious editing, or harassment)
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Grayling, A.C. (2001). The Meaning of Things. Weidenfeld & Nicolson. p. 13.
The guideline does not require that editors continue to assume good faith in the presence of obvious evidence of intentional wrongdoing. However, do not assume there is more misconduct than evidence supports. Given equally plausible interpretations of the evidence, choose the most positive one.
In general, be understanding and non-retaliatory in dealing with incivility. If others are uncivil, do not respond the same way. Consider ignoring isolated examples of incivility, and simply moving forward with the content issue. If necessary, point out gently that you think the comment might be considered uncivil and make it clear that you want to move on and focus on the content issue. Bear in mind that the editor may not have thought they were being uncivil; Wikipedia is edited by people from many different backgrounds, and standards vary. Take things to dispute resolution (see below) only if there is an ongoing problem that you cannot resolve.
Administrators' noticeboard/Incidents. The Administrators' noticeboard is intended to report and discuss severe incidents of misconduct that require intervention by administrators and experienced editors.
editors should always treat each other with consideration and respect
(b) personal attacks, including racial, ethnic, sexual, disability-related, gender-related and religious slurs, and derogatory references to groups such as social classes or nationalities
Ask them to strike through an uncivil comment, or re-word it calmly and neutrally.
In a case of ongoing incivility, first decide if anything needs to be done. Confronting someone over a minor incident – particularly if it turns out that you misinterpreted what they meant – may produce more stress and drama than the incident itself. Consider your own behaviour, and, if you find you have been uncivil, apologize to them instead.
Wikipedia is not here to tell the world about your noble cause
Present coherent and concise arguments, and refrain from making personal attacks; encourage others to do the same.
How many Wikipedians does it take to change a lightbulb?
Differences of opinion are inevitable in a collaborative project. When discussing these differences, some editors can seem unnecessarily harsh, while simply trying to be forthright. Other editors may seem oversensitive when their views are challenged. Faceless written words on talk pages and in edit summaries do not fully transmit the nuances of verbal conversation, sometimes leading to misinterpretation of an editor's comments. An uncivil remark can escalate spirited discussion into a personal argument that no longer focuses objectively on the problem at hand. Such exchanges waste our efforts and undermine a positive, productive working environment. Resolve differences of opinion through civil discussion; disagree without being disagreeable. Discussion of other editors should be limited to polite discourse about their actions.
Threats. Threats of violence or suicide should be reported immediately—see WP:EMERGENCY. Hateful speech, legal threats, and other urgent incidents should be reported at the Administrator's Noticeboard Incidents page.
Assume that everyone's assuming good faith, assuming that you are assuming good faith
Be sure to take into account all the relevant history. Avoid snap judgments without acquainting yourself with the background to any situation.
In addition, lack of care when applying other policies can lead to conflict and stress. For instance, referring to a user's good-faith edits as vandalism may lead to them feeling unfairly attacked. Use your best judgement, and be ready to apologize if you turn out to be wrong.
Editors are expected to not personally attack nor harass other Wikipedians. This applies equally to all: it is as unacceptable to attack a user who has a history of foolish or boorish behaviour, or even one who has been subject to disciplinary action by the Arbitration Committee, as it is to attack any other. Wikipedia encourages a positive online community: people make mistakes, but they are encouraged to learn from them and change their ways. Personal attacks and harassment are contrary to this spirit, damaging to the work of building an encyclopedia, and may result in blocks.
"[The] law and its fulfilment, namely punishment, are essentially directed to the future, not to the past. This distinguishes punishment from revenge; for the motives which instigate the latter are solely concerned with what has happened, and thus with the past as such. All requital of wrong by the infliction of pain, without any aim for the future, is revenge, and can have no other end than consolation for the suffering one has borne by the sight of the suffering one has inflicted upon another. This is wickedness and cruelty, and cannot be morally justified." —Arthur Schopenhauer (1883). The World as Will and Representation, Vol. I, § 62.
Immediate blocking is generally reserved for cases of major incivility, where incivility rises to the level of clear disruption, personal attacks, harassment or outing. As with other blocks, civility blocks should be preventive and not punitive.[3]
If an awful lot of people seem to be getting frustrated with you, the problem may be with you
Remember, though, that you cannot demand an apology from anyone else. It will only get their back up and make it either less likely to happen, or to be totally insincere if you do get an apology. Never be too proud to make the first move when it comes to saying sorry. That kind of "pride" is destructive. An apology provides the opportunity for a fresh start, and can clear the air when one person's perceived incivility has offended another.
How to put up a straight pole by pushing it at an angle
The assume good faith guideline states that unless there is strong evidence to the contrary, editors should assume that others are trying to help, not hurt the project.
Simply apologize. This option never hurts, and can be combined well with any of the others. Even if you feel the thrust of your words is true, or that they are misunderstanding what you meant, you can still apologize.
First of all, consider whether you and the other editor may simply have misunderstood each other. Clarify, and ask for clarification.
Review your edit summaries before saving your edits. Remember you cannot go back and change them.
Consider the possibility that something you said or did wrongly provoked a defensive, irritated or fed-up response. Be prepared to apologise for anything which you could/should have done better. (If an awful lot of people seem to be getting frustrated with you, the problem may be with you.)
Be professional. Just because we are online and unpaid does not mean we can behave badly to each other. People working together in a newspaper office are not supposed to get into punch-ups in the newsroom because they disagree about how something is worded or whose turn it is to make the coffee. Nor are volunteers working at the animal rescue centre allowed to start screaming at each other over who left ferrets in the filing cabinet or the corn snake in the cutlery drawer. In fact, there's pretty much nowhere in this world where people working together to do something good are allowed to get into fist-fights, shouting matches, hair-pulling or name-calling; the same principle applies here.
Do not ignore the positions and conclusions of your fellow editors.
The last step—only when other avenues have been tried and failed—is the Arbitration Committee. It is the final binding decision-maker primarily for serious conduct disputes the community has been unable to resolve. It scrutinises all sides involved in the dispute and creates binding resolutions. But it may accept or decline any matter at its sole discretion.
"Characterizing Incivility on Wikipedia" in the mw:Wikimedia Research/Showcase#July 2019 on YouTube
Avoid condescension. No matter how frustrated you are, do not tell people to "grow up" or include any language along the lines of "if this were kindergarten" in your messages.
Blocking for incivility is possible when incivility causes serious disruption. However, the civility policy is not intended to be used as a weapon and blocking should not be the first option in most cases.
Don't overuse shortcuts to policy and guidelines to win your argument
Doctorow, Cory (May 14, 2007). "How to Keep Hostile Jerks from Taking Over Your Online Community". InformationWeek. TechWeb Business Technology Network. Retrieved June 30, 2019.
Explain, clearly but kindly, exactly what you felt was uncivil. Sometimes it helps to let the other editor know how their edit made you feel. Editors are not mind-readers. ("That made me feel..." is much less likely to incite more anger or resentment than "Your post was...")
In the event of rudeness or incivility on the part of another editor, it may be appropriate to discuss the offending words with that editor, and to request that editor to change that specific wording. Some care is necessary, however, so as not to further inflame the situation. It is not normally appropriate to edit or remove another editor's comment. Exceptions include to remove obvious trolling or vandalism, or if the comment is on your own user talk page. Derogatory comments about another contributor may be removed by any editor.
Civility blocks should be for obvious and uncontentious reasons, because an editor has stepped over the line in a manner nearly all editors can see. In cases where you believe that taking admin action against someone who was uncivil might be contentious, it is expected that discussion will be opened on the matter, via WP:ANI, before any admin action is taken. Benefits derived from long or controversial civility blocks should be weighed against the potential for disruption caused by block reviews, and unblock requests.[2]
(b) harassment, including Wikihounding, bullying, personal or legal threats, posting of personal information, repeated email or user space postings
Take a real-life check. Disengage by two steps to assess what you're about to say (or have just said). Asking yourself "How would I feel if someone said that to me?" is often not enough; many people can just brush things off. To get a better perspective, ask yourself: "How would I feel if someone said that to someone I love who cannot just 'brush it off'?" If you would find that unacceptable, then do not say it. And, if you have already said it, strike it and apologise.
^ "[The] law and its fulfilment, namely punishment, are essentially directed to the future, not to the past. This distinguishes punishment from revenge; for the motives which instigate the latter are solely concerned with what has happened, and thus with the past as such. All requital of wrong by the infliction of pain, without any aim for the future, is revenge, and can have no other end than consolation for the suffering one has borne by the sight of the suffering one has inflicted upon another. This is wickedness and cruelty, and cannot be morally justified." —Arthur Schopenhauer (1883). The World as Will and Representation, Vol. I, § 62.
Avoid name-calling. Someone may very well be an idiot, but telling them so is neither going to increase their intelligence nor improve your ability to communicate with them.
1Cooperation and civility											Toggle Cooperation and civility subsection																					1.1Avoiding incivility																											1.2Edit summary dos and don'ts
Users should be clearly warned, in most circumstances, before being blocked for incivility, and should be allowed sufficient time to retract, reword or explain uncivil comments. Even experienced contributors should not be blocked without warning. Exceptions to this may include users who make egregious violations or threats, or who have received multiple warnings or blocks.
Request for comment. RfC is a process to request community-wide input on article content. RfCs can be used when there is a content-related dispute, or simply to get input from other editors before making a change.
Editors are expected to be reasonably cooperative, to refrain from making personal attacks, to work within the scope of policies, and to be responsive to good-faith questions. Try to treat your fellow editors as respected colleagues with whom you are working on an important project. Be especially welcoming and patient towards new users who contribute constructively, but politely discourage non-constructive newcomers.
It is sometimes difficult to make a hard-and-fast judgement of what is uncivil and what is not. Editors should take into account factors such as (.mw-parser-output .roman-numeral{font-family:"Nimbus Roman No9 L","Times New Roman",Times,serif;font-size:118%;line-height:1}.mw-parser-output .roman-numeral-a{border:1px solid}.mw-parser-output .roman-numeral-t{border-top:1px solid}.mw-parser-output .roman-numeral-v{border:solid;border-width:0 1px;padding:0 2px}.mw-parser-output .roman-numeral-h{border:solid;border-width:1px 0}.mw-parser-output .roman-numeral-tv{border:1px solid;border-bottom:none;padding:0 2px}i) the intensity and context of the language/behaviour; (ii) whether the behaviour has occurred on a single occasion, or is occasional or regular; (iii) whether a request has already been made to stop the behaviour, and whether that request is recent; (iv) whether the behaviour has been provoked; and (v) the extent to which the behaviour of others need to be treated at the same time.
The No Asshole Rule: Building a Civilized Workplace and Surviving One That Isn't
If none of this is working, and the other person is not damaging the project or being uncivil or unkind to other editors, either walk away or request dispute resolution from uninvolved editors.
Try not to get too intense. Passion can be misread as aggression, so take great care to avoid the appearance of being heavy-handed or bossy. Nobody likes to be bossed about by an editor who appears to believe that they are "superior"; nobody likes a bully.
Please be a giant dick, so we can ban you
Drop the stick and back slowly away from the horse carcass
Criticisms of society may be consistent with NPOV and reliability
Even if you're offended, be as calm and reasonable as possible in your response. Until there is clear evidence to the contrary, assume that the offense was unintended.
(e) quoting another editor out of context to give the impression they said something they didn't say
Civility is to human nature what warmth is to wax.
Be careful with edit summaries. They are relatively short comments and thus potentially subject to misinterpretation or oversimplification. They cannot be changed after pressing "Save", and are often written in haste, particularly in stressful situations. Remember to explain your edit, especially when things are getting heated; to avoid personal comments about any editors you have disputes with; and to use the talk page to further explain your view of the situation.
Dispute resolution noticeboard (DRN). It is the place where editors involved in a content dispute can have a discussion facilitated by uninvolved volunteers, in an attempt to find compromise and resolution to disputes.
Disputes, and even misunderstandings, can lead to situations in which one party feels injured by the other. There's no loss of face in apologising. We all make mistakes, we all say the odd hurtful thing, we all have bad days and bad moments. If you have a sneaky feeling you owe someone an apology, offer the apology. Apologising does not hurt you.
List of all policies and guidelinesP: List of policiesG: List of guidelines
Civility is part of Wikipedia's code of conduct and one of its five pillars. The civility policy describes the standards expected of users and provides appropriate ways of dealing with problems when they arise. Stated simply, editors should always treat each other with consideration and respect. They should focus on improving the encyclopedia while maintaining a pleasant editing environment by behaving politely, calmly and reasonably, even during heated debates.
Third opinion. This forum can be used to request outside input from an uninvolved user regarding the problem. Like many dispute resolution processes, it is limited to encyclopedia content disputes.
^ Administrators should try to follow The Principle of Least Drama: when given a choice between several ways of dealing with a problem, pick the one that generates the least drama.
Most people who disagree with you on content are not vandals
In escalating order of seriousness, here are the venues you may use for dispute resolution if the relevant page's talk page is insufficient:
Don't accuse someone of a personal attack for accusing of a personal attack
Avoid editing while you're in a bad mood. It does spill over. (See Editing under the influence and No angry mastodons)
Be clear about what you did, so that other editors can assess your changes accurately.
Strike it out (using HTML strikeout tags), to show, publicly, that you withdraw the comment.
Explain yourself. Insufficient explanations for edits can be perceived as uncivil. Use good edit summaries, and use the talk page if the edit summary does not provide enough space or if a more substantive debate is likely to be needed.
Carnegie, Dale (1936). How to Win Friends and Influence People. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 1-4391-6734-6.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Grayling, A.C. (2001). The Meaning of Things. Weidenfeld & Nicolson. p. 13.
Article talk pages should be, on the whole, considered to be professional workspaces. They're places to talk about how to improve the article, and to discuss the article (though it's OK for conversations to wander into related areas, or go more into depth than the article does, as that helps with research and gives ideas on improvement). But an editor's talk page is more like their kitchen; it's more informal, and (within reason) it's up to them what happens in there. Clearly, just like in a real kitchen, it's no more acceptable to stick a knife in someone than it is in the office. Personal attacks are not acceptable anywhere, but expect users' own talk pages to have a much more informal atmosphere than article talk pages.
Incivility consists of personal attacks, rudeness and disrespectful comments. Especially when done in an aggressive manner, these often alienate editors and disrupt the project through unproductive stressors and conflict. While a few minor incidents of incivility that no one complains about are not necessarily a concern, a continuing pattern of incivility is unacceptable. In cases of repeated harassment or egregious personal attacks, then the offender may be blocked. Even a single act of severe incivility could result in a block, such as a single episode of extreme verbal abuse or profanity directed at another contributor, or a threat against another person.
No matter how much you're being provoked, resist the temptation to snap back. It never works; it just makes things worse. Strive to become the editor who can't be baited.
Quietly remove it, or rewrite the comment to be more civil – Usually only a good idea if you think better of it before anyone objected to it. If someone has already reacted, you should acknowledge the change in a quick comment after the changed text, for instance, Comment removed by author.
Where the uncivil comment is yours, any of these options will help reduce the impact:
Be careful with user warning templates. Be careful about issuing templated messages to editors you're currently involved in a dispute with, and exercise caution when using templated messages for newcomers (see Wikipedia:Please do not bite the newcomers). Consider using a personal message instead of, or in addition to, the templated message.
This policy is not a weapon to use against other contributors. To insist that an editor be sanctioned for an isolated, minor incident, to repeatedly bring up past incivility after an individual has changed their approach, or to treat constructive criticism as an attack, is in itself potentially disruptive, and may result in warnings or even blocks if repeated.
4Dealing with incivility											Toggle Dealing with incivility subsection																					4.1Dispute resolution																											4.2Removing uncivil comments																								4.2.1Different places, different atmospheres																														4.3Apologising: It's OK to say sorry																											4.4Blocking for incivility
Where someone is unintentionally offended at your comment, calmly explain what you meant.
No amount of editing can overcome a lack of notability
(a) taunting or baiting: deliberately pushing others to the point of breaching civility even if not seeming to commit such a breach themselves. All editors are responsible for their own actions in cases of baiting; a user who is baited is not excused by that if they attack in response, and a user who baits is not excused from their actions by the fact that the bait may be taken.
Administrators should try to follow The Principle of Least Drama: when given a choice between several ways of dealing with a problem, pick the one that generates the least drama.
Reagle, Joseph (2010). Good Faith Collaboration: The Culture of Wikipedia. MIT Press. ISBN 978-0-262014-47-2.
Sutton, Robert (February 2007). The No Asshole Rule: Building a Civilized Workplace and Surviving One That Isn't. Business Plus. ISBN 978-0-446-52656-2.
Wikipedia's civility expectations apply to all editors during all interactions on Wikipedia, including discussions at user and article talk pages, in edit summaries and in any other discussion with or about fellow Wikipedians.
"How to Keep Hostile Jerks from Taking Over Your Online Community"
User talk page. If some action is necessary, first consider discussing it on that user's talk page. Be careful not to escalate the situation, and politely explain your objection. You may also wish to include a diff of the specific uncivil statement. If you are in active dispute with the user, consider offering an olive branch to them instead.
In "emergency" situations, where the other editor needs to be stopped in their tracks to avoid causing serious disruption or needs a fast and strong wake-up call, file a report at the administrators' "Incidents" noticeboard. Bear in mind the risk of being hoist by your own petard if you yourself are guilty of policy violations. Please also read the ANI advice first.
This page was last edited on 3 March 2023, at 06:23 (UTC).
What to do if your article gets tagged for speedy deletion
Toward the end of his career, he turned his attention toward the history of human rights in the twentieth century, though he had no special training in international law. He wrote In the Highest Degree Odious: Detention without Trial in Wartime Britain (1992) and Human Rights and the End of Empire: Britain and the Genesis of the European Convention (2001).[7]
Born in Kendal, Cumbria, Simpson was the son of the Rev Canon Bernard W. Simpson and Mary Simpson.[4] His interest in law began when he was young, as he describes attending a murder trial in Leeds when he was a boy.[6] Simpson was educated at Lancing House in Lowestoft, Oakham School and The Queen's College, Oxford on a closed scholarship, where he took a First in Law, the best first of his year. He registered for a doctorate in 1954, but never completed it.
^ McCrudden, Christopher (2012). "Alfred William Brian Simpson 1931–2011" (PDF). Biographical Memoirs of Fellows of the British Academy. XI: 547–581.
Works by or about A. W. B. Simpson at Internet Archive
^ a b "Search Results | WHO'S WHO & WHO WAS WHO". www.ukwhoswho.com. Retrieved 27 September 2019.
His work as a legal historian also led him into the debate concerning law and economics, an approach he first encouraged at Chicago and Michigan and toward which he was sceptical. In 1996, he became involved in a debate with Ronald Coase over the latter's handling of Victorian case law, particularly Sturges v Bridgman, in his seminal article "The Problem of Social Cost". Coase was dismissive of Simpson's criticism, which was followed by a riposte by Simpson.
In the Highest Degree Odious: Detention Without Trial in Wartime Britain, 1992
In 1976 Simpson was awarded a DCL by Oxford; he received honorary degrees from the University of Ghana (Hon. DLitt, 1993), Dalhousie University (Hon. LLD, 2003) and the University of Kent (Hon LLD, 2003). He was elected Fellow of the British Academy in 1983 and of the American Academy of Arts and Science in 1993. In 1995 he was elected an honorary fellow of Lincoln College, Oxford, and he was appointed an honorary Queen's Counsel in 2001.
McCrudden, Christopher (2012). "Alfred William Brian Simpson (1931-2011)" (PDF). Biographical Memoirs of Fellows of the British Academy. XI: 547–581. Retrieved 2 November 2021.
This page was last edited on 6 March 2023, at 00:30 (UTC).
After a year as a junior research fellow at St Edmund Hall, Oxford, he became a fellow and tutor in Law at Lincoln College, Oxford, from 1955 to 1973. He was a member of H. L. A. Hart's informal discussion group on jurisprudence, a subject he became associated with as a result. However, diffidence precluded him publishing on the subject until the end of his life.
Introduction to the History of the Land Law, 1961, new edn as A History of the Land Law, 1986
^ a b "University of Michigan Law School Faculty & Staff". cgi2.www.law.umich.edu. Archived from the original on 23 September 2005. Retrieved 6 January 2010.
Human Rights and the End of Empire: Britain and the Genesis of the European Convention. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press. 2001. ISBN 978-0-19-826289-3.
He also held visiting professorships at Dalhousie University (1964), the University of Chicago (1979, 1980, 1982, 1984), the University of Michigan (1985), the University of Cambridge (Arthur Goodhart Visiting Professor in Legal Science, 1993–94) and the University of Toronto (2009). In the 1970s, Simpson was a member of the Heilbron Committee on the law of rape and the Williams Committee on Obscenity and Film Censorship.
"Professor A.W. Brian Simpson : 17th August 1931- 10th January… · News · The AIRE Centre". airecentre.org. Archived from the original on 28 January 2011. Retrieved 17 January 2011.
^ date & year of birth, full name according to LCNAF CIP data
"University of Michigan Law School Faculty & Staff". cgi2.www.law.umich.edu. Archived from the original on 23 September 2005. Retrieved 6 January 2010.
Cannibalism and the Common Law: The Story of the Tragic Last Voyage of the Mignonette and the Strange Legal Proceedings to Which It Gave Rise
"Search Results | WHO'S WHO & WHO WAS WHO". www.ukwhoswho.com. Retrieved 27 September 2019.
A. W. Brian Simpson, Human Rights and the End of Empire: Britain and the Genesis of the European Convention (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2001), p. 954.
Human Rights and the End of Empire: Britain and the Genesis of the European Convention
Simpson returned to an aspect of his own legal education at Oxford in a book published posthumously in September, 2011, Reflections on `The Concept of Law,' delineating the environment in which H. L. A. Hart had produced the classic of jurisprudence in the setting of Oxford linguistic philosophy.
^ "Professor A.W. Brian Simpson : 17th August 1931- 10th January… · News · The AIRE Centre". airecentre.org. Archived from the original on 28 January 2011. Retrieved 17 January 2011.
date & year of birth, full name according to LCNAF CIP data
"Professor A.W. Brian Simpson : 17th August 1931- 10th January… · News · The AIRE Centre"
"Obituary: Brian Simpson; Leading academic lawyer in the field of legal history, legal philosophy and human rights"
^ a b "SIMPSON, (Alfred William) Brian". The International Who's Who (70th ed.). London & New York: Routledge. 2006. p. 1936. ISBN 1-85743-366-1.
Alfred William Brian Simpson, QC (Hon.), JP, FBA (17 August 1931[1][2] – 10 January 2011)[3] usually referred to as Brian Simpson and publishing as A. W. Brian Simpson, was a British legal historian and legal philosopher.[4][5] At the time of his retirement, he was Charles F. and Edith J. Clyne Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School.[3]
Legal Theory and Legal History: Essays on the Common Law, 1987
Increasingly unhappy in Oxford, Simpson began to look further afield. As a result of National Service with the Nigeria Regiment, he retained an interest in Africa, and was Dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Ghana in 1968–69.[7] In 1975, he left Oxford to join the University of Kent as Professor of Law, where he remained until 1983. He joined the University of Chicago Law School as Professor of Law in 1984, and the University of Michigan Law School in 1986, where he remained until retirement.
^ McCrudden, Christopher (1 February 2011). "Obituary: Brian Simpson; Leading academic lawyer in the field of legal history, legal philosophy and human rights". The Guardian. Retrieved 2 November 2021.
"SIMPSON, (Alfred William) Brian". The International Who's Who (70th ed.). London & New York: Routledge. 2006. p. 1936. ISBN 1-85743-366-1.
McCrudden, Christopher (1 February 2011). "Obituary: Brian Simpson; Leading academic lawyer in the field of legal history, legal philosophy and human rights". The Guardian. Retrieved 2 November 2021.
A leading historian of the common law, Simpson pioneered the study of 'leading cases' which he thought "deserved the fullest possible study in their historical context". He became so identified with this approach that this type of scholarship became known as 'doing a Simpson' in some circles.[8] According to Simpson, the idea for this approach came to him in 1979 when he was lying in a bath and realized that Rylands v Fletcher, the case which developed strict liability, was the result of a serious reservoir failure. His famous book, Cannibalism and the Common Law (1984), adopts this approach to study the Victorian cause célèbre R v Dudley and Stephens (1884). The book sold well and was reprinted by Penguin, though its impact on academic law was limited because he did not explicitly articulate a theory linked to the narrative. Many of his articles on 'leading cases' were collected in Leading Cases in Common Law (1995).
^ A. W. Brian Simpson, Human Rights and the End of Empire: Britain and the Genesis of the European Convention (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2001), p. 954.
McCrudden, Christopher (2012). "Alfred William Brian Simpson 1931–2011" (PDF). Biographical Memoirs of Fellows of the British Academy. XI: 547–581.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Cannibalism and the Common Law: The Story of the Tragic Last Voyage of the Mignonette and the Strange Legal Proceedings to Which It Gave Rise. Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press. 1984. ISBN 9780226759425.
Tercon Contractors Ltd. v. Her Majesty The Queen in Right of the Province of British Columbia, by her Ministry of Transportation and Highways
In Leduc v Ward, a vessel bound from Fiume (modern day Rijeka) to Dunkirk headed instead towards Glasgow, sinking in a storm in the Clyde estuary. The court held that even though the shipper may have known of the planned deviation, the parol evidence rule meant that the route described in the bill of lading was conclusive, and that the deviation was actionable, preventing the carrier from invoking the protection of the "perils of the sea" exemption.[citation needed]
3 Historically restricted in common law jurisdictions but generally accepted elsewhere; availability varies between contemporary common law jurisdictions
Harbutt's "Plasticine" Ltd v Wayne Tank and Pump Co Ltd
Duty of good faith (also implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing or duty to negotiate in good faith)7Contract A and Contract B6
The House of Lords boldly held that Karsales Ltd v Wallis had overstated the law, and that whether or not a fundamental breach extinguishes any protection that the defendant might rely on was a "question of construction" and not a "question of law".[a] Although the demurrage clause was so absurdly low that it amounted to an exemption clause, nevertheless its existence plainly showed that the parties had contemplated the possibility of delay, so delays would not amount to fundamental breach.
^ In other words, fundamental breach was not some kind of "super breach of condition".
^ Supreme Court of Canada, Tercon Contractors Ltd. v. Her Majesty The Queen in Right of the Province of British Columbia, by her Ministry of Transportation and Highways, 2010 SCC 4, para. 81, published 12 February 2010, accessed 26 April 2021
Although the 19th century cases were maritime cases, the idea of the "main purpose" caught on in the general law of contract after Lord Greene MR, in Alderslade v. Hendon Laundry Ltd.(1945),[12] labelled the fundamental term as ‘the hard core of the contract'.
The doctrine of fundamental breach has been “laid to rest” by the Supreme Court of Canada in Tercon Contractors Ltd. v. British Columbia (Transportation and Highways) in 2010.[22] In its place, the court has created a three-step test to evaluate the application of exclusion clauses. The first step is to evaluate the exclusion clause in the factual context of each case to determine if it applies to the material circumstances. The second step is to evaluate if the exclusion clause was unconscionable at the time of incorporation. The final step is to evaluate whether the exclusion clause should not be enforced on public policy grounds.
^ Hong Kong Fir Shipping v Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha, 1961
These two cases (the Suisse Atlantique and Photo Productions) thus form the definitive statement of the law up to the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977.[b]
^ Also, The Kapitan Petko Voivoda [2003] 2 Lloyd's Rep. 1
Maxine Footwear Company Ltd. v. Canadian Government Merchant Marine Ltd (1957)[23][24]
^ Glynn v Margetson [1893] AC 351 [1907] 1 KB 660
^ iLaw, Tate & Lyle v Hain Steamship Company, 1936) 55 Ll.L.Rep. 159], Lloyds Law Reports, accessed 26 April 2021
Although the clause was clear and well drafted, the Court of Appeal declared that a "car" was a "vehicle capable of self-propulsion", and accordingly this Buick was not a proper car. Following Glynn v Margetson and using its "main purpose" concept, the court held that the dealer was "in breach of a fundamental obligation" and so could not rely on any exclusion clause.
The origins of the idea of fundamental breachmay be traced to early cases on thedoctrine of deviation. In Davis v. Garrett [6] Tindal C.J. stated that a carrier's deviation from the agreed voyage route amounted also to a deviation from the terms of the contract, including its exceptions or limitation clauses provided by such a contract. This view was adopted in the leading cases of Leduc v Ward (1888) [7][8] and Glynn v Margetson (1893).[9][10]
Although the concept caused some excitement in the 1950s and 1960s, the concept was regarded as flawed by the Law Lords, whose decision in the Suisse Atlantique[4] substantially curtailed the doctrine, which has now been effectively "laid to rest" in England and Canada.[5] The relevant concept in English Law is repudiatory breach of contract.
Similarly, in Glynn v Margetson, a vessel carrying Seville oranges from Malaga to Liverpool deviated from the agreed route, by heading first to Burriana (near Valencia). This deviation caused delay and deterioration of the perishable cargo. The carrier relied on a 'liberty clause' in the bill of lading which purported to allow the vessel 'liberty to visit any port in any order'. In the House of Lords, Lord Herschell LC declared the liberty clause to be an exemption clause in disguise, adding "the main object of this bill of lading is the carriage of oranges from Malaga to Liverpool". He thus established the "main purpose rule", holding that no exclusion clause would be allowed to cut into the main purpose of any contract.[citation needed]
iLaw, Tate & Lyle v Hain Steamship Company, 1936) 55 Ll.L.Rep. 159], Lloyds Law Reports, accessed 26 April 2021
^ Harbutt's "Plasticine" Ltd v Wayne Tank and Pump Co Ltd
Glynn v Margetson [1893] AC 351 [1907] 1 KB 660
In Karsalesv Wallis [1956] EWCA Civ 4 a buyer inspected a car dealer's used Buick car and agreed to buy it. The car was later delivered at night, and had been towed. When the buyer inspected the car in the morning, it would not work and it was clear it had been involved in an accident, and there were other changes: its tyres had been replaced by old ones, body parts were missing, and the engine's cylinder head was detached, revealing burnt valves. This was a serious breach, but the dealer sought to rely on a clause in the contract which read "No condition or warranty that the vehicle is roadworthy or as to its age, condition or fitness for any purpose is given by the owner or implied herein."
Although the Suisse Atlantique case has taken the sting out of the fundamental breach idea, in deviation itself little has changed. Glynn v Margetson still holds, so that not only may deviating carriers be denied the protection of exemption clauses expressly in the contract, they will also be denied the protection of implicit exemptions such as Article IV of the Hague-Visby Rules. However, given the general move in the common law away from strict liability to a standard of "reasonable care" (or "due diligence"),[20][21] this may change in due course.
7 Specific to civil law jurisdictions, the American Uniform Commercial Code, and Canadian jurisprudence in both Québec and the common law provinces pertaining to contractual and pre-contractual negotiation
^ viz The Glenfruin (1885) 10 PD 103 & McFadden v Blue Star Line [1905] 1 KB 697
Whereas breach of condition is a serious breach that "denies the plaintiff the main benefit of the contract",[2] fundamental breach was supposed to be even worse, with the result that any exclusion clause limiting the defendant's liability would automatically become void and ineffective. Also, whereas breach of condition gives the plaintiff the option to repudiate, fundamental breach automatically discharges the entire contract.[3]
Also, The Kapitan Petko Voivoda [2003] 2 Lloyd's Rep. 1
viz The Glenfruin (1885) 10 PD 103 & McFadden v Blue Star Line [1905] 1 KB 697
The matter came to a head in 1966 in the House of Lords decision Suisse Atlantique.[16] The case involved a two-year time charter to export coal, the shipowners to be paid freight dependent on tonnage of cargo carried. If laytime (the allowable period for the charterer to arrange loading and unloading) were exceeded, the charterers were to pay demurrage of $1,000 per day. The charterers caused huge delays and few round trips were made. Demurrage totalled only $150,000, so the owners claimed damages for their full losses, saying they should not be limited to the demurrage terms because the charterer's gross delays amounted to fundamental breach.
Duty of honest contractual performance (or doctrine of abuse of rights)6
5 Explicitly rejected by the UNIDROIT Principles of International Commercial Contracts
Tate & Lyle v Hain Steamship Company was a further deviation case following this approach.[11]
More recently, this law was successfully applied in two cases related to carriage of goods by sea and application of limitation clauses under the Hague-Visby Rules: Daewoo Heavy Industries Ltd. v. Klipriver Shipping Ltd.[18] and The Happy Ranger.[19]
In other words, fundamental breach was not some kind of "super breach of condition".
This decision was clearly fair to the buyer, and Karsales v Wallis soon became the leading case on "fundamental breach". As a matter of law, under the doctrine of fundamental breach of contract, exclusion clauses were deemed not to be available to a party in fundamental breach of the contract. However, all was not well, as business people felt alarmed that an agreed contract term could be set aside by a court; there seemed to be no "certainty".[citation needed]
After the Suisse Atlantique decision, there was a series of cases where the Court of Appeal patently ignored the House of Lords' findings. One such case was Harbutt's "Plasticine" Ltd v Wayne Tank and Pump Co Ltd.[17] The House of Lords was less than amused, and in the 1980 Photo Productions case they emphatically reaffirmed their decision in the Suisse Atlantique. Lord Wilberforce effectively overturned the "rule of law" doctrine of Karsales Ltd v Wallis and instead maintained a strict "rule of construction" approach whereby a fundamental breach is determined by examining the full circumstances, such as the parties' intentions at the time of the contract.
6 Specific to Canadian contract law both in Québec and in the country's common law provinces
4 Specific to the German Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch and other civil codes based on the pandectist tradition
Pacta sunt servanda, a brocard or basic principle of law
Fundamental breach of contract,[1] is a controversial concept within the common law of contract. The doctrine was, in particular, nurtured by Lord Denning, Master of the Rolls from 1962 to 1982, but it did not find favour with the House of Lords.
Also, there arose some confusion as to what "fundamental breach" actually was. Some alleged it was a breach that went to "the root of the contract", a breach so fundamental it would permit the distressed party to repudiate the contract and claim damages. However, since both common law[13] and statute[14] already recognised that while that breach of warranty entitled a claimant only to damages, any breach of condition would entitle a claimant to both repudiation and damages, it seemed that fundamental breach offered nothing new.[15]
This page was last edited on 12 September 2022, at 04:56 (UTC).
Supreme Court of Canada, Tercon Contractors Ltd. v. Her Majesty The Queen in Right of the Province of British Columbia, by her Ministry of Transportation and Highways, 2010 SCC 4, para. 81, published 12 February 2010, accessed 26 April 2021
In 1871, most of the various German states were united into the German Empire. In the beginning, civil law legislative power was held by the individual states, not the Empire (Reich) that was composed of those states. An amendment to the constitution passed in 1873 (named Lex Miquel-Lasker in reference to the amendment's sponsors, representatives Johannes von Miquel and Eduard Lasker) transferred this legislative authority to the Reich. Various committees were then formed to draft a bill that was to become a civil law codification for the entire country, replacing the civil law systems of the states.
The BGB follows a modified pandectist structure, derived from Roman law: like other Roman-influenced codes, it regulates the law of persons, property, family and inheritance, but unlike e.g. the French Code civil or the Austrian Civil Code, a chapter containing generally applicable regulations is placed first. Consequently, the BGB contains five main parts (or "books"):
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.1German Empire																											1.2Nazi Germany																											1.3Germany from 1945
inheritance law (Erbrecht), Sections 1922 through 2385, which regulates what happens to a deceased's estate, as well as the law of wills and contracts concerning succession (pacta successoria).
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 05:17 (UTC).
The separation doctrine states that obligationary agreements for alienation and conveyances that effect that alienation must be treated separately and follow their own rules. Also, under the abstract system, alienation does not depend on the validity of the underlying causa of the obligationary contract; in other words, a conveyance is sine causa (without legal consideration). From this differentiation it follows that a mere obligationary agreement, such as for the sale of property, does not transfer ownership if and until a separate legal instrument, the conveyance, has been drawn up and goes into effect; conversely, the alienation of property based on an invalid obligationary agreement may give rise to a restitutionary obligation for the transferee to restore the property (e.g. unjust enrichment), but until the property is re-conveyed, again by way of a conveyance, the transferred property is not affected.
In day-to-day business, this differentiation is not needed, because both types of contract would be formed simultaneously by exchanging the property for payment of money. Although the abstract system can be seen as overly technical and contradicting the usual common-sense interpretation of commercial transactions, it is undisputed among the German legal community. The main advantage of the abstract system is its ability to provide a secure legal construction to nearly any financial transaction, however complicated this transaction may be.
family law (Familienrecht), Sections 1297 through 1921, describing marriage, marital property schemes, legal guardianship, and other legal relationships among family members
A good example is retention of title. If someone buys something and pays the purchase price in installments, there are two conflicting interests at play: the buyer wants to have the purchased property immediately, whereas the seller wants to secure full payment of the purchase price. Under the abstract system, the BGB has a simple answer: the sales contract obligates the buyer to pay the full price and requires the seller to transfer property upon receipt of the last installment. As the sale obligations and the actual conveyance of ownership are embodied in two separate agreements, it is quite simple to secure both parties' interests. The seller maintains ownership of the property until the last payment, while the buyer merely possesses the property. If the buyer defaults, the seller may repossess the property just like any other owner.
Although several other laws are meant to deal with specific legal questions deemed to be outside the scope of a general civil code, the highly specialised Bienenrecht (law of bees) is found within the property law chapter of the BGB (sections 961–964). This results from the fact that, in legal terms, bees become wild animals as soon as they leave their hive. As wild animals can't be owned by anyone, the said sections provide for the former owner to keep his claim over that swarm. But sections 961–964 are usually described as the least cited regulations in German law, with not a single decision of any higher court pertaining thereto since the BGB entered into force.
German BGB (in German) by the German Ministry of Justice, Books 1, 2, & 3 (in English)
The BGB continues to be the centerpiece of the German legal system. Other legislation builds on principles defined in the BGB. The German Commercial Code, for example, contains only those rules relevant to merchant partnerships and limited partnerships, as the general rules for partnerships in the BGB also apply.
Civil law overview by the German Ministry of Justice[dead link]
property law (Sachenrecht), Sections 854 through 1296, describing possession, ownership, other property rights (e.g. servitudes, security interests, rentcharge, land charge), and how those rights can be transferred
The introduction in France of the Napoleonic code in 1804 created in Germany a similar desire to draft a civil code (despite the opposition of Friedrich Carl von Savigny’s Historical School of Law) which would systematize and unify the various heterogeneous laws that were in effect in the country. However, such an undertaking during the German Confederation would have been difficult because the appropriate legislative body did not exist.
A first draft code, in 1888, did not meet with favour. A second committee of 22 members, comprising not only jurists but also representatives of financial interests and of the various ideological currents of the time, compiled a second draft. After significant revisions, the BGB was passed by the Reichstag in 1896. It was put into effect on 1 January 1900, and has been the central codification of Germany's civil law ever since.
The BGB is typical of 19th century legislation and has been criticized from its very beginnings for its lack of social responsibility. Lawmakers and legal practice have improved the system over the years to adapt the BGB in this respect with more or less success. Recently, the influence of EU legislation has been quite strong and the BGB has seen many changes as a result.
No other German law has a larger number of sections
Under the BGB, a sales contract alone, for example, would not lead to the buyer acquiring ownership, but merely impose an obligation on the seller to transfer ownership of the sold property. The seller is then contractually obligated to form another, and separate, agreement to transfer the property. Only once this second agreement is formed, the buyer acquires ownership of the purchased property. Consequently, these two procedures are regulated differently: the contracting parties' obligations are regulated by art. 433, whereas real contracts alienating movable property are provided for under art. 929. The payment of the purchase price (or valuable consideration) is treated likewise.
In 1896 and 1898, the Japanese government enacted a civil code (民法, Minpō) based on the first draft of the Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch; with post–World War II modifications, the code remains in effect.[1]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Kanamori, Shigenari (1 January 1999). "German influences on Japanese Pre-War Constitution and Civil Code". European Journal of Law and Economics. 7 (1): 93–95. doi:10.1023/A:1008688209052. S2CID 85450010.
The BGB served as a template in several other civil law jurisdictions, including Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Brazil, Greece, Estonia, Latvia and Ukraine. It also had a major influence on the 1907 Swiss Civil Code, the 1942 Italian Civil Code, the 1966 Portuguese Civil Code, and the 1992 reformed Dutch Civil Code.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Kanamori, Shigenari (1 January 1999). "German influences on Japanese Pre-War Constitution and Civil Code". European Journal of Law and Economics. 7 (1): 93–95. doi:10.1023/A:1008688209052. S2CID 85450010.
In Nazi Germany, there were plans to replace the BGB with a new codification that was planned to be entitled "Volksgesetzbuch" ("people's code"), which was meant to reflect Nazi ideology better than the BGB, but these plans did not become reality. However, some general principles of the BGB such as the doctrine of good faith (§ 242 BGB, Grundsatz von Treu und Glauben) were used to interpret the BGB in a Nazi-friendly way. Therefore, the political need to draft a completely new code to match the Nazis' expectations subsided, and instead the many flexible doctrines and principles of the BGB were re-interpreted to meet the (legal) spirit of that time. Especially through the good faith doctrine in § 242 BGB (see above) or the contra bonos mores doctrine in § 138 BGB (sittenwidriges Rechtsgeschäft), voiding transactions perceived as being contra bonos mores, i.e. against public policy or morals, the Nazis and their willing judges and lawyers were able to direct the law in a way to serve their nationalist ideology.[citation needed]
No other German law has a larger number of sections[citation needed]: the BGB ends with sec. 2385.
Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations.
law of obligations (Schuldrecht), Sections 241 through 853, describing contractual obligations and other civil obligations, including torts and unjust enrichment
the general part (allgemeiner Teil), Sections 1 through 240, comprising regulations that have effect on all the other four parts, such as personhood and civil status, emancipation, legal capacity, declarations of will, rescission, formation of contracts, limitation periods, and agency
In 1923, the Government of Siam (Thailand) passed the Act establishing the Civil Code of B.E. 2466 (1923) which put into force the first two books of the Civil Code of Thailand. The enactment of the Civil Code (Thai: ประมวลกฎหมายแพ่ง, Pramuan kodmai phaeng) was a major event in Thai legal history. As one of the few independent Asian countries during the second half of the nineteenth century, the Thai government had desired to adopt the western legal system as a part of the country's modernization efforts. The project started in the late nineteenth century and, initially, the Thai Civil Code was based on the French Civil Code. But the advancement of legal science in Germany in the late nineteenth century - which culminated in the enactment of the Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch - convinced the government that the German code should be the model for Thailand's civil-law codification.
The Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch (German: [ˈbʏʁɡɐlɪçəs ɡəˈzɛtsbuːx], lit. 'Civil Law Book'), abbreviated BGB, is the civil code of Germany. In development since 1881, it became effective on 1 January 1900, and was considered a massive and groundbreaking project.
When Germany was divided into a democratic capitalist state in the West and a socialist state in the East after World War II, the BGB continued to regulate the civil law in both parts of Germany. Over time the BGB regulations were replaced in East Germany by new laws, beginning with a family code in 1966 and ending with a new civil code (Zivilgesetzbuch) in 1976 and a contract act in 1982. Since Germany's reunification in 1990, the BGB has again been the codification encompassing the civil law of Germany.
In West and reunited Germany, the BGB has been amended many times. The most significant changes were made in 2002, when the Law of Obligations, one of the BGB's five main parts, was extensively reformed. Despite its status as a civil code, legal precedent does play a limited role; the way the courts construe and interpret the regulations of the code has changed in many ways, and continues to evolve and develop, due particularly to the high degree of abstraction throughout. In recent years lawmakers have tried to bring some outside legislation "back into the BGB". For example, aspects of tenancy legislation, which had been transferred to separate laws such as the Miethöhengesetz ("Rental Rate Act") are once again covered by the BGB.
Another advantage is that should the sales contract be found defective due to some vitiating factor (e.g. fraud, mistake, or undue influence), this would not affect the seller's ownership, thereby making it unnecessary to resell the property for the sake of transferring ownership back to the original seller. Instead, under the rules of unjust enrichment, the buyer is obligated to transfer the property back if possible or otherwise pay compensation.
In the years 1927-1934 Oxford University Press, Inc., New York was reorganised by Geoffrey Cumberlege to bring it back to profitability after the Depression years (in 1945-1956 he would succeed Milford as publisher to the University of Oxford).[40] Today the North American branch in New York City is primarily a distribution branch to facilitate the sale of Oxford Bibles in the United States. It also handles marketing of all books of its parent, Macmillan. By the end of 2021, OUP USA has published eighteen Pulitzer Prize–winning books.[41]
'Books for the Mullahs', The New York Times, 27th April 1989
^ Norman Lebrecht and Ian Birrell, 'Anger over Iran book fair visits', The Sunday Times, 7th May 1989
^ Andrew Malcolm, 'The Oxford presses aren't charities but are given unfair tax breaks', The Guardian, 15 April 2009
^ Simon Winchester, The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary (Oxford, 2003)
The Bookseller Editorial team, 'OUP India forced to pay back tax', The Bookseller, 1 June 2001
^ "Secretaries to the Delegates of the Press (1868–present)". Oxford University Press. Retrieved 8 March 2022.
'Mammon's Imprint', The Times Higher Education Supplement, 12 February 1999
Reg Little, 'OUP denies it has breached Charity rules', The Oxford Times, 5 November 1999
In July 2012, the UK's Serious Fraud Office found OUP's branches in Kenya and Tanzania guilty of bribery to obtain school bookselling contracts sponsored by the World Bank. Oxford was fined £1.9 million "in recognition of sums it received which were generated through unlawful conduct" and barred from applying for World Bank-financed projects for three years.[76]
In February 1989, Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa urging the execution of British author Salman Rushdie, and of all involved in the publication of his novel The Satanic Verses. Rushdie went into hiding, and there began an international movement to boycott book trading with Iran. There was therefore outrage when in April 1989 OUP broke the world-wide embargo and chose to attend the Tehran Book Fair. OUP justified this with the statement that "We deliberated about it quite deeply but felt it certainly wasn't in our interests, or Iran's as a whole, to stay away."[50] The New York Times,[51] International Herald Tribune and the Sunday Times[52] all condemned Oxford's decision.
Oxford University Press publishes a variety of dictionaries (e.g. Oxford English Dictionary, Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Compact Oxford English Dictionary, Compact Editions of the Oxford English Dictionary, Compact Oxford English Dictionary of Current English, Concise Oxford English Dictionary, Oxford Dictionary of Marketing, Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary), English as a second or foreign language resources (e.g. Let's Go), English language exams (e.g. Oxford Test of English and the Oxford Placement Test), bibliographies (e.g. Oxford Bibliographies Online[48]), miscellaneous series such as Very Short Introductions, and books on Indology, music, classics, literature, history, Bibles, and atlases. Many of these are published under the Oxford Languages brand.
Sutcliffe, Peter (1978). The Oxford University Press: An Informal History. Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN 0-19-951084-9.
Jeevan Vasagar, 'Oxford University Press fined £1.9m over bribery by African subsidiary firms', The Guardian, 3 July 2012
Joel Rickett, 'latest news from the world of publishing', The Guardian, 30 August 2003
Louis, Wm. Roger, ed. (2014). The History of Oxford University Press: Volume III: 1896 to 1970. Oxford: OUP. ISBN 9780199568406. Also online doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199568406.001.0001.
OUP as Oxford Journals has also been a major publisher of academic journals, both in the sciences and the humanities; as of 2022[update] it publishes more than 500 journals on behalf of learned societies around the world.[44] It has been noted as one of the first university presses to publish an open access journal (Nucleic Acids Research), and probably the first to introduce Hybrid open access journals, offering "optional open access" to authors to allow all readers online access to their paper without charge.[45] The "Oxford Open" model applies to the majority of their journals.[46] The OUP is a member of the Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association.[47]
The History of Oxford University Press: Volume II: 1780 to 1896
^ Jeevan Vasagar, 'Oxford University Press fined £1.9m over bribery by African subsidiary firms', The Guardian, 3 July 2012
^ Chris Koenig, 'OUP status attacked', Oxford Mail, 16 May 2008
The History of Oxford University Press: Volume I: Beginnings to 1780
^ The Bookseller Editorial team, 'OUP India forced to pay back tax', The Bookseller, 1 June 2001
^ Joel Rickett, 'latest news from the world of publishing', The Guardian, 30 August 2003
The next Secretary, Philip Lyttelton Gell, was appointed by the Vice-Chancellor Benjamin Jowett in 1884 but struggled and was finally dismissed in 1897.[33] The Assistant Secretary, Charles Cannan, took over with little fuss and even less affection for his predecessor: "Gell was always here, but I cannot make out what he did."[34] Charles Cannan, who had been instrumental in Gell's removal, succeeded Gell in 1898.
In March 2001, after a 28-year battle with the Indian tax authorities, OUP lost its tax exemption in India. The Supreme Court ruled that OUP was not tax exempt in the subcontinent "because it does not carry out any university activities there but acts simply as a commercial publisher".[68] In order to pay off back taxes, owed since the 1970s, OUP was obliged to sell its Mumbai headquarters building, Oxford House. The Bookseller reported that "The case has again raised questions about OUP's status in the UK".[69] In 2003, Joel Rickett of The Bookseller] wrote an article in The Guardian describing the resentment of commercial rivals at OUP's tax exemption. Rickett accurately predicted that the funds which would have been paid in tax were "likely to be used to confirm OUP's dominance by buying up other publishers."[70](Between 1989 and 2018, OUP bought out over 70 rival book and journal publishers). In 2007, with the new 'public benefit' requirement of the revised Charities Act, the issue was re-examined [71] with particular reference to the OUP.[72] In 2008, CUP's and OUP's privilege was attacked by rival publishers.[73][74] In 2009 The Guardian invited Andrew Malcolm to write an article on the subject.[75]
The University of Oxford began printing around 1480 and grew into a major printer of bibles, prayer books, and scholarly works.[7] Oxford's chancellor, Archbishop William Laud, consolidated the legal status of the university's printing in the 1630s and petitioned Charles I for rights that would enable Oxford to compete with the Stationers' Company and the King's Printer. He obtained a succession of royal grants and Oxford's "Great Charter" in 1636 gave the university the right to print "all manner of books".[8] Laud also obtained the "privilege" from the Crown of printing the King James or Authorized Version of Scripture at Oxford.[9] This "privilege" created substantial returns in the next 250 years.[10]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"A Short History of Oxford University Press". Oxford University Press. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
^ Jessica Shepherd, 'Freedom of the presses', the Guardian, 17 April 2007
6Controversies											Toggle Controversies subsection																					6.1Tehran Book Fair Controversy																											6.2Malcolm vs Oxford University 1986-1992																											6.3Closure of Poetry List																											6.4Tax Exemption Controversy																											6.5East African Bribery Scandal
In November 1998, the OUP announced the closure, on commercial grounds, of its modern poetry list. Andrew Potter, OUP's director of music, trade paperbacks and Bibles, told The Times that the list "just about breaks even. The university expects us to operate on commercial grounds, especially in this day and age."[59]In the same article, the poet D. J. Enright, who had been with OUP since 1979 said, "There was no warning. It was presented as a fait accompli. Even the poetry editor didn't know....The money involved is peanuts. It's a good list, built up over many years."[59] In February 1999, Arts Minister Alan Howarth made a speech in Oxford in which he denounced the closure: "OUP is not merely a business. It is a department of the University of Oxford and has charitable status. It is part of a great university, which the Government supports financially and which exists to develop and transmit our intellectual culture....It is a perennial complaint by the English faculty that the barbarians are at the gate. Indeed they always are. But we don't expect the gatekeepers themselves, the custodians, to be barbarians."[60] Oxford's professor Valentine Cunningham wrote in the Times Higher Education Supplement: "Increasingly, (OUP) has behaved largely like a commercial outfit, with pound signs in its eyes and a readiness to dumb down for the sake of popularity and sales....Sacking poets not because they lose money but because they do not make enough of it: it is an allegory of a university press missing the point, mistaking its prime purpose."[61] In March 1999 The Times Literary Supplement commissioned Andrew Malcolm to write an article under the strapline “Why the present constitution of the OUP cannot work”.[62] A decade later, OUP's managing director, Ivon Asquith, reflected on the public relations damage caused by the episode: "If I had foreseen the self-inflicted wound we would suffer I would not have let the proposal get as far as the Finance Committee."[63]
John Brown and Clare L. Taylor, Cumberlege, Geoffrey Fenwick Jocelyn (1891–1979), Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, sl.nsw.gov.au. Retrieved 3 March 2023.
Philip Jones,'Rivals attack OUP and CUP', The Bookseller, 24 April 2008
Dalya Alberge, 'Anger over Dead Poets Society', The Times, 21st November 1998
"Secretaries to the Delegates of the Press (1868–present)". Oxford University Press. Retrieved 8 March 2022.
Chatterjee, Rimi B. (2006). Empires of the Mind: A History of the Oxford University Press in India During the Raj. New Delhi: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-567474-3.
^ Ivon Asquith letter to Roy Foster, quoted by Foster in 'The Poetry Question', Keith Robbins (ed), The History of Oxford University Press, Vol IV, OUP, 2017, p478
VenuesBullingdon GreenChrist Church GroundMagdalen GroundNew College GroundRoger Bannister running trackUniversity Parks
Barker, Nicolas (1978). The Oxford University Press and the Spread of Learning. Oxford.
"Oxford University Press to end centuries of tradition by closing its printing arm"
Chris Koenig, 'OUP status attacked', Oxford Mail, 16 May 2008
^ "About Oxford University Press". OUP Academic. Retrieved 3 August 2018.
In the 1960s OUP Southern Africa started publishing local authors, for the general reader, but also for schools and universities, under its Three Crowns Books imprint. Its territory includes Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland and Namibia, as well as South Africa, the biggest market of the five.[citation needed] OUP Southern Africa is now one of the three biggest educational publishers in South Africa, and focuses its attention on publishing textbooks, dictionaries, atlases and supplementary material for schools, and textbooks for universities. Its author base is overwhelmingly local, and in 2008 it entered into a partnership with the university to support scholarships for South Africans studying postgraduate degrees.[citation needed]
Following the English Civil War, Vice-chancellor, John Fell, Dean of Christ Church, Bishop of Oxford, and Secretary to the Delegates was determined to installed printing presses in 1668, making it the university's first central print shop.[11] In 1674 OUP began to print a broadsheet calendar, known as the Oxford Almanack, that has been produced annually without interruption from Fell's time to the present day.[12] Fell drew up the first formal programme for the university's printing which envisaged hundreds of works, including the Bible in Greek, editions of the Coptic Gospels and works of the Church Fathers, texts in Arabic and Syriac, comprehensive editions of classical philosophy, poetry, and mathematics, a wide range of medieval scholarship, and also "a history of insects, more perfect than any yet Extant."[13]
^ 'Books for the Mullahs', The New York Times, 27th April 1989
Dan Glaister, 'Minister steps into Oxford poetry list row', The Guardian, 4 February 1999
Price transformed OUP. In 1884, the year he retired as Secretary, the Delegates bought back the last shares in the business.[28] The press was now owned wholly by the university, with its own paper mill, print shop, bindery, and warehouse. Its output had increased to include school books and modern scholarly texts such as James Clerk Maxwell's A Treatise on Electricity & Magnetism (1873), which proved fundamental to Einstein's thought.[29] Simply put, without abandoning its traditions or quality of work, Price began to turn OUP into an alert, modern publisher. In 1879, he also took on the publication that led that process to its conclusion: the huge project that became the Oxford English Dictionary (OED).[30]
Cambridge University Press v. Patton, a copyright infringement suit in which OUP is a plaintiff
Empires of the Mind: A History of the Oxford University Press in India During the Raj
"About Oxford University Press". OUP Academic. Retrieved 3 August 2018.
Sutcliffe, Peter (1972). An Informal History of the OUP. Oxford: OUP.
Gadd, Ian, ed. (2014). The History of Oxford University Press: Volume I: Beginnings to 1780. Oxford: OUP. ISBN 9780199557318.
^ Dan Glaister, 'Minister steps into Oxford poetry list row', The Guardian, 4 February 1999
Equally, Price moved OUP towards publishing in its own right. The press had ended its relationship with Parker's in 1863 and in 1870 bought a small London bindery for some Bible work.[24] Macmillan's contract ended in 1880, and wasn't renewed. By this time, Oxford also had a London warehouse for Bible stock in Paternoster Row, and in 1880 its manager Henry Frowde (1841–1927) was given the formal title of Publisher to the university. Frowde came from the book trade, not the university, and remained an enigma to many. One obituary in Oxford's staff magazine The Clarendonian admitted, "Very few of us here in Oxford had any personal knowledge of him."[25] Despite that, Frowde became vital to OUP's growth, adding new lines of books to the business, presiding over the massive publication of the Revised Version of the New Testament in 1881[26] and playing a key role in setting up the press's first office outside Britain, in New York City in 1896.[27]
This page was last edited on 17 March 2023, at 13:06 (UTC).
Ivon Asquith letter to Roy Foster, quoted by Foster in 'The Poetry Question', Keith Robbins (ed), The History of Oxford University Press, Vol IV, OUP, 2017, p478
^ a b Dalya Alberge, 'Anger over Dead Poets Society', The Times, 21st November 1998
^ "Optional Open Access Experiment". Journal of Experimental Botany. Oxford Journals. Archived from the original on 4 December 2008. Retrieved 19 April 2016.
Simon Winchester, The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary (Oxford, 2003)
By the early 20th century OUP expanded its overseas trade, in part due to the efforts of Humphrey Milford, the publisher to the University of Oxford from 1913 to 1945. The 1920s saw skyrocketing prices of both materials and labour. Paper especially was hard to come by, and had to be imported from South America through trading companies. Economies and markets slowly recovered as the 1920s progressed. In 1928, the press's imprint read 'London, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leipzig, Toronto, Melbourne, Cape Town, Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Shanghai'. Not all of these were full-fledged branches: in Leipzig there was a depot run by H. Bohun Beet, and in Canada and Australia there were small, functional depots in the cities and an army of educational representatives penetrating the rural fastnesses to sell the press's stock as well as books published by firms whose agencies were held by the press, very often including fiction and light reading. In India, the Branch depots in Bombay, Madras, and Calcutta were imposing establishments with sizable stock inventories, for the Presidencies themselves were large markets, and the educational representatives there dealt mostly with upcountry trade. The Depression of 1929 dried profits from the Americas to a trickle, and India became 'the one bright spot' in an otherwise dismal picture. Bombay was the nodal point for distribution to the Africas and onward sale to Australasia, and people who trained at the three major depots moved later on to pioneer branches in Africa and South East Asia.[35]
Balter, Michael (16 February 1994). "400 Years Later, Oxford Press Thrives". The New York Times. Retrieved 28 June 2011.
Oxford University Press (OUP) is the university press of the University of Oxford. It is the largest university press in the world, and its printing history dates back to the 1480s. Having been officially granted the legal right to print books by decree in 1586,[2] it is the second oldest university press after Cambridge University Press.[3][4][5]
The period following World War II saw consolidation in the face of the breakup of the Empire and the post-war reorganization of the Commonwealth.
Court of Appeal judgement and order, 18 December 1990, CHF0480/90
^ "OUP Major Book Awards". OUP Academic. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 6 February 2022.
^ Tom Tivnan, 'Charities review could hit publishers', The Bookseller, 2007
Hart's Rules for Compositors and Readers at the University Press, Oxford
In July 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic its Bookshop on the High Street closed.
Phil Baty, 'Whistleblowers', The Times Higher Education Supplement, 22 February 2002
^ "Oxford Open". Oxford Journals. Archived from the original on 19 July 2014. Retrieved 19 April 2016.
Oxford Music: The First Fifty Years '23−'73. London: Oxford University Press Music Department. 1973.
It took the 1850 Royal Commission on the workings of the university and a new Secretary, Bartholomew Price, to shake up the press.[21] Appointed in 1868, Price had already recommended to the university that the press needed an efficient executive officer to exercise "vigilant superintendence" of the business, including its dealings with Alexander Macmillan, who became the publisher for Oxford's printing in 1863 and in 1866 helped Price to create the Clarendon Press series of cheap, elementary school books – perhaps the first time that Oxford used the Clarendon imprint.[22] Under Price, the press began to take on its modern shape. Major new lines of work began. To give one example, in 1875, the Delegates approved the series Sacred Books of the East under the editorship of Friedrich Max Müller, bringing a vast range of religious thought to a wider readership.[23]
^ G Bridden, letter to Geoffrey Cass, 9 November 1976
^ Phil Baty, 'Whistleblowers', The Times Higher Education Supplement, 22 February 2002 '
^ Books and Bookmen column, Private Eye, 15 January 1993
OUP has offices throughout the world, primarily in locations that were once part of the British Empire (mainly India and the United States).[citation needed]
The case ended in July 1992 with a Tomlin order, a damages settlement under the terms of which the servants and agents of Oxford University are permanently barred from denigrating Malcolm or Making Names, rendering it the first book in literary history to be afforded such legal protection.[55][56][57] The case was reported to have cost Oxford over £500,000.[58]
^ "A Brief History of the Press". Cambridge University Press. Retrieved 3 August 2018.
Andrew Malcom, 'Don't go to Jericho: Why the present constitution of the OUP cannot work', Times Literary Supplement, 2 April 1999
Offered to Oxford by James Murray and the Philological Society, the "New English Dictionary" was a grand academic and patriotic undertaking. Lengthy negotiations led to a formal contract. Murray was to edit a work estimated to take 10 years and to cost approximately £9,000.[31] Both figures were wildly optimistic. The Dictionary began to appear in print in 1884, but the first edition was not completed until 1928, 13 years after Murray's death, at a cost of around £375,000.[32] This vast financial burden and its implications landed on Price's successors.[citation needed]
On 27 August 2021, OUP closed Oxuniprint, its printing division. The closure will mark the "final chapter" of OUP's centuries-long history of printing.[42]
Tom Tivnan, 'Charities review could hit publishers', The Bookseller, 2007
Hinnells, Duncan (1998). An Extraordinary Performance: Hubert Foss and the Early Years of Music Publishing at the Oxford University Press. Oxford: OUP. ISBN 978-0-19-323200-6.
Maggie Hartford 'A Message from India', The Oxford Times, 30 March 2001
^ Andrew Malcom, 'Don't go to Jericho: Why the present constitution of the OUP cannot work', Times Literary Supplement, 2 April 1999
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"A Short History of Oxford University Press". Oxford University Press. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
"OUP Major Book Awards". OUP Academic. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 6 February 2022.
^ I.G. Phillip, William Blackstone and the Reform of the Oxford University Press (Oxford, 1957) pp. 45–72
Andrew Malcolm, 'The Oxford presses aren't charities but are given unfair tax breaks', The Guardian, 15 April 2009
^ John Brown and Clare L. Taylor, Cumberlege, Geoffrey Fenwick Jocelyn (1891–1979), Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, sl.nsw.gov.au. Retrieved 3 March 2023.
^ "History of the Clarendon Fund". University of Oxford. Retrieved 12 February 2018.
^ a b 'Mammon's Imprint', The Times Higher Education Supplement, 12 February 1999
"A Brief History of the Press". Cambridge University Press. Retrieved 3 August 2018.
For the last 500 years, OUP has primarily focused on the publication of pedagogical texts and continues this tradition today by publishing academic journals, dictionaries, English language resources, bibliographies, books on indology, music, classics, literature, history, as well as bibles and atlases.
The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary
"Optional Open Access Experiment". Journal of Experimental Botany. Oxford Journals. Archived from the original on 4 December 2008. Retrieved 19 April 2016.
The Oxford University Press Museum is located on Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. Visits must be booked in advance and are led by a member of the archive staff. Displays include a 19th-century printing press, the OUP buildings, and the printing and history of the Oxford Almanack, Alice in Wonderland and the Oxford English Dictionary.[citation needed]
^ Balter, Michael (16 February 1994). "400 Years Later, Oxford Press Thrives". The New York Times. Retrieved 28 June 2011.
In 1990 in the UK Court of Appeal author Andrew Malcolm won a landmark legal judgment against Oxford University (Press) for its breach of a contract to publish his philosophical text Making Names. Reporting on the verdict in The Observer, Laurence Marks wrote, "It is the first time in living memory that Grub Street has won such a victory over its oppressors".[53] The Appeal Court judges were highly critical of Oxford's conduct of the affair and of the litigation. Lord Justice Mustill declared "The Press is one of the longest-established publishing houses in the United Kingdom, and no doubt in the world. They must have been aware from the outset that the absence of agreement on the matters in question [the book's print-run and format] was not, in the trade, regarded as preventing a formal agreement from coming into existence. Candour would, I believe, have required that this should have been made clear to the judge and ourselves, rather than a determined refusal to let the true position come to light... This is not quite all. I do not know whether an outsider studying the history of this transaction and of this litigation would feel that, in his self-financed struggle with the assembled Chancellor, Masters and Scholars of the University of Oxford the appellant has had a fair crack of the whip. I certainly do not... Mr Charkin took the decision [to renege on the OUP editor's contract], not because he thought the book was no good - he had never seen it and the reports were favourable - but because he thought it would not sell. Let there be no mistake about it, the failure of this transaction was about money, not prestige. Nor does the course of the litigation give any reason to suppose that the Press had any interest but to resist the claim, no matter on what grounds, so long as they succeeded."[54] Lord Justice Leggatt added: "It is difficult to know what the Deputy Judge (Lightman) meant by a 'firm commitment' other than an intention to create legal relations. Nothing short of that would have had any value whatever for Mr Malcolm... To suggest that Mr Hardy intended to induce Mr Malcolm to revise the book by giving him a valueless assurance would be tantamount to an imputation of fraud... It follows that in my judgment when Mr Hardy used the expressions 'commitment' and 'a fair royalty' he did in fact mean what he said; and I venture to think that it would take a lawyer to arrive at any other conclusion. There was therefore an enforceable contract for the publication of Mr Malcolm's book... The Respondents' final statement may be thought unworthy of them.”[54]
^ Maggie Hartford 'A Message from India', The Oxford Times, 30 March 2001
Phil Baty, 'Whistleblowers', The Times Higher Education Supplement, 22 February 2002 '
The History of Oxford University Press: Volume IV: 1970 to 2004
Robbins, Keith, ed. (2017). The History of Oxford University Press: Volume IV: 1970 to 2004. Oxford: OUP. ISBN 9780199574797.
"Oxford Open". Oxford Journals. Archived from the original on 19 July 2014. Retrieved 19 April 2016.
^ quoted in "Such principled publishers", an article in The Bookseller, 5 May 1989
Flood, Alison (9 June 2021). "Oxford University Press to end centuries of tradition by closing its printing arm". The Guardian. Retrieved 9 June 2021.
^ Laurence Marks, 'A builder's dialogue that silenced OUP', The Observer, 23 December 1990
Eliot, Simon, ed. (2014). The History of Oxford University Press: Volume II: 1780 to 1896. Oxford: OUP. ISBN 9780199543151.
^ a b Court of Appeal judgement and order, 18 December 1990, CHF0480/90
CompetitionsCuppersThe Boat RaceWomen's Boat RaceHenley Boat RacesPolo Varsity MatchRugby League Varsity MatchRugby Union Varsity MatchUniversity Cricket MatchUniversity Golf Match
Generally speaking, the early 18th century marked a lull in the press's expansion. It suffered from the absence of any figure comparable to Fell. The business was rescued by the intervention of a single Delegate, William Blackstone. Disgusted by the chaotic state of the press, and antagonized by the Vice-Chancellor George Huddesford, Blackstone called for sweeping reforms that would firmly set out the Delegates' powers and obligations, officially record their deliberations and accounting, and put the print shop on an efficient footing.[14] Nonetheless, Randolph ignored this document, and it was not until Blackstone threatened legal action that changes began. The university had moved to adopt all of Blackstone's reforms by 1760.[15]
^ Flood, Alison (9 June 2021). "Oxford University Press to end centuries of tradition by closing its printing arm". The Guardian. Retrieved 9 June 2021.
Laurence Marks, 'A builder's dialogue that silenced OUP', The Observer, 23 December 1990
Since 2001, Oxford University Press has financially supported the Clarendon bursary, a University of Oxford graduate scholarship scheme.[49]
Illustrated article: The Most Famous Press in the World, World's Work and Play, June 1903
Since the 1940s, both OUP and the Cambridge University Press (CUP), had made applications to the Inland Revenue for exemption from corporate tax. The first application, by CUP in 1940, was refused "on the ground that, since the Press was printing and publishing for the outside world and not simply for the internal use of the University, the Press's trade went beyond the purpose and objects of the University and (in terms of the Act) was not exercised in the course of the actual carrying out of a primary purpose of the University."[64] Similar applications by OUP in 1944 and 1950 were also rejected by the Inland Revenue, whose officers repeatedly pointed out that the university presses were in open competition with commercial, tax-liable publishers. In November 1975 CUP's chief executive Geoffrey Cass again applied to the Inland Revenue, and a year later CUP's tax-exemption was quietly conceded.[65][66] OUP's Chief Executive George Richardson followed suit in 1977 and OUP's tax-exemption was granted in 1978. The decisions were not made public. The issue was only brought to public attention as a result of press interest in OUP, following the poetry list closure controversy.[61] In 1999, the campaigner Andrew Malcolm published his second book The Remedy, in which he alleged that OUP is in breach of its 1978 tax-exemption conditions. This was reported in a front page article in The Oxford Times, along with OUP's response.[67]
The press now entered an era of enormous change. In 1830, it was still a joint-stock printing business in an academic backwater, offering learned works to a relatively small readership of scholars and clerics [17] At this time, Thomas Combe joined the press and became the university's Printer until his death in 1872. Combe was a better business man than most Delegates, but still no innovator: he failed to grasp the huge commercial potential of India paper, which grew into one of Oxford's most profitable trade secrets in later years.[18] Even so, Combe earned a fortune through his shares in the business and the acquisition and renovation of the bankrupt paper mill at Wolvercote. Combe showed little interest, however, in producing fine printed work at the press.[19] The most well-known text associated with his print shop was the flawed first edition of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, printed by Oxford at the expense of its author Lewis Carroll (Charles Lutwidge Dodgson) in 1865.[20]
quoted in "Such principled publishers", an article in The Bookseller, 5 May 1989
Carter, Harry Graham (1975). A History of the Oxford University Press. Oxford: Clarendon Press. OCLC 955872307.
Jessica Shepherd, 'Freedom of the presses', the Guardian, 17 April 2007
I.G. Phillip, William Blackstone and the Reform of the Oxford University Press (Oxford, 1957) pp. 45–72
The History of Oxford University Press: Volume III: 1896 to 1970
^ Reg Little, 'OUP denies it has breached Charity rules', The Oxford Times, 5 November 1999
In 1923 OUP established a Music Department.[36] At the time, such musical publishing enterprises, however, were rare.[37] and few of the Delegates or former Publishers were themselves musical or had extensive music backgrounds.[citation needed] OUP bought an Anglo-French Music Company and all its facilities, connections, and resources.[36] This concentration provided OUP two mutually reinforcing benefits: a niche in music publishing unoccupied by potential competitors, and a branch of music performance and composition that the English themselves had largely neglected. Hinnells proposes that the early Music Department's "mixture of scholarship and cultural nationalism" in an area of music with largely unknown commercial prospects was driven by its sense of cultural philanthropy (given the press's academic background) and a desire to promote "national music outside the German mainstream."[38]It was not until 1939 that the Music Department showed its first profitable year.[39]
Norman Lebrecht and Ian Birrell, 'Anger over Iran book fair visits', The Sunday Times, 7th May 1989
"History of the Clarendon Fund". University of Oxford. Retrieved 12 February 2018.
Operations in South Asia and East and South East Asia were and, in the case of the former, remain major parts of the company.
^ Philip Jones,'Rivals attack OUP and CUP', The Bookseller, 24 April 2008
^ "Lords Justices of Appeal". Archived from the original on 18 June 2012.
The court has two divisions, Criminal and Civil, led by the Lord Chief Justice and the Master of the Rolls and Records of the Chancery of England respectively. Criminal appeals are heard in the Criminal Division, and civil appeals in the Civil Division. The Criminal Division hears appeals from the Crown Court, while the Civil Division hears appeals from the County Court, High Court of Justice and Family Court. Permission to appeal is normally required from either the lower court or the Court of Appeal itself; and with permission, further appeal may lie to the Supreme Court.
The division of work in the Court of Appeal is demonstrated by the 2005 statistics, in which Lords and Lady Justices sat 66% of the time, High Court Judges 26% of the time and Circuit and Deputy High Court Judges 8 per cent of the time.[32] Lord and Lady Justices are currently paid £188,900, with the Master of the Rolls paid £205,700 and the Lord Chief Justice £230,400.[33]
^ channel4.com – "Cameras in court for the first time". Accessed 1 November 2013
Sections 54 to 59 of the Access to Justice Act 1999 and Part 52 of the Civil Procedure Rules 1998 came into force on 2 May 2000, and created one universal appeals system; not all of these are to the Court of Appeal, with the principle used that an appeal should go to the next highest court in the hierarchy.[22] Appeals are allowed if the decision in the court below was incorrect, or suffered from a serious procedural error or irregularity.[23]
where the previous decision was made without the judges knowing of a particular law:
Landmark Day for Justice: Television Broadcasting in court goes live
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Wilson, Arthur (1875). The Supreme Court of Judicature Acts, 1873 and 1875. London: Stevens and Sons. Retrieved 16 May 2019 – via archive.org.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Wilson, Arthur (1875). The Supreme Court of Judicature Acts, 1873 and 1875. London: Stevens and Sons. Retrieved 16 May 2019 – via archive.org.
On 31 October 2013 the Court of Appeal allowed cameras in the court for a (70-second broadcast delay) "live" broadcast feed for the first time.[35] Cameras were banned in all courts in 1925 (although they were allowed in the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom from its 2009 inception). Cameras have now been allowed in some courts due to changes made by the Crime and Courts Act 2013. In 2013, only one court could be broadcast per day.[36]
The new legal structure provided a single Court of Appeal, which heard appeals from all the various divisions of the new unified High Court of Justice. It only heard civil cases: opportunities for appealing in criminal cases remained limited until the 20th century.[7] In its early days, the Court of Appeal divided its sittings between Westminster Hall for appeals from the Common Law divisions, and Lincoln's Inn for Chancery, Probate, Divorce and Admiralty appeals, with five Lords Justices. After the opening of the Royal Courts of Justice in 1882 the Court of Appeal transferred there, where it remains. As well as the Lords Justices, the Lord Chancellor, any previous Lords Chancellor, the Lord Chief Justice, the Lords of Appeal in Ordinary, the Vice-Chancellor of the Chancery Division and the Master of the Rolls could also hear cases, although in practice only the Master of the Rolls did so.[8]
The Civil Division deals with all non-criminal cases, and has been part of the court since its establishment in 1875. The Civil Division is bound by the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom when making decisions, and is normally bound by its own previous decisions, with four exceptions:[citation needed]
A second set of reforms to the appeals system followed the report of the Evershed Committee on High Court Procedure in 1953, which recognised the high cost to the litigants of an additional set of appeals, particularly since the loser in a civil case paid the victor's legal bills. Among the few changes that were made, the practice ceased of counsel reading out the judgment, cross-examinations, documents and evidence given in the lower court; this saved time and costs. The process of "leapfrogging" (appealing from the High Court to the House of Lords without needing to go through the Court of Appeal), which the committee had recommended, was eventually brought into force with the Administration of Justice Act 1969.[10]
The absence of limits on appeals to the House of Lords was the cause of much concern: it led to an additional set of expensive and time-consuming appeals from the Court of Appeal, which thus could not take decisions in the knowledge that they were final. The appeals from the county courts were seen similarly, involving an appeal to the High Court of Justice and the bypassing of the Court of Appeal for a second set of appeals to the Lords. The Administration of Justice (Appeals) Act 1934, a short statute, solved both problems neatly by abolishing the appeal of county court decisions to the High Court and instead sending them automatically to the Court of Appeal, and by establishing that appeals to the Lords could only take place with the consent of the Court of Appeal or of the Lords themselves.[9]
Lords and Lady Justices have, since 1946, been drawn exclusively from the High Court of Justice; prior to this, Lords Justices were sometimes recruited directly from the Bar.[31] Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss was the first woman appointed as a Lord Justice of Appeal in 1988; she was known officially as "Lord Justice" until a practice direction was issued in 1994 to refer to her informally as "Lady Justice", and the official title in section 3 of the Senior Courts Act 1981 was amended by the Courts Act 2003. Dame Kathryn Thirlwall was the twelfth Lady Justice, appointed in 2017, bringing the number of active Lady Justices to 9 out of 39.
Although the Lord Chief Justice is senior to the Master of the Rolls, the Civil Division is much broader in scope than the Criminal Division. With only three judges on the bench (rather than five or more in the Supreme Court), this allows the Master of the Rolls huge opportunity for shaping the common law and, most notably, Lord Denning made the most of this potential.[citation needed]
High Court of JusticePresident of the King's BenchHigh Court judge
"Going to Court: Court of Appeal". Judiciary of England and Wales. Retrieved 28 October 2012.
This page was last edited on 10 February 2023, at 09:44 (UTC).
The Criminal Division was established in 1966 with the merger of the Court of Criminal Appeal into the Court of Appeal. It hears all appeals from the Crown Court which are in connection with a trial on indictment (i.e. with a jury) and where the Crown Court has sentenced a defendant committed from the Magistrates' Court. It also exercises the jurisdiction to order the issue of writs of venire de novo.[19] The Criminal Division, while bound by the Supreme Court, is more flexible with binding itself, due to the heightened stakes in a case where a possible penalty is a prison sentence.[20] The Division is led by the Lord Chief Justice, currently Lord Burnett of Maldon, assisted by the Vice-President of the Criminal Division, currently Lord Justice Fulford.[21]
The Court of Appeal's main judges are the Lord Justices of Appeal and Lady Justices of Appeal. The Senior Courts Act 1981 provides that the Court of Appeal comprises 39 ordinary sitting Lords and Lady Justices and the Lord Chief Justice, Master of the Rolls, President of the Queen's Bench Division, President of the Family Division, and Chancellor of the High Court.[30] Retired Lords and Lady Justices sometimes sit in cases, as have retired Law Lords, and High Court judges are allowed to sit on occasion and there are a number of Senior Circuit Judges authorised to sit as judges of the Criminal Division.
where a law was assumed to exist in a previous case but did not.
The appeal system before 1875 was "chaotic". The superior courts system consisted of 12 different courts, with appeal on common law matters to the Court of Exchequer Chamber, chancery matters to the Court of Appeal in Chancery and other matters to the Privy Council. The Judicature Commission, which was founded in 1867 to investigate the formation of a "Supreme Court" (a High Court and Court of Appeal), conducted a review of this. The result was published in 1869. The recommendation was that there should be a common system of appeal from all of the High Court divisions, with a limited set of appeals allowed to the House of Lords.[5] This reform was implemented by the Judicature Acts, with the Appellate Jurisdiction Act 1876 giving an almost limitless right of appeal to the Lords.[6]
High Court of JusticePresident of the King's BenchPresident of the Family DivisionChancellor of the High CourtHigh Court judge
The Court of Appeal (formally "His Majesty's Court of Appeal in England",[2] commonly cited as "CA", "EWCA" or "CoA") is the highest court within the Senior Courts of England and Wales, and second in the legal system of England and Wales only to the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom.[3] The Court of Appeal was created in 1875,[4] and today comprises 39 Lord Justices of Appeal and Lady Justices of Appeal.[4]
Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1877Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1891
In the early 1960s there was discussion between judges and academics in the United Kingdom and the United States comparing the processes of appeal used in each nation. Although the British judges found the emphasis on written arguments unattractive, they did like the idea of pre-reading: that the court should read the pleadings of counsel, the case being appealed and the judgment from the lower court before delivering its judgment. But the idea was quietly scrapped, despite a successful tryout in the Court of Appeal. The court over which Lord Denning presided from 1962 to 1982 was under no pressure and had no inclination to modernise, with liaisons and management[clarification needed] handled by clerks with little knowledge.[clarification needed] This changed in 1981 with the appointment of a Registrar, John Adams, an academic and lawyer, who significantly reformed the internal workings of the Court.[11]
Bowman's recommendations were mainly enacted through statutory provisions, such as Part IV of the Access to Justice Act 1999. In Tanfern Ltd v Cameron-MacDonald [2000] 1 WLR 1311, Brooke LJ laid down the procedural methods of the Court of Appeal post-Woolf and Bowman. With a few exceptions, such as cases where "the liberty of the subject" is an issue, permission is required to appeal, and may be granted either by the lower court or by the Court of Appeal.[15] As a general rule, appeals are now limited to a review of the decision of the lower court, only allowing a full appeal where there was a serious procedural irregularity or the decision was wrong through "blatant error".[16]
Elliott, Catherine; Frances Quinn (2008). English Legal System (9th ed.). Pearson Longman. ISBN 978-1-4058-5941-7.
Under certain, limited, circumstances, second appeals are allowed. This is when an appeal goes to the High Court or the County Court and a party to the case wishes to appeal it further, to the Court of Appeal. Section 55(1) of the Access to Justice Act 1999 says that, when an appeal is made to the County Court or the High Court and that court makes a decision, no further appeal is allowed to the Court of Appeal unless the Court considers that the case raises "an important point of principle or practice" or "there is some other compelling reason for the Court of Appeal to hear it".[26] In Tanfern Ltd v Cameron-MacDonald [2000] 1 WLR 1311 the Court commented on this limitation of second appeals, pointing out that the Lords Justices of Appeal were a valuable and scarce resource – it was necessary to impose limitations on appeals to prevent the Court and its judges becoming overburdened.[27]
A separate Court of Criminal Appeal had been established in 1908. In 1966 this was merged with its older namesake, establishing the present-day structure of a single Court of Appeal with two Divisions: Civil and Criminal.[7]
The Court of Appeal deals only with appeals from other courts or tribunals. The Court of Appeal consists of two divisions: the Civil Division hears appeals from the High Court and the County Court and certain superior tribunals, while the Criminal Division may only hear appeals from the Crown Court connected with a trial on indictment (i.e., for a serious offence). Its decisions are binding on all courts, including itself, apart from the Supreme Court.
Drewry, Gavin; Louis Bloom-Cooper; Charles Blake (2007). The Court of Appeal. Suzanne Fullbrook. Oxford and Portland, Oregon: Hart Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84113-387-4.
The Civil Division is led by the Master of the Rolls, currently Sir Geoffrey Vos; the Chancellor of the High Court and President of the Family Division regularly, for a period of weeks, lead the Civil Division. Several Civil Division Lords Justices are seconded to the Criminal Division, which is currently led by the Lord Chief Justice, the Lord Burnett of Maldon.[34]
List of judges of the Court of Appeal of England and Wales
^ "Going to Court: Court of Appeal". Judiciary of England and Wales. Retrieved 28 October 2012.
where there is a later conflicting Supreme Court or House of Lords decision, and
In July 1996, Lord Woolf published Access to Justice, a report on the accessibility of the courts to the public. Woolf identified civil litigation as being characterised by excessive cost, delay and complexity, and succeeded in replacing the diverse rules with a single set of Civil Procedure Rules.[12] Before Woolf had even published his final report, Sir Jeffery Bowman, the recently retired senior partner of PriceWaterhouse, was commissioned to write a report on the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal. Bowman noted a growing workload and delays, with 14 months between setting down and disposing of a case in 70% of cases, the rest taking even longer than that – some had taken five years.[13] He recommended extending the requirement to ask leave to appeal to almost all appeal cases; allowing certain appeals to be heard at a lower level; focusing of procedure; imposition of time limits on oral arguments; and the use of judicial time more towards reading and less towards sitting in court.[14]
The first three were established by the case of Young v Bristol Aeroplane Co Ltd in 1946, the fourth by R (on the application of Kadhim) v Brent London Borough Housing Benefit Review Board in 2001.[17] The Civil Division is led by the Master of the Rolls, currently Sir Geoffrey Vos (who is entitled to the post-nominal MR), assisted by the Vice-President of the Civil Division, Sir Nicholas Underhill. The division hears cases from the High Court of Justice, the County Court and several tribunals.[18]
Master of the Rolls and Records of the Chancery of England
channel4.com – "Cameras in court for the first time". Accessed 1 November 2013
"Lords Justices of Appeal". Archived from the original on 18 June 2012.
County CourtList of County Court venuesCounty Court Business CentreDistrict judge
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.1Formation and early history																											1.2Changes in appellate jurisdiction and procedure																											1.3The Woolf and Bowman reforms
Almost all appeals require permission, a major innovation from the previous system, where appeals were, on the request of counsel, almost all automatically put through. The application for permission should be made to the lower court, although this is not mandatory; it may be asked of the appellate court itself. In Re T (A Child) [2002] EWCA Civ 1736, the Civil Division strongly advised that counsel apply at the lower courts, since the judge, fully aware of the facts, will take less time to process, there is no harm if the application fails or if it is approved but counsel decides not to proceed with the case and there are no additional costs involved. The only problem here is that judgments may occasionally be reserved, and only given later by post – there may not be an opportunity to ask for permission to appeal at the lower court.[24]
There are two sorts of hearings that the Court of Appeal can hold; reviews, and full rehearings. Section 52.11(1) of the Civil Procedure Rules 1998 establishes that appeals should always be reviews, unless there are individual circumstances that, "in the interest of justice", make a rehearing necessary.[28] In its case law, the Court has emphasised that it is up to the individual panel of judges to decide whether to hold a review or rehearing, with the circumstances of the case playing a large part.[23] In 2004 the Court heard 1,059 appeals, of which 295 were allowed and 413 directly dismissed.[29]
^ Ministry for Justice. "Landmark Day for Justice: Television Broadcasting in court goes live" infosheet. Accessed online 1 November 2013
Ministry for Justice. "Landmark Day for Justice: Television Broadcasting in court goes live" infosheet. Accessed online 1 November 2013
The Court of Appeal, when considering an application for appeal, may decide based on the paper documents or refer the case to an oral hearing, something often done when it is apparent that a refusal of the written case will lead the applicant to send a second, oral application. If a written application is refused, the applicant may ask for an oral hearing to discuss the refusal. Under the Civil Procedure Rules 1998, the appeal must have "a real prospect of success", or there must be "some other compelling reason why the appeal should be heard" for it to be accepted.[25]
3Compensatory damages											Toggle Compensatory damages subsection																					3.1Quantum (measure) of damages																											3.2Special damages																								3.2.1Incidental and consequential losses																											3.2.2Breach of contract duty - (ex contract)																											3.2.3Breach of tort duty - (ex delicto)																														3.3General damages																								3.3.1General damages in personal injury cases
"Citing Taylor Swift, Supreme Court Seems Set to Back Nominal Damages Suits"
Parties may contract for liquidated damages to be paid upon a breach of the contract by one of the parties. Under common law, a liquidated damages clause will not be enforced if the purpose of the term is solely to punish a breach (in this case it is termed penal damages).[23] The clause will be enforceable if it involves a genuine attempt to quantify a loss in advance and is a good faith estimate of economic loss. Courts have ruled as excessive and invalidated damages which the parties contracted as liquidated, but which the court nonetheless found to be penal. To determine whether a clause is a liquidated damages clause or a penalty clause, it is necessary to consider:
Damages are usually assessed at the date of the wrongful act, but in England and Wales, Pelling J has observed that this is not the case if justice requires the assessment of damages to be calculated at some other date. In Murfin v Ford Campbell, an agreement had been entered into whereby company shares were exchanged for loan notes, which could only be redeemed if certain profit thresholds had been achieved in the relevant accounting years. As the thresholds were not met, the loan notes were not redeemable, but at the date of the advisors' breach of contract this could not be known, only the loan notes' face value could be known. The conclusion was that in this case valuation could not be done until after the profit performance became known. In his judgement Pelling also referred to the case of Smith New Court Securities Ltd v Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) Ltd, a case where continuing misrepresentation affected the appropriate date for damages to be assessed.[12]
The quantification of personal injury is not an exact science. In English law solicitors treat personal injury claims as "general damages" for pain and suffering and loss of amenity (PSLA). Solicitors quantify personal injury claims by reference to previous awards made by the courts which are "similar" to the case in hand. The Judicial College's Guidelines for the Assessment of General Damages in Personal Injury Cases are adjusted following periodic review of the awards which have been made by the courts since the previous review.[29]
This heading is inextricably linked with the other points above. Where two clients are of the same age, experience and suffer the same injury, it does not necessarily mean that they will be affected the same. We are all different. Some people will recover more quickly than others. The courts will assess each claim on its own particular facts and therefore if one claimant recovers more quickly than another, the damages will be reflected accordingly. It is important to note here that "psychological injuries" may also follow from an accident which may increase the quantum of damages.
Statutory damages are an amount stipulated within the statute rather than calculated based on the degree of harm to the plaintiff. Lawmakers will provide for statutory damages for acts in which it is difficult to determine the value of the harm to the victim. Mere violation of the law can entitle the victim to a statutory award, even if no actual injury occurred. These are different from nominal damages, in which no written sum is specified.
"Duty to Mitigate". Wex. Cornell Law School. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
^ Koziol, Helmut; Wilcox, Vanessa (2011). 3709109647. Springer Vienna. ISBN 978-3709109649. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
Spartan Steel & Alloys Ltd v Martin & Co (Contractors) Ltd
Morris, Clarence (March 1959). "Liability for Pain and Suffering". Columbia Law Review. 59 (3): 476–485. doi:10.2307/1120125. JSTOR 1120125.
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission v Esanda Finance Corporation Ltd [2003] FCA 1225 (7 November 2003), Federal Court (Australia).
As an example, Neal agrees to sell Mary an antique Rolex watch for £100. In fact the watch is a fake and worth only £50. If it had been a genuine antique Rolex, it would have been worth £500. Neal is in breach of contract and could be sued. In contract, Mary is entitled to an item worth £500, but she has only one worth £50. Her damages are £450. Neal also induced Mary to enter into the contract through a misrepresentation (a tort). If Mary sues in tort, she is entitled to damages that put herself back to the same financial position place she would have been in had the misrepresentation not been made. She would clearly not have entered into the contract knowing the watch was fake, and is entitled to her £100 back. Thus her damages in tort are £100. (However, she would have to return the watch, or else her damages would be £50.)
Damages in tort are generally awarded to place the claimant in the position that would have been taken had the tort not taken place. Damages in tort are quantified under two headings: general damages and special damages.
McRae v Commonwealth Disposals Commission [1951] HCA 79, (1951) 84 CLR 377, High Court (Australia).
Bartels, Natalia M.; Madden, M. Stuart (2001). "A Comparative Analysis of United States and Colombian Tort Law: Duty, Breach, and Damages". Pace International Law Review. 13: 59. Retrieved 6 July 2020.
Sanders, Joseph (2008). "Reforming General Damages: A Good Tort Reform". Roger Williams University Law Rev. 13: 115. Retrieved 6 July 2020.
Solicitors will consider "like for like" injuries with the case in hand and similar cases decided by the courts previously. These cases are known as precedents. Generally speaking decisions from the higher courts will bind the lower courts. Therefore, judgments from the House of Lords and the Court of Appeal have greater authority than the lower courts such as the High Court and the County Court. A compensation award can only be right or wrong with reference to that specific judgment. Solicitors must be careful when looking at older cases when quantifying a claim to ensure that the award is brought up to date and to take into account the court of appeal case in Heil v Rankin[30] Generally speaking the greater the injury the greater the damages awarded.
ii) Whether there is a single sum stipulated for a number of different breaches, or individual sums for each breach[25]
^ See, e.g., the U.S. Supreme Court cases of "The Conqueror, 166 US 110, 17 S. Ct. 510, 41 L. Ed. 937 (1897)". Google Scholar. Retrieved 19 September 2017. and "Palmer v. Connecticut Railway & Lighting Co., 311 US 544, 61 S. Ct. 379, 85 L. Ed. 336 (1941)". Google Scholar. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
See, e.g., Spartan Steel & Alloys Ltd v Martin & Co (Contractors) Ltd[1973] 1 QB 27; Electrochrome v Welsh Plastics [1968] 2 All ER 205,, and British Celanese v Hunt [1969] 1 WLR 959
^ Heil v Rankin & Another [2000] EWCA Civ 84, Court of Appeal
Simmons v. Castle, Case No: A3/2011/1846, paragraph 12, published 26 July 2012, accessed 17 July 2022
Rookes v Barnard has been much criticised and has not been followed in Canada or Australia or by the Privy Council.
Special damages compensate the claimant for the quantifiable monetary losses he has suffered.[13] For example, extra costs, repair or replacement of damaged property, lost earnings (both historically and in the future), loss of irreplaceable items, additional domestic costs, and so on.[14] They are seen in both personal and commercial actions.
Among the Saxons, a monetary value called a weregild was assigned to every human being and every piece of property in the Salic Code. If property was stolen or someone was injured or killed, the guilty person had to pay the weregild as restitution to the victim's family or to the owner of the property.
Compensatory damages are paid to compensate the claimant for loss, injury, or harm suffered by the claimant as a result of another's breach of duty that caused the loss.[6] For example, compensatory damages may be awarded as the result of a negligence claim under tort law. Expectation damages are used in contract law to put an injured party in the position it would have occupied but for the breach.[7] Compensatory damages can be classified as special damages and general damages.[8]
^ Spetz, Steven E (1974). "Civil Court Procedure And Remedies For Tort". Can I Sue? An Introduction to Canadian Tort Law. Toronto: Pitman. p. 219. ISBN 0-273-04189-4.
^ Dewer, Devin (March 8, 2021). "Supreme Court sides with Christian students silenced on Georgia campus". ABC News. Retrieved March 8, 2021.
Generally, punitive damages, which are also termed exemplary damages in the United Kingdom, are not awarded in order to compensate the plaintiff, but in order to reform or deter the defendant and similar persons from pursuing a course of action such as that which damaged the plaintiff. Punitive damages are awarded only in special cases where conduct was egregiously insidious and are over and above the amount of compensatory damages, such as in the event of malice or intent. Great judicial restraint is expected to be exercised in their application. In the United States punitive damages awards are subject to the limitations imposed by the due process of law clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Actual Damages". Wex. Cornell Law School. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
Dewer, Devin (March 8, 2021). "Supreme Court sides with Christian students silenced on Georgia campus". ABC News. Retrieved March 8, 2021.
^ Commonwealth v Amann Aviation [1991] HCA 54, (1991) 174 CLR 64, High Court (Australia).
^ Clark v Macourt [2013] HCA 93, High Court (Australia).
^ "Duty to Mitigate". Wex. Cornell Law School. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
^ Lambert, J. (The Hon. Mrs Justice Lambert DBE), Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse - Accountability and Reparations Investigation report: recommendations, letter to Alexandra Merity, Investigation Lawyer, Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse, sent 7 February 2020, accessed 26 September 2022
In England and Wales the House of Lords case of Attorney-General v. Blake opened up the possibility of restitutionary damages for breach of contract. In this case the profits made by a defecting spy, George Blake, for the publication of his book, were awarded to the British Government for breach of contract. The case has been followed in English courts, but the situations in which restitutionary damages will be available remain unclear.
"Remedies for Breach of Contract — Judicial Education Center". jec.unm.edu. Retrieved 2020-04-13.
^ Oliphant, Ken; Lunney, Mark (2008). Tort Law: Text and Materials. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. p. 865. ISBN 978-0199211364.
If the transaction were a "bad bargain", tort gives a better result for the claimant. If in the above example Mary had overpaid, paying £750 for the watch, her damages in contract would still be £450 (giving her the item she contracted to buy), however in tort damages are £700. This is because damages in tort put her in the position she would have been in had the tort not taken place, and are calculated as her money back (£750) less the value of what she actually got (£50).
^ a b Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co Ltd v Selfridge & Co Ltd [1915] UKHL 1, [1915] AC 847 (26 April 1915).
Some jurisdictions recognize a form of damages, called, aggravated damages, that are similar to punitive or exemplary damages. Aggravated damages are not often awarded; they apply where the injury has been aggravated by the wrongdoer's behaviour, for example, their cruelty.[39]
^ Cooter, Robert; Eisenberg, Melvin A. (1985). "Damages for Breach of Contract". California Law Review. 73 (5): 1432. doi:10.2307/3480408. JSTOR 3480408. Retrieved 6 July 2020.
Special damages are sometimes divided into incidental damages, and consequential damages.
General damages are monetary compensation for the non-monetary aspects of the specific harm suffered. These damages are sometimes termed 'pain, suffering and loss of amenity'. Examples of this include physical or emotional pain and suffering, loss of companionship, loss of consortium, disfigurement, loss of reputation, impairment of mental or physical capacity, hedonic damages or loss of enjoyment of life, etc.[26] This is not easily quantifiable, and depends on the individual circumstances of the claimant. Judges in the United Kingdom base the award on damages awarded in similar previous cases. In 2012 the Court of Appeal of England and Wales noted that .mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}
Beaman, Richard (2010-09-22). "Loss of Amenity". Douglas Wemyss Solicitors. Leicester. Archived from the original on 2010-11-15.
Oppressive, arbitrary or unconstitutional actions by the servants of government.
Spetz, Steven E (1974). "Civil Court Procedure And Remedies For Tort". Can I Sue? An Introduction to Canadian Tort Law. Toronto: Pitman. p. 219. ISBN 0-273-04189-4.
The basis for restitutionary damages is much debated, but is usually seen as based on denying a wrongdoer any profit from his wrongdoing. The really difficult question, and one which is currently unanswered, relates to what wrongs should allow this remedy.
Where the defendant's conduct was 'calculated' to make a profit for himself.
"Clark v Macourt: Defective Sperm and Performance Substitutes in the High Court of Australia"
^ Amev-Udc Finance Ltd v Austin [1986] HCA 63, (1986) 162 CLR 170 (4 November 1986), High Court (Australia).
^ "Remedies for Breach of Contract — Judicial Education Center". jec.unm.edu. Retrieved 2020-04-13.
^ Frankel, Alison (August 24, 2017). "Come for the sex toys. Stay for the newly created circuit split on mootness". Reuters. Retrieved January 11, 2021.
"Punitive Damages". Wex. Cornell Law School. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
General damages are generally awarded only in claims brought by individuals, when they have suffered personal harm. Examples would be personal injury (following the tort of negligence by the defendant), or the tort of defamation.
^ McBride, Bagshaw (2018). Tort Law (6 ed.). Pearson. p. 784.
Goldberg, John C.P. (2005). "Two Conceptions of Tort Damages: Fair v. Full Compensation". DePaul Law Review. 55: 435. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
At common law, damages are a remedy in the form of a monetary award to be paid to a claimant as compensation for loss or injury.[1] To warrant the award, the claimant must show that a breach of duty has caused foreseeable loss. To be recognised at law, the loss must involve damage to property, or mental or physical injury; pure economic loss is rarely recognised for the award of damages.[2]
2Proof of damages											Toggle Proof of damages subsection																					2.1Proximate cause																											2.2Expert testimony
The age of the client is important especially when dealing with fatal accident claims or permanent injuries. The younger the injured victim with a permanent injury the longer that person has to live with the PSLA. As a consequence, the greater the compensation payment. In fatal accident claims, generally the younger deceased, the greater the dependency claim by the partner and children.
Behand, Nadine (2009). How To Run Your Own Court Case. Sydney: Redfern Legal Centre. p. 145. ISBN 978-1-921410-83-3.
^ Morris, Clarence (March 1959). "Liability for Pain and Suffering". Columbia Law Review. 59 (3): 476–485. doi:10.2307/1120125. JSTOR 1120125.
Amev-Udc Finance Ltd v Austin [1986] HCA 63, (1986) 162 CLR 170 (4 November 1986), High Court (Australia).
^ See, e.g., Spartan Steel & Alloys Ltd v Martin & Co (Contractors) Ltd[1973] 1 QB 27; Electrochrome v Welsh Plastics [1968] 2 All ER 205,, and British Celanese v Hunt [1969] 1 WLR 959
Punitive damages awarded in a US case would be difficult to get recognition for in a European court, where punitive damages are most likely to be considered to violate ordre public.[38]
Frankel, Alison (August 24, 2017). "Come for the sex toys. Stay for the newly created circuit split on mootness". Reuters. Retrieved January 11, 2021.
Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co Ltd v Selfridge & Co Ltd [1915] UKHL 1, [1915] AC 847 (26 April 1915).
Craies, William Feilden (1911). "Damages" . Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
General damages in England and Wales were increased by 10% for all cases where judgements were given after 1 April 2013, following changes to the options available to personal injury claimants wanting to cover the cost of their litigation.[28]
Lambert, J. (The Hon. Mrs Justice Lambert DBE), Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse - Accountability and Reparations Investigation report: recommendations, letter to Alexandra Merity, Investigation Lawyer, Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse, sent 7 February 2020, accessed 26 September 2022
In England and Wales, exemplary damages are limited to the circumstances set out by Lord Devlin in the leading case of Rookes v. Barnard. They are:
^ Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, 10% Increase in General Damages, accesses 26 September 2022
Damages in tort are awarded generally to place the claimant in the position in which he would have been had the tort not taken place.[16] Damages for breach of contract are generally awarded to place the claimant in the position in which he would have been had the contract not been breached. This can often result in a different measure of damages. In cases where it is possible to frame a claim in either contract or tort, it is necessary to be aware of what gives the best outcome. If the transaction was a "good bargain", contract generally gives a better result for the claimant.
When it is either not possible or not desirable to award the victim in that way, a court may award money damages designed to restore the injured party to the economic position they occupied at the time the contract was entered (known as the "reliance measure")[21][22] or designed to prevent the breaching party from being unjustly enriched ("restitution") (see below).
In addition to damages, the successful party is often entitled to be awarded their reasonable legal costs that they spent during the case. This is the rule in most countries other than the United States.In the United States, a party generally is not entitled to its attorneys' fees or for hardships undergone during trial unless the parties agreed in a contract that attorney's fees should be covered or a specific statute or law permits recovery of legal fees, such as discrimination.[41]
The claimant may also be entitled to any consequential losses. These may include the lost profits that the claimant could have been expected to make in the period whilst the factory was closed and rebuilt.
^ Sanders, Joseph (2008). "Reforming General Damages: A Good Tort Reform". Roger Williams University Law Rev. 13: 115. Retrieved 6 July 2020.
Tabcorp Holdings Ltd v Bowen Investments Pty Ltd [2009] HCA 8, High Court (Australia).
Incidental losses include the costs needed to remedy problems and put things right. The largest element is likely to be the reinstatement of property damage. Take for example a factory which was burnt down by the negligence of a contractor. The claimant would be entitled to the direct costs required to rebuild the factory and replace the damaged machinery.
airSlate Legal Forms, Inc. d/b/a USLegal, Loss of Bargain Law and Legal Definition, accessed 10 December 2022
Commonwealth v Amann Aviation [1991] HCA 54, (1991) 174 CLR 64, High Court (Australia).
Nominal damages are very small damages awarded to show that the loss or harm suffered was technical rather than actual. Perhaps the most famous nominal damages award in modern times has been the $1 verdict against the National Football League (NFL) in the 1986 antitrust suit prosecuted by the United States Football League. Although the verdict was automatically trebled pursuant to antitrust law in the United States, the resulting $3 judgment was regarded as a victory for the NFL. Historically, one of the best known nominal damage awards was the farthing that the jury awarded to James Whistler in his libel suit against John Ruskin. In the English jurisdiction, nominal damages are generally fixed at £5.[31]
^ airSlate Legal Forms, Inc. d/b/a USLegal, Loss of Bargain Law and Legal Definition, accessed 10 December 2022
Heil v Rankin & Another [2000] EWCA Civ 84, Court of Appeal
^ Supreme Court of Texas, Nobility Homes of Texas Inc. v. Shivers, Casetext, published 5 October 1977, accessed 10 December 2022
Contemptuous damages are a form of damage award available in some jurisdictions. They are similar to nominal damages awards, as they are given when the plaintiff's suit is trivial, used only to settle a point of honour or law.[35] Awards are usually of the smallest amount, usually 1 cent or similar. The key distinction is that in jurisdictions that follow the loser-pays for attorney fees, the claimant in a contemptuous damages case may be required to pay their own attorney fees.[36]
Cilia, Fiona (12 November 2010). "Quantifying Damages for Lucrum Cessans in Tor". Journal of Civil Law Studies. 4 (2): 341.
When a personal injury claim is settled either in court or out of court, the most common way the compensation payment is made is by a lump sum award in full and final settlement of the claim. Once accepted there can be no further award for compensation at a later time unless the claim is settled by provisional damages often found in industrial injury claims such as asbestos related injuries.
"The Conqueror, 166 US 110, 17 S. Ct. 510, 41 L. Ed. 937 (1897)"
Black, Stephen (2011). "A Capital Gains Anomaly: Commissioner v. Banks and the Proceeds from Lawsuits". St. Mary's Law Journal. 43: 113. SSRN 1858776.
You may improve this section, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new section, as appropriate.
Supreme Court of Texas, Nobility Homes of Texas Inc. v. Shivers, Casetext, published 5 October 1977, accessed 10 December 2022
^ "Contemptuous damages". Oxford Reference. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, 10% Increase in General Damages, accesses 26 September 2022
i) Whether the clause is 'extravagant, out of all proportion, exorbitant or unconscionable'[24]
McBride, Bagshaw (2018). Tort Law (6 ed.). Pearson. p. 784.
this court has not merely the power, but a positive duty, to monitor, and where appropriate to alter, the guideline rates for general damages in personal injury actions.[27]
Brinig, Brian P., JD, CPA (2011). Finance & Accounting for Lawyers. Portland, OR: BV Resources, LLC. p. 200. ISBN 978-1-935081-71-5.
On a breach of contract by a defendant, a court generally awards the sum that would restore the injured party to the economic position they expected from performance of the promise or promises (known as an "expectation measure" or "benefit-of-the-bargain" measure of damages). This rule, however, has attracted increasing scrutiny from Australian courts and legal commentators.[17][18][19] A judge arrives compensatory number by considering both the type of contract, and the loss incurred.[20]
Find sources: "Damages" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ Doyle, S; Wright, D (2001). "Restitutionary damages - the unnecessary remedy". Melbourne University Law Review. (2001) 25(1) Melbourne University Law Review 1.
Special damages can include direct losses (such as amounts the claimant had to spend to try to mitigate damages)[15] and consequential or economic losses resulting from lost profits in a business.
^ Cilia, Fiona (12 November 2010). "Quantifying Damages for Lucrum Cessans in Tor". Journal of Civil Law Studies. 4 (2): 341.
Cooter, Robert; Eisenberg, Melvin A. (1985). "Damages for Breach of Contract". California Law Review. 73 (5): 1432. doi:10.2307/3480408. JSTOR 3480408. Retrieved 6 July 2020.
Recovery of damages by a plaintiff in lawsuit is subject to the legal principle that damages must be proximately caused by the wrongful conduct of the defendant. This is known as the principle of proximate cause. This principle governs the recovery of all compensatory damages, whether the underlying claim is based on contract, tort, or both.[5]Damages are likely to be limited to those reasonably foreseeable by the defendant. If a defendant could not reasonably have foreseen that someone might be hurt by their actions, there may be no liability.
Many times a party that has been wronged but is not able to prove significant damages will sue for nominal damages. This is particularly common in cases involving alleged violations of constitutional rights, such as freedom of speech. Until 2021, in the United States, there was a circuit split as to whether nominal damages may be used if a constitutional violation had occurred but has since been rendered moot.[32] The Supreme Court decided 8–1 in the 2021 case Uzuegbunam v. Preczewski that nominal damages are appropriate means to redress violated rights otherwise now rendered moot.[33][34]
Liptak, Adam (January 12, 2021). "Citing Taylor Swift, Supreme Court Seems Set to Back Nominal Damages Suits". The New York Times. Retrieved January 12, 2021.
^ Winterton, David (2014). "Clark v Macourt: Defective Sperm and Performance Substitutes in the High Court of Australia". Melbourne University Law Review. (2014) 38(2) Melbourne University Law Review 755.
Oliphant, Ken; Lunney, Mark (2008). Tort Law: Text and Materials. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. p. 865. ISBN 978-0199211364.
"Contemptuous damages". Oxford Reference. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
^ Goldberg, John C.P. (2005). "Two Conceptions of Tort Damages: Fair v. Full Compensation". DePaul Law Review. 55: 435. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
Traditionally, the court awarded the smallest coin in the Realm, which in England was one farthing, 1/960 of a pound before decimalisation in the 1970s.Court costs are not awarded.[37]
^ McRae v Commonwealth Disposals Commission [1951] HCA 79, (1951) 84 CLR 377, High Court (Australia).
^ Bartels, Natalia M.; Madden, M. Stuart (2001). "A Comparative Analysis of United States and Colombian Tort Law: Duty, Breach, and Damages". Pace International Law Review. 13: 59. Retrieved 6 July 2020.
^ Australian Competition & Consumer Commission v Esanda Finance Corporation Ltd [2003] FCA 1225 (7 November 2003), Federal Court (Australia).
Delict (term used for torts in some civil and mixed legal systems)
Smith New Court Securities Ltd v Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) Ltd
Koziol, Helmut; Wilcox, Vanessa (2011). 3709109647. Springer Vienna. ISBN 978-3709109649. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
This page was last edited on 22 February 2023, at 05:27 (UTC).
^ Beaman, Richard (2010-09-22). "Loss of Amenity". Douglas Wemyss Solicitors. Leicester. Archived from the original on 2010-11-15.
The guidance which solicitors will take into account to help quantify general damages are:
Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Actual Damages". Wex. Cornell Law School. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
^ Liptak, Adam (January 12, 2021). "Citing Taylor Swift, Supreme Court Seems Set to Back Nominal Damages Suits". The New York Times. Retrieved January 12, 2021.
"A Comparative Analysis of United States and Colombian Tort Law: Duty, Breach, and Damages"
"Palmer v. Connecticut Railway & Lighting Co., 311 US 544, 61 S. Ct. 379, 85 L. Ed. 336 (1941)"
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Damages" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
In certain areas of the law another head of damages has long been available, whereby the defendant is made to give up the profits made through the civil wrong in restitution. Doyle and Wright define restitutionary damages as being a monetary remedy that is measured according to the defendant's gain rather than the plaintiff's loss.[40] The plaintiff thereby gains damages which are not measured by reference to any loss sustained. In some areas of the law this heading of damages is uncontroversial; most particularly intellectual property rights and breach of fiduciary relationship.
It may be useful for the lawyers, the plaintiff and/or the defendant to employ forensic accountants or someone trained in the relevant field of economics to give evidence on the value of the loss. In this case, they may be called upon to give opinion evidence as an expert witness.
^ Brinig, Brian P., JD, CPA (2011). Finance & Accounting for Lawyers. Portland, OR: BV Resources, LLC. p. 200. ISBN 978-1-935081-71-5.
"Come for the sex toys. Stay for the newly created circuit split on mootness"
^ England and Wales High Court (Chancery Division), Murfin v Campbell (2011) EWHC 1475 (Ch), paragraphs 8, 12, delivered 22 June 2011, accessed 27 November 2022
This rule does not usually apply to intentional torts (for example, tort of deceit), and also has stunted applicability to the quantum in negligence where the maxim 'Intended consequences are never too remote' applies: 'never' is inaccurate here but resorts to unforeseeable direct and natural consequences of an act.
England and Wales High Court (Chancery Division), Murfin v Campbell (2011) EWHC 1475 (Ch), paragraphs 8, 12, delivered 22 June 2011, accessed 27 November 2022
6Punitive damages (non-compensatory)											Toggle Punitive damages (non-compensatory) subsection																					6.1Aggravated damages
Winterton, David (2014). "Clark v Macourt: Defective Sperm and Performance Substitutes in the High Court of Australia". Melbourne University Law Review. (2014) 38(2) Melbourne University Law Review 755.
Compensatory damages are further categorized into special damages, which are economic losses such as loss of earnings, property damage and medical expenses, and general damages, which are non-economic damages such as pain and suffering and emotional distress. Rather than being compensatory,[3] at common law damages may instead be nominal, contemptuous or exemplary.[4]
^ Behand, Nadine (2009). How To Run Your Own Court Case. Sydney: Redfern Legal Centre. p. 145. ISBN 978-1-921410-83-3.
See, e.g., the U.S. Supreme Court cases of "The Conqueror, 166 US 110, 17 S. Ct. 510, 41 L. Ed. 937 (1897)". Google Scholar. Retrieved 19 September 2017. and "Palmer v. Connecticut Railway & Lighting Co., 311 US 544, 61 S. Ct. 379, 85 L. Ed. 336 (1941)". Google Scholar. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse - Accountability and Reparations Investigation report: recommendations
^ Simmons v. Castle, Case No: A3/2011/1846, paragraph 12, published 26 July 2012, accessed 17 July 2022
In personal injury claims, damages for compensation are quantified by reference to the severity of the injuries sustained (see below general damages for more details). In non-personal injury claims, for instance, a claim for professional negligence against solicitors, the measure of damages will be assessed by the loss suffered by the client due to the negligent act or omission by the solicitor giving rise to the loss. The loss must be reasonably foreseeable and not too remote. Financial losses are usually simple to quantify but in complex cases which involve loss of pension entitlements and future loss projections, the instructing solicitor will usually employ a specialist expert actuary or accountant to assist with the quantification of the loss.
^ Tabcorp Holdings Ltd v Bowen Investments Pty Ltd [2009] HCA 8, High Court (Australia).
"Supreme Court sides with Christian students silenced on Georgia campus"
Doyle, S; Wright, D (2001). "Restitutionary damages - the unnecessary remedy". Melbourne University Law Review. (2001) 25(1) Melbourne University Law Review 1.
Liability for payment of an award of damages is established when the claimant proves, on the balance of probabilities, that a defendant's wrongful act caused a tangible, harm, loss or injury to the plaintiff. Once that threshold is met, the plaintiff is entitled to some amount of recovery for that loss or injury. No recovery is not an option. The court must then assess the amount of compensation attributable to the harmful acts of the defendant.[9] The amount of damages a plaintiff would recover is usually measured on a "loss of bargain" basis, also known as expectation loss,[10] or "economic loss". This concept reflects the difference between "the value of what has been received and its value as represented".[11]
^ "Punitive Damages". Wex. Cornell Law School. Retrieved 19 September 2017.
3.2Special damages																								3.2.1Incidental and consequential losses																											3.2.2Breach of contract duty - (ex contract)																											3.2.3Breach of tort duty - (ex delicto)
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Duke, Jeannie Paterson, Andrew Robertson, Arlen (2012). Contract : cases and materials (12th ed.). Rozelle, N.S.W.: Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited. ISBN 9780455229461.
In an accord contract it is typical that the consideration supplied is less than bargained for in the original contract. In accord contracts that require an amount of consideration that is less than the original, the consideration must be of a different type, e.g. instead of money, debtor offers a car or a boat.
Find sources: "Accord and satisfaction" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
3 Historically restricted in common law jurisdictions but generally accepted elsewhere; availability varies between contemporary common law jurisdictions
Duty of good faith (also implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing or duty to negotiate in good faith)7Contract A and Contract B6
D & C Builders Ltd v Rees - where the creditor accepted the offer under duress
Jacob & Young, Inc. v. Kent, 230 N.Y. 239, (N.Y. App. 1921).
Accord and satisfaction is a settlement of an unliquidated debt. For example, a builder is contracted to build a homeowner a garage for $35,000. The contract called for $17,500 prior to starting construction, to disburse $10,000 during various stages of construction, and to make a final payment of $7,500 at completion. At completion, the homeowner complained about inferior work quality and refused to make the final payment. After a mutual settlement agreement, the builder accepted $4,000 as full payment. Thereby, a new contract was formed by offer, acceptance, and consideration. The consideration is that for a $3,500 savings, the homeowner gives up that which he is entitled, a well-constructed garage. The builder gives up his right to full price to avoid suit for inferior performance. When accord and satisfaction has occurred, the homeowner has given up his right to sue for inferior performance, and the builder has given up his right to sue for the full $7,500 due under the original contract.
The accord agreement must be transacted on a new agreement. It must therefore have the essential terms of a contract, (parties, subject matter, time for performance, and consideration). If there is a breach of the accord there will be no "satisfaction" which will give rise to a breach of accord. In this instance the non-offending party has the right to sue under either the original contract or the accord agreement.
Accord and satisfaction is a contract law concept about the purchase of the release from a debt obligation. It is one of the methods by which parties to a contract may terminate their agreement. The release is completed by the transfer of valuable consideration that must not be the actual performance of the obligation itself.[1] The accord is the agreement to discharge the obligation and the satisfaction is the legal "consideration" which binds the parties to the agreement. A valid accord does not discharge the prior contract; instead it suspends the right to enforce it in accordance with the terms of the accord contract, in which satisfaction, or performance of the contract will discharge both contracts (the original and the accord). If the creditor breaches the accord, then the debtor will be able to bring up the existence of the accord in order to enjoin any action against him.
Another example would be where a lender agrees to lend $100,000 at 5.0% interest for 30 years, and at the closing the loan documents are all drawn up for a loan with a 6.0% interest rate.If the lender agrees to reduce the closing costs by an extra $1000 and the borrowers agree, then there has been an accord and satisfaction.If the borrowers later sue for breach of contract, the settlement (offer and acceptance of the $1000) constitutes an accord and satisfaction and is a valid defense to the borrower's lawsuit.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Accord and satisfaction" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
7 Specific to civil law jurisdictions, the American Uniform Commercial Code, and Canadian jurisprudence in both Québec and the common law provinces pertaining to contractual and pre-contractual negotiation
This page was last edited on 27 July 2022, at 10:36 (UTC).
Duty of honest contractual performance (or doctrine of abuse of rights)6
5 Explicitly rejected by the UNIDROIT Principles of International Commercial Contracts
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Duke, Jeannie Paterson, Andrew Robertson, Arlen (2012). Contract : cases and materials (12th ed.). Rozelle, N.S.W.: Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited. ISBN 9780455229461.
If a person is sued over an alleged debt, that person bears the burden of proving the affirmative defense of accord and satisfaction.
Foakes v Beer - an old leading case on the exception of accord and satisfaction where the debt was not in dispute
Pinnel's Case - where the payment of a lesser amount was to be paid before the debt fell due
6 Specific to Canadian contract law both in Québec and in the country's common law provinces
4 Specific to the German Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch and other civil codes based on the pandectist tradition
Hirachand Punumchand v Temple - where the offeree was a 3rd party (the debtor's father)
it is the law intended by the parties when the contract was made which is usually evidenced by an express choice of law clause; or
Until the middle of the 19th century, the courts applied the lex loci contractus or the law of the place where the contract was made to decide whether the given contract was valid. The apparent advantage of this approach was that the rule was easy to apply with certain and predictable outcomes. Unfortunately, it was also open to abuse, e.g. the place could be selected fraudulently to validate an otherwise invalid contract; it might lead to the application of laws with no real connection with the transaction itself, say, because the parties signed the agreement while on holiday; or it might have been difficult to decide where the contract was made, e.g. because it was negotiated and signed on a railway journey through several states.
the format of the documents, e.g. if a form is only found in one relevant country, this suggests that the parties intended the law of that country to be the proper law;
the currency in which any payment is to be made;
if there is no express or implied choice, it is the law which has the closest and most real connection to the bargain made by the parties.
the place nominated for any arbitration proceedings in the event of a dispute (the lex loci arbitri);
Some legal systems provide that a contract may be governed by more than one law.This concept is referred to as dépeçage.Article 3(1) of the Rome Convention on the law applicable to contractual obligations expressly recognises dépeçage in contracting states.
This page was last edited on 19 February 2023, at 02:54 (UTC).
It is only fair to admit that the task of imputing an intention to the parties in the third situation presents the courts with another opportunity for uncertainty and arbitrariness, but this overall approach is nevertheless felt to be the lesser of the available evils.
When the parties express a clear intention in a choice-of-law clause, there is a rebuttable presumption that this is the proper law because it reflects the parties' freedom of contract and it produces certainty of outcome.[citation needed] It can only be rebutted when the choice is not bona fide, it produces illegality, or it breaches public policy.[citation needed] For example, the parties may have selected the particular law to evade the operation of otherwise mandatory provisions of the law which has the closest connection with the contract.[citation needed] The parties are not free to put themselves above the law and, in such cases, it will be for the parties to prove that there is a valid reason for selecting that law other than evasion.[citation needed]
it is imputed by the court because either the parties incorporated actual legal terminology or provisions specific to one legal system, or because the contract would only be valid under one of the potentially relevant systems; or
any pattern of dealing established in previous transactions involving the same parties; and
In English law, the Contracts (Applicable Law) Act 1990 formally incorporates the Convention on the Law Applicable to Contractual Obligations the "Rome Convention") opened for signature in Rome on June 19, 1980, and signed by the United Kingdom on December 7, 1981; the Convention on the Accession of the Hellenic Republic to the Rome Convention (the "Luxembourg Convention") signed by the United Kingdom in Luxembourg on April 10, 1984; and the first Protocol on the Interpretation of the Rome Convention by the European Court (the "Brussels Protocol") signed by the United Kingdom in Brussels on December 19, 1988.
The proper law of the contract is the main system of law applied to decide the validity of most aspects to the contract including its formation,validity, interpretation, and performance. This does not deny the power of the parties to agree that different aspects of the contract shall be governed by different systems of law. But, in the absence of such express terms, the court will not divide the proper law unless there are unusually compelling circumstances. And note the general rule of the lex fori which applies the provisions of the proper law as it is when the contract is to be performed and not as it was when the contract was made.
Many states have policies which protect the young and inexperienced by insulating them from liability even though they may have voluntarily committed themselves to unwise contracts. The age at which children achieve full contractual capacity varies from state to state but the principle is always the same. Infants are not bound by many otherwise valid contracts, and their intention is irrelevant because of the legal incapacity imposed on them by the state of the domicile (the lex domicilii) or nationality (the lex patriae). This recognises a set of social values that requires exculpation even though there is relevant action and consent freely given.
liability in which the law holds individuals responsible for the consequences of their actions, and
In many states, fundamental mistakes, misrepresentations and similar defects may make a contract void ab initio, i.e. the defect is so serious that it prevents an agreement from ever coming into being. If this happens, every term in the contract including the express selection of the proper law, would be unenforceable. This raises the question of whether the lex fori should operate a policy of saving the validity of contracts wherever possible. Suppose that a contract would be valid under many potentially relevant laws but not under the putative proper law, and that, until problems arose, the parties have acted in good faith on the assumption that they will be bound by the agreement, some courts might be tempted to ignore the apparent proper law and choose another that would give effect to the parties general contractual intentions.
where any insurance companies or relevant third parties are located.
the place where the contract is made (which may not be obvious where negotiations were concluded by letter, fax or e-mail);
In the conflict of laws, the validity and effect of a contract with one or more foreign law elements will be decided by reference to the so-called "proper law" of the contract.
3Problems											Toggle Problems subsection																					3.1Incapacity through age																											3.2Mistake, misrepresentation, etc.
2Proper law											Toggle Proper law subsection																					2.1Express selection																											2.2Implied selection																											2.3Closest and most real connection																											2.4Dépeçage
Equally, states have an interest in protecting the normal flow of trade within their borders. If businesses had constantly to verify the nationality or domicile of their customers and their ages, this might slow down business and, potentially, infringe privacy legislation. Hence, conflicts of public policy can emerge which complicate the choice of law decision and invite forum shopping, i.e. traders will always seek to sue infants with whom they have contracts in those states which accord priority to commercial interests, while children will seek the avoidance of liability in the courts which protect their interests. This would be achieved during the characterisation stage by classifying the issue as status and its incidents rather than contract because a party's status and lack of capacity would be in rem.
When the parties have not used express words, their intention may be inferred from the terms and nature of the contract, and from the general circumstances of the case. For example, a term granting the courts of a particular state exclusive jurisdiction over the contract would imply that the lex fori is to be the proper law (see forum selection clause).
The parties to a valid contract are bound to do what they have promised. So, to be consistent, the Doctrine of Proper Law examines the parties' intention as to which law is to govern the contract. The claimed advantage of this approach is that it satisfies more abstract considerations of justice if the parties are bound by the law they have chosen. But it raises the question of whether the test is to be subjective, i.e. the law actually intended by the parties, or objective, i.e. the law will impute the intention which reasonable men in their position would probably have had. It cannot safely be assumed that the parties did actually consider which of the several possible laws might be applied when they were negotiating the contract. Hence, although the courts would prefer the subjective approach because this gives effect the parties' own wishes, the objective test has gained in importance. So the proper law test today is three-stage:
Find sources: "Conflict of contract laws" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Conflict of contract laws" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
exculpability in which fundamental social policies exclude or diminish the liability that actors would have incurred in different circumstances.
To avoid these difficulties, some courts proposed applying the lex loci solutionis or the law of the place of performance of the contract. This produced difficulties in cases where the contract required each party to perform its obligations in a different country, or where the place of performance was dictated by later circumstances. However, as the public policies driven by the theory of freedom of contract evolved, the Doctrine of Proper Law emerged.
States approach the issue of intentionality from two related, but distinct, conceptual directions:
In default, the court has to impute an intention by asking, as just and reasonable persons, which law the parties ought to, or would, have intended to nominate if they had thought about it when they were making the contract. In arriving at its decision, the court uses a list of connecting factors, i.e. facts which have an unambiguous geographical connection, and whichever law scores the most hits on a league table created from the list will be considered the proper law. The current list of factors includes the following:
There are many problems affecting this area of law, but two of the most interesting are:
