
Please help improve it to make it understandable to non-experts, without removing the technical details.
Generally, PRO is the subject in the underlying structure of an embedded phrase be it subject-controlled, object-controlled, or arbitrarily-controlled.[3] A subject can show up in a non-overt form in infinitives as PRO, but a preposed object cannot.[6] This diagnostic shows that an XP is a subject if it can be PRO.[3][5][4] To illustrate, Icelandic shows subject-controlled PRO with a nominative DP:
Zaenen, Annie, Joan Maling, & Höskuldur Þráinsson (1985). Case and grammatical functions: The Icelandic passive. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 3: 441-483.
A subject can pass through both [SPEC, Persp] and [SPEC, B], or only [SPEC, B]If the head B agrees with the QS, they merge. If B and the QS merge successfully, the same merging occurs if head Persp agrees with the QS.
Yoon, James (2004). Non-nominative (major) subjects and cases tacking in Korean. In Non-nominative subjects, ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 2, 265-314. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Please help clarify the section. There might be a discussion about this on the talk page.
Demirok, Omar (2013). Agree as a unidirectional operation: evidence from Laz. Master's thesis. Boğaziçi University.
In Standard English, a sentence like "*Me like him" is ungrammatical because the subject is ordinarily in the nominative case. In many or most nominative–accusative languages, this rule is inflexible: the subject is indeed in the nominative case, and almost all treat the subjects of all verbs the same. Icelandic was argued to be the only modern language with quirky subjects,[4] but other studies investigating languages likeFaroese,[5][7][6][8] German,[5] Hindi,[9] Basque,[10] Laz,[11] Gujarati,[12] Hungarian,[13] Kannada,[14] Korean,[15] Malayalam,[16] Marathi,[17] Russian,[18][19][20] Spanish,[21][22][23] and Telugu[24] show that they also possess quirky subjects.
In Icelandic, some verbs (e.g., telja, álíta) can have their complement in the ‘Exceptional Case Marking’ (ECM), also known as the ‘Accusativus-cum-Infinitivo’ (AcI) or ‘Subject-to-Object Raising’ (SOR) construction. It has been proposed that some non-subject (e.g. a preposed object) cannot be so embedded.[6] The ECM construction occurs when a sentence of the form subject-finite verb-X is selected by verbs such as telja, álíta as a CP complement (embedded clause). The nominative subject shows up in the accusative (or else in the dative or genitive) in ECM construction and the verb is in the infinitive.
Furthermore, quirky subjects do not retain its case under raising in Faroese. In the following example, the subject Jógvan changes from the dative case to the accusative case after it is raised:
^ González, Nora (1988). Object and raising in Spanish. New York: Garland.
A reduced relative may only appear in as a subject position in a reduced relative clause. This test shows that a constituent is a subject if it can be relativized in a reduced relative clause.
Many linguists, especially from various persuasions of the broad school of cognitive linguistics, do not use the term "quirky subjects" since the term is biased towards languages of nominative–accusative type. Often, "quirky subjects" are semantically motivated by the predicates of their clauses. Dative-subjects, for example, quite often correspond with predicates indicating sensory, cognitive, or experiential states across a large number of languages. In some cases, this can be seen as evidence for the influence of active–stative typology.
Þráinsson, Höskuldur (2007). The syntax of Icelandic. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
^ Fischer, Susann (2004). "The diachronic relationship between quirky subjects and stylistic fronting".In Peri Bhaskararao; Karumuri V. Subbarao (eds.). Non-nominative Subjects. John Benjamins Publishing Company. pp. 193–212. ISBN 90-272-2970-8.
^ Schoorlemmer, Maaike (1994). Dative subjects in Russian. In Formal approaches to Slavic linguistics: The Ann Arbor meeting, ed. Jindřich Toman, 129-172. Ann Arbor, MI: Michigan Slavic Publications.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Rögnvaldsson, Eiríkur (1991). "Quirky Subjects in Old Icelandic" (PDF).In Halldór Ármann Sigurðsson (ed.). Papers from the Twelfth Scandinavian Conference of Linguistics. pp. 369–378.
If a quirky subject passes PRO control, then it will also pass SOA binding.
Álfurinni stal ostinum og ei bauð bræðrum sínum í mat
Fischer, Susann (2004). "The diachronic relationship between quirky subjects and stylistic fronting".In Peri Bhaskararao; Karumuri V. Subbarao (eds.). Non-nominative Subjects. John Benjamins Publishing Company. pp. 193–212. ISBN 90-272-2970-8.
Subbarao, Karumuri Venkata and Bhaskararao, Peri (2004). Non-nominative subjects in Telugu. In Non-nominative subjects, ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 2, 161-196. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Faarlund, Jan T. (2001). "The notion of oblique subject and its status in the history of Icelandic".In Jan T. Faarlund (ed.). Grammatical relations in change. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. pp. 99–135. ISBN 9789027298041.
Þráinsson, Höskuldur, Hjalmar P. Petersen, Jógvaní Lon Jacobsen, & Zakaris Svabo Hansen (2003). Faroese: An overview and reference grammar. Tórshavn: Føroya Fróðskaparfelag.
In height conjecture analysis, a quirky subject gains the properties of an FP whenever it lands in the SPEC of that FP.
Unlike Icelandic, Faroese does not possess passive quirky subjects. Instead, passivized direct objects appear in the nominative:
Note: The object ostinum cannot be embedded in ECM construction. The following sentence is ungrammatical:
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann (2002). To be an oblique subject: Russian vs. Icelandic. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 20: 691-724.
Mistry, P.J (2004). Subjecthood of non-nominatives in Gujarati. In Non-nominative subjects, ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 2, 1–13. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
^ Masullo, Pascual J (1993). Two types of quirky subjects: Spanish versus Icelandic. In Proceedings of the 23rd Meeting of the North East Linguistic Society (NELS 23), ed. Amy J. Schafer, 303-317. Amherst, MA: GLSA.
Fanselow, Gisbert (2002). "Quirky 'subjects' and other specifiers".In Dieter Wunderlich; Ingrid Kaufmann; Barbara Stiebels (eds.). More Than Words: A Festschrift for Dieter Wunderlich. Berlin: Akademie Verlag. pp. 227–250. ISBN 3-05-003759-8.
1Subjecthood tests											Toggle Subjecthood tests subsection																					1.1Subject-oriented anaphora binding																											1.2PRO control																											1.3Reduced relatives																											1.4Subject-to-object raising																											1.5Conjunction reduction
The arc pair grammar (multistratal analysis) was proposed to explain why quirky subjects overwrite the lexical in languages such as Faroese. This analysis suggests that quirky subjects are the result of inversion: an initial subject is demoted to an indirect object, and subject properties are not tied to final subjects but can make reference to subjects at a distinct strata.[5]
^ a b c Zaenen, Annie, Joan Maling, & Höskuldur Þráinsson (1985). Case and grammatical functions: The Icelandic passive. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 3: 441-483.
^ Subbarao, Karumuri Venkata and Bhaskararao, Peri (2004). Non-nominative subjects in Telugu. In Non-nominative subjects, ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 2, 161-196. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
A interpretation of quirky subjects and related phenomena in Spanish
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m Pankau, Andreas (2016). Quirky subjects in Icelandic, Faroese, and German: a relational account. Presentation at the Joint 2016 Conference on HPSG and LFG, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.
In German, the dative DP subject Dem Fritz binds the anaphor sich:
^ a b c d Demirok, Omar (2013). Agree as a unidirectional operation: evidence from Laz. Master's thesis. Boğaziçi University.
Masullo, Pascual J (1993). Two types of quirky subjects: Spanish versus Icelandic. In Proceedings of the 23rd Meeting of the North East Linguistic Society (NELS 23), ed. Amy J. Schafer, 303-317. Amherst, MA: GLSA.
González, Nora (1988). Object and raising in Spanish. New York: Garland.
Icelandic quirky subjects are not able to be relativized on:
^ Yoon, James (2004). Non-nominative (major) subjects and cases tacking in Korean. In Non-nominative subjects, ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 2, 265-314. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
^ Rákosi, György (2006). Dative experiencer predicates in Hungarian. Utrecht: LOT.
^ a b c Faarlund, Jan T. (2001). "The notion of oblique subject and its status in the history of Icelandic".In Jan T. Faarlund (ed.). Grammatical relations in change. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. pp. 99–135. ISBN 9789027298041.
Bhatt, Rajesh (2003). Experiencer subjects. Handout from MIT course “Structure of the Modern Indo-Aryan Languages”.
Moore, John, & David Perlmutter (2000). What does it take to be a dative subject? Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 18: 373-416.
Some anaphors only allow subjects to be their antecedents when bound. This is also called reflexivization.[26][5] Subject-oriented anaphoras (SOA) are a special subclass of anaphora that must have subjects as their antecedents. This test shows that an XP is a subject if it binds to a subject-oriented anaphora.[3] In Icelandic, this is shown below where the dative pronoun subject Honum is only grammatical when binding the anaphor sínum:
Gutiérrez-Bravo, Rodrigo (2006). A interpretation of quirky subjects and related phenomena in Spanish. In New perspectives in Romance linguistics, ed. Chiyo Nishida & Jean-Pierre Y. Montreuil, 127-142. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Generally, nominative subjects satisfy tests that prove their "subject" status. Quirky subjects were also found to pass these subjecthood tests.
In superficially similar constructions of the type seen in Spanish me gusta "I like", the analogous part of speech (in this case me) is not a true syntactical subject.[citation needed] "Me" is instead the object of the verb "gusta" which has a meaning closer to "please", thus, "me gusta" could be translated as "(he/she/it) pleases me" or "I am pleased by [x]."
^ Jónsson, Jóhannes G. (2003). "Not so quirky: On subject case in Icelandic".In Ellen Brandner; Heike Zinsmeister (eds.). New Perspectives on Case Theory. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications. pp. 127–163.
This page was last edited on 7 March 2023, at 18:35 (UTC).
^ a b c d e f g h i j k
^ Sigurdsson, Halldor (1992). "The case of quirky subjects" (PDF).In Halldór Ármann Sigurðsson (ed.). (Working Papers in Scandinavian Syntax; Vol. 49). Department of Scandinavian Languages, Lund University.
The same behavior is seen in quirky subjects in Basque where the dative subject Joni binds the anaphor bere burua:
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m
In the standard analysis, quirky subjects are treated as regular subjects that are assigned lexical or idiosyncratic cases. Dative-marked nominals are often analyzed as subjects because they pass most subjecthood tests. By passing these tests, quirky subjects seem to bear the lexical case (cannot be overwritten), while non-quirky subjects bear the structural case (can be overwritten). This approach is most often used to analyze Icelandic,[3] as all of its quirky subjects bear the lexical case and cannot be overwritten. However, the standard analysis does not sufficiently explain why lexical cases are overwritten in several languages, such as Faroese and Imbabura Quechua.[5]
Jónsson, Jóhannes G. (2003). "Not so quirky: On subject case in Icelandic".In Ellen Brandner; Heike Zinsmeister (eds.). New Perspectives on Case Theory. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications. pp. 127–163.
Quirky subjects are analyzed to determine what case a subject may bear. There are many approaches, though the two most prominent are the standard Analysis and the Height Conjecture Analysis.[5]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Poole, Ethan (2014). Deconstructing quirky subjects. University of Massachusetts Amherst. North East Linguistic Society 45.
It has been observed cross-linguistically that the subject of a sentence often has a nominative case. However, this one-to-one relationship between case and grammatical relations (subjecthood) is highly debatable.[6][3] Some argue that nominative case marking and controlling verb agreement are not unique properties of subjects.[6] One evidence in support of this proposal is the observation that nominative can also mark left-dislocated NPs, appellatives and some objects in the active in Icelandic. In addition, agreeing predicate NPs can also be marked nominative case:[6]
^ Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann (2002). To be an oblique subject: Russian vs. Icelandic. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 20: 691-724.
TP is split into PerspP and BPT is split into 2 heads Persp then B; the former to bear PRO and the latter to bind to SOAThe heads are marked [⋆nom⋆] (nominative DPs only), [⋆dep⋆] (dependant-case and nominative DPs), and [⋆d⋆] (any DP).
"The notion of oblique subject and its status in the history of Icelandic"
Wali, Kashi (2004). Non-nominative subjects in Marathi. In Non-nominative subjects, ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 2, 223-252. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
if a quirky subject passes the reduced relative clause test, it will also pass PRO control and subject-oriented anaphora (SOA) binding, and
Cross-linguistically, all quirky subjects pass SOA binding test. The QSH governs quirky subjects in Icelandic, Hindi, German, Basque, Laz, Faroese, Gujarati, Hungarian, Kannada, Korean, Malayalam, Marathi, Russian, Spanish, and Telugu.[3]
3Proposed analyses											Toggle Proposed analyses subsection																					3.1Standard analysis																											3.2Height conjecture
Jónsson, Jóhannes Gísli (2009). "Convert nominative and dative subjects in Faroese". Nordlyd. 37: 99. doi:10.7557/12.2025.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Rögnvaldsson, Eiríkur (1991). "Quirky Subjects in Old Icelandic" (PDF).In Halldór Ármann Sigurðsson (ed.). Papers from the Twelfth Scandinavian Conference of Linguistics. pp. 369–378.
Amritavalli,R (2004). Experiencer datives in Kannada. In Non-nominative subjects, ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 1, 1-24. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Pankau, Andreas (2016). Quirky subjects in Icelandic, Faroese, and German: a relational account. Presentation at the Joint 2016 Conference on HPSG and LFG, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.
The conjunction reduction test is also known as the subject ellipsis test.[6] In coordinated structures, the subject of the second conjunct can be left out if it is coreferential (i.e., coindexed) with the subject in the first conjunct but not if it is coreferential with the object:
The raising of PRO to [SPEC, Persp] determines whether the quirky can occur in complement during control. This is according to the Perspectival Centre Constraint. If the quirky subject lands at [SPEC, Persp], it may be relativized on into a reduced relative clause.[3]
Jayaseelan, K.A (2004). The possessor-experiencer dative in Malayalam. In Non-nominative subjects , ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 1, 227-244. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
'The child wants to love the dogs, but s/he fears' Unknown glossing abbreviation(s) (help);
^ Amritavalli,R (2004). Experiencer datives in Kannada. In Non-nominative subjects, ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 1, 1-24. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
I met the elf and he invited me to dinner.
In linguistics, quirky subjects (also called oblique subjects) are a phenomenon where certain verbs specify that their subjects are to be in a case other than the nominative.[1][2] These non-nominative subjects are determiner phrases that pass subjecthood tests such as subject-oriented anaphora binding, PRO control, reduced relative clause, conjunction reduction,[3] subject-to-subject raising, and subject-to-object raising.[4][5]
Schoorlemmer, Maaike (1994). Dative subjects in Russian. In Formal approaches to Slavic linguistics: The Ann Arbor meeting, ed. Jindřich Toman, 129-172. Ann Arbor, MI: Michigan Slavic Publications.
^ Wali, Kashi (2004). Non-nominative subjects in Marathi. In Non-nominative subjects, ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 2, 223-252. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
^ Rezac, M. and Fernández, B. (2012). "Dative displacement in Basque". In Variation in datives: A microcomparative perspective, ed. Beatriz Fernández and Ricardo Etxepare, Chapter 9. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.
T is split into 2 heads Persp then B; the former to bear PRO and the latter to bind to SOA
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Þráinsson, Höskuldur (2007). The syntax of Icelandic. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
The Quirky Subject Hierarchy (QSH) exists to governs non-nominative subjects based on three subjecthood tests.[3]
Quirky subjects can also occur when verbs taking a dative or genitive argument occur in the passive.[27]
Poole, Ethan (2014). Deconstructing quirky subjects. University of Massachusetts Amherst. North East Linguistic Society 45.
Quirky subjects in Hindi also pass this test where the dative subject मुझे (mujhe) binds the anaphor (the reflexive possessive pronoun) अपना (apnā):
In Icelandic, verbs can require a non-nominative subject. The following examples show an accusative subject and a dative subject, respectively.
The elf stole the cheese and (he) invited his brothers to dinner.
Rákosi, György (2006). Dative experiencer predicates in Hungarian. Utrecht: LOT.
If the head B agrees with the QS, they merge. If B and the QS merge successfully, the same merging occurs if head Persp agrees with the QS.
Faroese quirky subjects also pass this diagnostic where the subject Kjartani in the dative binds the anaphor sini:
^ Moore, John, & David Perlmutter (2000). What does it take to be a dative subject? Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 18: 373-416.
^ Jónsson, Jóhannes Gísli (2009). "Convert nominative and dative subjects in Faroese". Nordlyd. 37: 99. doi:10.7557/12.2025.
Sigurdsson, Halldor (1992). "The case of quirky subjects" (PDF).In Halldór Ármann Sigurðsson (ed.). (Working Papers in Scandinavian Syntax; Vol. 49). Department of Scandinavian Languages, Lund University.
The heads are marked [⋆nom⋆] (nominative DPs only), [⋆dep⋆] (dependant-case and nominative DPs), and [⋆d⋆] (any DP).
Rezac, M. and Fernández, B. (2012). "Dative displacement in Basque". In Variation in datives: A microcomparative perspective, ed. Beatriz Fernández and Ricardo Etxepare, Chapter 9. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.
^ Þráinsson, Höskuldur, Hjalmar P. Petersen, Jógvaní Lon Jacobsen, & Zakaris Svabo Hansen (2003). Faroese: An overview and reference grammar. Tórshavn: Føroya Fróðskaparfelag.
^ Mistry, P.J (2004). Subjecthood of non-nominatives in Gujarati. In Non-nominative subjects, ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 2, 1–13. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
^ Jayaseelan, K.A (2004). The possessor-experiencer dative in Malayalam. In Non-nominative subjects , ed. Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao, volume 1, 227-244. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
The class of quirky subjects in Icelandic is a large one, consisting of hundreds of verbs in a number of distinct classes: experiencer verbs like vanta (need/lack), motion verbs like reka (drift), change of state verbs like ysta (curdle), verbs of success/failure like takast (succeed/manage to), verbs of acquisition like áskotnast (acquire/get by luck), and many others.[25]
Quirky subjects in Icelandic, Faroese, and German: a relational account
^ Gutiérrez-Bravo, Rodrigo (2006). A interpretation of quirky subjects and related phenomena in Spanish. In New perspectives in Romance linguistics, ed. Chiyo Nishida & Jean-Pierre Y. Montreuil, 127-142. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Elf-the.NOM stole cheese-the.DAT and e invited brothers his.REFL to dinner
^ a b c Bhatt, Rajesh (2003). Experiencer subjects. Handout from MIT course “Structure of the Modern Indo-Aryan Languages”.
We could not find the above page on our servers.
Alternatively, you can visit the Main Page or read more information about this type of error.
^ These distinctions (anaphora, cataphora, split antecedents, coreferring noun phrases, etc.) are discussed in Jurafsky and Martin (2000:669ff).
When exploring coreference, numerous distinctions can be made, e.g. anaphora, cataphora, split antecedents, coreferring noun phrases, etc.[2] Several of these more specific phenomena are illustrated here:
Pleonastic uses are not considered referential, and so are not part of coreference.[5]
^ For discussions of bound variables, see for instance Portner (2005:102ff.).
Linguists commonly use indices to notate coreference, as in Billi said hei would come. Such expressions are said to be coindexed, indicating that they should be interpreted as coreferential.
^ Li et al. (2009) have demonstrated high accuracy in sorting out pleonastic it, and this success promises to improve the accuracy of coreference resolution overall.
Coindex notation is commonly used for both cases. That is, when two or more expressions are coindexed, it does not signal whether one is dealing with coreference or a bound variable (or as in the last example, whether it depends on interpretation).
For discussions of bound variables, see for instance Portner (2005:102ff.).
Every studenti has received hisi grade. – The pronoun his is an example of a bound variable
In linguistics, coreference, sometimes written co-reference, occurs when two or more expressions refer to the same person or thing; they have the same referent. For example, in Bill said Alice would arrive soon, and she did, the words Alice and she refer to the same person.[1]
Approaches to coreference resolution can broadly be separated into mention-pair, mention-ranking or entity-based algorithms. Mention-pair algorithms involve binary decisions if a pair of two given mentions belong to the same entity. Entity-wide constraints like gender are not considered, which leads to error propagation. For example, the pronouns he or she can both have a high probability of coreference with the teacher, but cannot be coreferent with each other. Mention-ranking algorithms expand on this idea but instead stipulate that one mention can only be coreferent with one (previous) mention. As a result, each previous mention must be given a score and the highest scoring mention (or no mention) is linked. Finally, in entity-based methods mentions are linked based on information of the whole coreference chain instead of individual mentions. The representation of a variable-width chain is more complex and computationally expensive than mention-based methods, which lead to these algorithms being mostly based on neural network architectures.
Cataphora – Use of an expression or word that co-refers with a later, more specific, expression
Anaphora (linguistics) – Use of an expression whose interpretation depends on context
Quantified expressions such as every student and no student are not considered referential. These expressions are grammatically singular but do not pick out single referents in the discourse or real world. Thus, the antecedents to his in these examples are not properly referential, and neither is his. Instead, it is considered a variable that is bound by its antecedent. Its reference varies based upon which of the students in the discourse world is thought of. The existence of bound variables is perhaps more apparent with the following example:
See Jurafsky and Martin (2000:701) for an example of a bound variable like the ones given here.
^ For definitions of coreference, see for instance Crystal (1997:94) and Radford (2004:332).
Coreference is important for binding phenomena in the field of syntax. The theory of binding explores the syntactic relationship that exists between coreferential expressions in sentences and texts.
Word-sense disambiguation – Identification of which sense of a word is being used
^ See Jurafsky and Martin (2000:701) for an example of a bound variable like the ones given here.
When expressions are coreferential, the first to occur is often a full or descriptive form (for example, an entire personal name, perhaps with a title and role), while later occurrences use shorter forms (for example, just a given name, surname, or pronoun). The earlier occurrence is known as the antecedent and the other is called a proform, anaphor, or reference. However, pronouns can sometimes refer forward, as in "When she arrived home, Alice went to sleep." In such cases, the coreference is called cataphoric rather than anaphoric.
Jurafsky, D. and H. Martin 2000. Speech and language processing: An introduction to natural language processing, computational linguistics, and speech recognition. New Delhi, India: Pearson Education.
This sentence is ambiguous. It can mean that Jack likes his grade but everyone else dislikes Jack's grade; or that no one likes their own grade except Jack. In the first meaning, his is coreferential; in the second, it is a bound variable because its reference varies over the set of all students.
In computational linguistics, coreference resolution is a well-studied problem in discourse. To derive the correct interpretation of a text, or even to estimate the relative importance of various mentioned subjects, pronouns and other referring expressions must be connected to the right individuals. Algorithms intended to resolve coreferences commonly look first for the nearest preceding individual that is compatible with the referring expression. For example, she might attach to a preceding expression such as the woman or Anne, but not as probably to Bill. Pronouns such as himself have much stricter constraints. As with many linguistic tasks, there is a tradeoff between precision and recall. Cluster-quality metrics commonly used to evaluate coreference resolution algorithms include the Rand index, the adjusted Rand index, and different mutual information-based methods.
Antecedent – Expression that gives its meaning to a pro-form in grammar
This page was last edited on 16 March 2023, at 22:58 (UTC).
Please help clarify the article. There might be a discussion about this on the talk page.
A particular problem for coreference resolution in English is the pronoun it, which has many uses. It can refer much like he and she, except that it generally refers to inanimate objects (the rules are actually more complex: animals may be any of it, he, or she; ships are traditionally she; hurricanes are usually it despite having gendered names). It can also refer to abstractions rather than beings, e.g. He was paid minimum wage, but didn't seem to mind it. Finally, it also has pleonastic uses, which do not refer to anything specific:
Li, Y., P. Musilek, M. Reformat, and L. Wyard-Scott 2009. Identification of pleonastic it using the web. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 34, 339–389.
These distinctions (anaphora, cataphora, split antecedents, coreferring noun phrases, etc.) are discussed in Jurafsky and Martin (2000:669ff).
Semanticists and logicians sometimes draw a distinction between coreference and what is known as a bound variable.[3] Bound variables occur when the antecedent to the proform is an indefinite quantified expression, e.g.[4][clarification needed]
Radford, A. 2004. English syntax: An introduction. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
No studenti was upset with hisi grade. – The pronoun his is an example of a bound variable
Co-reference is often non-trivial to determine. For example, in Bill said he would come, the word he may or may not refer to Bill. Determining which expressions are coreferences is an important part of analyzing or understanding the meaning, and often requires information from the context,real-world knowledge, such as tendencies of some names to be associated with particular species ("Rover"), kinds of artifacts ("Titanic"), grammatical genders, or other properties.
Crystal, D. 1997. A dictionary of linguistics and phonetics. 4th edition. Cambridge, MA: Blackwell Publishing.
Portner, P. 2005. What is semantics?: Fundamentals of formal semantics. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing.
Only Jacki likes hisi grade. – The pronoun his can be a bound variable.
Li et al. (2009) have demonstrated high accuracy in sorting out pleonastic it, and this success promises to improve the accuracy of coreference resolution overall.
For definitions of coreference, see for instance Crystal (1997:94) and Radford (2004:332).
Barry, A. 1998. English Grammar: Language as Human Behavior. Upper Saddle River, NJ.: Prentice Hall.
The subject is a constituent that can be realized in numerous forms in English and other languages, many of which are listed in the following table:
The prominence of the subject is consistently reflected in its position in the tree as an immediate dependent of the root word, the finite verb.
That nothing else is good enough shouldn't come as a surprise.
The fourth criterion is better applicable to languages other than English given that English largely lacks morphological case marking, the exception being the subject and object forms of pronouns, I/me, he/him, she/her, they/them.
Fergusson, R. and M. Manser 1998. The Macmillan Guide to English Grammar. London: Macmillan.
In languages such as Latin and German the subject of a verb has a form which is known as the nominative case: for example, the form 'he' (not 'him' or 'his') is used in sentences such as he ran, he broke the window, he is a teacher, he was hit by a car. But there are some languages such as Basque or Greenlandic, in which the form of a noun or pronoun when the verb is intransitive (he ran) is different from when the verb is transitive (he broke the window). In these languages, which are known as ergative languages, the concept of subject may not apply at all.
Since subjects are typically marked by the nominative case in German (the fourth criterion above), one can argue that this sentence lacks a subject, for the relevant verb argument appears in the dative case, not in the nominative.
^ For a discussion of the subject status of existential there, see Biber et al. (1999:944).
Existential there-constructions allow for varying interpretations about what should count as the subject, e.g.
Position occupied: The subject typically immediately precedes the finite verb in declarative clauses in English, e.g. Tom laughs.
There are certain constructions that challenge the criteria just introduced for identifying subjects. The following subsections briefly illustrate three such cases in English: 1) existential there-constructions, 2) inverse copular constructions, and 3) locative inversion constructions.
Under the bed have been breeding spiders. - Locative inversion
Omission: Many languages systematically omit a subject that is known in discourse.
In ergative languages such as the nearly extinct Australian language Dyirbal, in a transitive sentence it is the patient rather than the agent that can be omitted in such sentences: Balan dyugumbil baŋgul yaraŋgu balgan, baninyu 'The man (bayi yara) hit the woman (balan dyugumbil) and [she] came here'
From a functional perspective, a subject is a phrase that conflates nominative case with the topic. Many languages (such as those with ergative or Austronesian alignment) do not do this, and by this definition would not have subjects.
See Tesnière (1969:103-105) for the alternative concept of sentence structure that puts the subject and the object on more equal footing since they can both be dependents of a (finite) verb.
^ The division of the clause into a subject and a predicate is a view of sentence structure that is adopted by most English grammars, e.g. Conner (1968:43), Freeborn (1995:121), and Biber et al. (1999:122).
^ For basic discussions of subject-verb agreement, see for instance Barry (1998:68f.), Fergusson and Manser (1998:36f.), and Jurafsky and Martin (2000:366f.).
Chemistry is being studied (by Tom). - The 1st and the 2nd criteria identify Chemistry as the subject.
Semantic role: A typical subject in the active voice is an agent or theme, i.e. it performs the action expressed by the verb or when it is a theme, it receives a property assigned to it by the predicate.
The criteria combine to identify the boys as the subject in sentence 1. But if that is the case, then one might argue that the boys is also the subject in the similar sentence 2, even though two of the criteria (agreement and position occupied) suggest that a chaotic force around here is the subject. When confronted with such data, one has to make a decision that is less than fully arbitrary. If one assumes again that criterion one (agreement) is the most reliable, one can usually identify a subject.
^ Dependency trees similar to the ones produced here can be found in *Ágel et al. (2003/6).
*Where have been breeding spiders? - Failed attempt to question the location
5Difficult cases											Toggle Difficult cases subsection																					5.1Existential there-constructions																											5.2Inverse copular constructions																											5.3Locative inversion constructions
For basic discussions of subject-verb agreement, see for instance Barry (1998:68f.), Fergusson and Manser (1998:36f.), and Jurafsky and Martin (2000:366f.).
Moro, A. 1997. The raising of predicates. Predicative noun phrases and the theory of clause structure, Cambridge Studies in Linguistics, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England.
Subjects are indicated using blue, and objects using orange. The special status of the subject is visible insofar as the subject is higher in the tree each time than the object. In theories of syntax that reject the initial division (as is the case in most dependency grammars), the subject is nevertheless also granted a privileged status insofar as it is an immediate dependent of the finite verb. The following trees are those of a dependency grammar:[11]
The subject in a simple English sentence such as John runs, John is a teacher, or John drives a car, is the person or thing about whom the statement is made, in this case John. Traditionally the subject is the word or phrase which controls the verb in the clause, that is to say with which the verb agrees (John is but John and Mary are). If there is no verb, as in Nicola –what an idiot!, or if the verb has a different subject, as in John –I can't stand him!, then 'John' is not considered to be the grammatical subject, but can be described as the topic of the sentence.
Despite her objections, he sold us ten bags of clothes.
In the example sentences below, the subjects are indicated in boldface.
Comrie, Bernard (1981, 2nd ed. 1989) Language Universals and Linguistic Typology. University of Chicago Press.
All of these positions see the subject in English determining person and number agreement on the finite verb, as exemplified by the difference in verb forms between he eats and they eat. The stereotypical subject immediately precedes the finite verb in declarative sentences in English and represents an agent or a theme. The subject is often a multi-word constituent and should be distinguished from parts of speech, which, roughly, classify words within constituents.
^ See Tesnière (1969:103-105) for the alternative concept of sentence structure that puts the subject and the object on more equal footing since they can both be dependents of a (finite) verb.
Dependency trees similar to the ones produced here can be found in *Ágel et al. (2003/6).
To eat six different kinds of vegetables a day is healthy.
Mikkelsen, L. 2005. Copular clauses: Specification, predication, and equation. Linguistics Today 85. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
One criterion for identifying a subject in various languages is the possibility of its omission in coordinated sentences such as the following:[7] The man hit the woman and [the man] came here.
^ See Biber et al. (1999:123) for a similar list of criteria for identifying subjects.
Tom is studying chemistry. - The three criteria agree identifying Tom as the subject.
This suggests that in ergative languages of this kind the patient is actually the subject in a transitive sentence.
Impersonal sentences in Scottish Gaelic can occasionally have a very similar form to the first German example where an actor is omitted. In the following sentence, the word ‘chaidh’ ("went") is an auxiliary carrying tense and is used in an impersonal or passive constructions. The word ‘falbh’ ("leaving") is a verbal noun.
The subject (glossing abbreviations: SUB or SU) is, according to a tradition that can be traced back to Aristotle (and that is associated with phrase structure grammars), one of the two main constituents of a clause, the other constituent being the predicate, whereby the predicate says something about the subject.[2][3] According to a tradition associated with predicate logic and dependency grammars, the subject is the most prominent overt argument of the predicate. By this position all languages with arguments have subjects, though there is no way to define this consistently for all languages.[4] Even in languages such as English, there is not always a perfect match between the semantic predicand and the subject, as a predicate may be predicated on an argument in another clause (see raising).
Another difficult case for identifying the subject is the so-called inverse copular construction, e.g.[9]
Phrase structure trees similar to the ones produced here can be found in numerous introductory texts to grammar and syntax, e.g. Payne (2011).
In a passive construction, the patient becomes the subject by this criterion: The woman was hit by the man and [the woman] came here.
The word gestern 'yesterday' is generally construed as an adverb, which means it cannot be taken as the subject in this sentence. Certain verbs in German also require a dative or accusative object instead of a nominative subject, e.g.
For in depth studies of inverse copular constructions, see Moro (1997) and Mikkelsen (2005).
In the first sentence, all three criteria combine to identify Tom as the subject. In the second sentence, which involves the subject-auxiliary inversion of a yes/no-question, the subject immediately follows the finite verb (instead of immediately preceding it), which means the second criterion is flouted. And in the third sentence expressed in the passive voice, the 1st and the 2nd criterion combine to identify chemistry as the subject, whereas the third criterion suggests that by Tom should be the subject because Tom is an agent.
The fifth criterion is helpful in languages that typically drop pronominal subjects, such as Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, Latin, Greek, Japanese, and Mandarin. Though most of these languages are rich in verb forms for determining the person and number of the subject, Japanese and Mandarin have no such forms at all. This dropping pattern does not automatically make a language a pro-drop language. In other languages, like English and French, most clauses should have a subject, which should be either a noun (phrase), a pronoun, or a clause. This is also true when the clause has no element to be represented by it. This is why verbs like rain must have a subject such as it, even if nothing is actually being represented by it. In this case, it is an expletive and a dummy pronoun. In imperative clauses, most languages elide the subject, even in English which typically requires a subject to be present, e.g.
Morphological case: In languages that have case systems, the subject is marked by a specific case, often the nominative.
Jurafsky, D. and J. Martin 2000. Speech and Language Processing: An introduction to natural language processing, computational linguistics, and speech recognition. New Delhi, India: Pearson Education.
Hale, K.; Keyser, J. (2002). "Prolegomena to a theory of argument structure", Linguistic Inquiry Monograph, 39, MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Yet another type of construction that challenges the subject concept is locative inversion, e.g.
The existence of subject-less clauses can be construed as particularly problematic for theories of sentence structure that build on the binary subject-predicate division. A simple sentence is defined as the combination of a subject and a predicate, but if no subject is present, how can one have a sentence? Subject-less clauses are absent from English for the most part, but they are not unusual in related languages. In German, for instance, impersonal passive clauses can lack a recognizable subject, e.g.
^ See Conner (1968:43ff.) for a discussion of the traditional subject concept.
Payne, T. 2011. Understanding English Grammar. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
See Conner (1968:43ff.) for a discussion of the traditional subject concept.
Biber, D. et al. 1999. Longman Grammar of spoken and written English. Essex, England: Pearson Education limited.
Is Tom studying chemistry? - The 1st and the 3rd criteria identify Tom as the subject.
A chaotic force around here is the boys. - Inverse copular construction
Conner, J. 1968. A Grammar of Standard English. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company.
^ For in depth studies of inverse copular constructions, see Moro (1997) and Mikkelsen (2005).
The division of the clause into a subject and a predicate is a view of sentence structure that is adopted by most English grammars, e.g. Conner (1968:43), Freeborn (1995:121), and Biber et al. (1999:122).
While these definitions apply to simple English sentences, defining the subject is more difficult in more complex sentences and in languages other than English. For example, in the sentence It is difficult to learn French, the subject seems to be the word it, and yet arguably[according to whom?] the real subject (the thing that is difficult) is to learn French. A sentence such as It was John who broke the window is more complex still. Sentences beginning with a locative phrase, such as There is a problem, isn't there?, in which the tag question isn't there? seems to imply that the subject is the adverb there, also create difficulties for the definition of subject.[1]
^ Phrase structure trees similar to the ones produced here can be found in numerous introductory texts to grammar and syntax, e.g. Payne (2011).
Tesnière, L. 1969. Éleménts de syntaxe structurale. 2nd edition. Paris: Klincksieck.
Of these three criteria, the first one (agreement) is the most reliable. The subject in English and many other languages agrees with the finite verb in person and number (and sometimes in gender as well). The second and third criterion are merely strong tendencies that can be flouted in certain constructions, e.g.
The subject is a dependent of the root node, the finite verb, in both trees. The object, in contrast, appears lower in the second tree, where it is a dependent of the non-finite verb. The subject remains a dependent finite verb when subject-auxiliary inversion occurs:
Subject-verb agreement: The subject agrees with the finite verb in person and number, e.g. I am vs. *I is.[6]
In sentence 1, the first criterion (agreement) and the second criterion (position occupied) suggest that there is the subject, whereas the third criterion (semantic role) suggests rather that problems is the subject. In sentence 2, in contrast, agreement and semantic role suggest that problems is the subject, whereas position occupied suggests that there is the subject. In such cases then, one can take the first criterion as the most telling; the subject should agree with the finite verb.[8]
For a discussion of the subject status of existential there, see Biber et al. (1999:944).
See Biber et al. (1999:123) for a similar list of criteria for identifying subjects.
The criteria easily identify spiders as the subject in sentence 1. In sentence 2, however, the position occupied suggests that under the bed should be construed as the subject, whereas agreement and semantic role continue to identify spiders as the subject. This is so despite the fact that spiders in sentence 2 appears after the string of verbs in the canonical position of an object. The fact that sentence 3 is bad but sentence 4 is good reveals that something unusual is indeed afoot, since the attempt to question the location fails if the subject does not immediately follow the finite verb. This further observation speaks against taking spiders as the subject in sentence 2. But if spiders is not the subject, then the sentence must lack a subject entirely, which is not supposed to be possible in English.
The subject receives a privileged status in theories of sentence structure. In those approaches that acknowledge the binary division of the clause into a subject and a predicate (as is the case in most phrase structure grammars), the subject is usually an immediate dependent of the root node, whereby its sister is the predicate. The object, in contrast, appears lower in the structure as a dependent of the/a verb, e.g.[10]
Ágel, V., L. Eichinger, H.-W. Eroms, P. Hellwig, H. Heringer, and H. Lobin (eds.) 2003/6. Dependency and valency: An International Handbook of Contemporary Research. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
This page was last edited on 11 February 2023, at 09:41 (UTC).
You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate.
The man who is sitting over there told me that he just bought a ticket to Tahiti.
Where have spiders been breeding? - Successful attempt to question the location
For accounts of PRO, see for instance van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986:132ff.), Cowper (1992:157ff.), Haegeman (1994:257ff.), Culicover (1997:75-77), Carnie (2007:395ff.).
Davies, William D., and Stanley Dubinsky. 2008. The grammar of raising and control: A course in syntactic argumentation. John Wiley & Sons.
The constituency trees shown here are similar to those that were widely produced in the 1970s, e.g. Bach (1974). The dependency trees here are similar to those that are produced by Osborne and Groß (2012).
Control and raising also differ in how they behave with idiomatic expressions.[11] Idiomatic expressions retain their meaning in a raising construction, but they lose it when they are arguments of a control verb. See the examples below featuring the idiom "The cat is out of the bag", which has the meaning that facts that were previously hidden are now revealed.
The control predicates cannot take expletive there because there does not fulfill the semantic requirements of the control predicates. Since the raising-to-object predicates do not select their objects, they can easily take expletive there.
The details of this tree are, again, not so important. What is important is that by positing the existence of the null subject PRO, the theoretical analysis of control constructions gains a useful tool that can help uncover important traits of control constructions.
Borsley, R. 1996. Modern phrase structure grammar. Cambridge, MA: Blackwell Publishers.
Carnie, A. 2007. Syntax: A generative introduction, 2nd edition. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing.
van Riemsdijk, H. and E. Williams. 1986. Introduction to the theory of grammar. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Grinder, J. and S. Elgin. 1973. Guide to transformational grammar: History, theory, and practice. New York: Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, Inc.
Each of these sentences contains two verbal predicates. Each time the control verb is on the left, and the verb whose arguments are controlled is on the right. The control verb determines which expression is interpreted as the subject of the verb on the right. The first three sentences are examples of subject control, since the subject of the control verb is also the understood subject of the subordinate verb. The second three examples are instances of object control, because the object of the control verb is understood as the subject of the subordinate verb. The argument of the matrix predicate that functions as the subject of the embedded predicate is the controller. The controllers are in bold in the examples.
The expletive is widely employed to distinguish control from raising constructions. See for instance Grinder and Elgin (1973:142-143), Bach (1973:151), McCawley (1988:121), Borsley (1996:127), Culicover (1997:102), Saito (1999:8-9).
Arbitrary control is discussed for instance by van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986:137f.), Cowper 1992:162), Culicover (1997:75-76), Carnie (207:285ff.).
See for instance van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986:128ff.), Cowper (1992:161ff.), Borsley (1996:126-144).
^ See van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986:137) and Haegeman (1994:277) concerning non-obligatory/optional control.
The constituency-based trees are the a-trees on the left, and the dependency-based trees the b-trees on the right. Certainly aspects of these trees - especially of the constituency trees - can be disputed. In the current context, the trees are intended merely to suggest by way of illustration how control and PRO are conceived of. The indices are a common means of identifying PRO and with its antecedent in the control predicate, and the orange arrows indicate further the control relation. In a sense, the controller assigns its index to PRO, which identifies the argument that is understood as the subject of the subordinate predicate.
Concerning the designation Equi-NP deletion for control structures, see for instance Bach (1974:116f.), Emonds (1976:193f. note 15), Culicover (1982:250).
Many syntax books discuss the way idioms are used to diagnose control and raising constructions. See Carnie (2007), Davies & Dubinsky (2008).
McCawley, T. 1988. The syntactic phenomena of English, Vol. 1. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
The explanation for this fact is that raising predicates do not semantically select their arguments, and therefore their arguments are not interpreted compositionally, as the subject or object of the raising predicate. Arguments of the control predicate, on the other hand, have to fulfill their semantic requirements, and interpreted as the argument of the predicate compositionally.
The understood subject of the gerunds in these sentence is non-discriminate; any generic person will do. In such cases, control is said to be "arbitrary". Any time the understood subject of a given predicate is not present in the linguistic or situational context, a generic subject (e.g. 'one') is understood.
^ See for instance van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986:128ff.), Cowper (1992:161ff.), Borsley (1996:126-144).
Lasnik, H. and M. Saito. 1999. On the subject of infinitives. In H. Lasnik, Minimalist analysis, 7-24. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
In linguistics, control is a construction in which the understood subject of a given predicate is determined by some expression in context. Stereotypical instances of control involve verbs. A superordinate verb "controls" the arguments of a subordinate, nonfinite verb. Control was intensively studied in the government and binding framework in the 1980s, and much of the terminology from that era is still used today.[1] In the days of Transformational Grammar, control phenomena were discussed in terms of Equi-NP deletion.[2] Control is often analyzed in terms of a null pronoun called PRO. Control is also related to raising, although there are important differences between control and raising. Most if not all languages have control constructions and these constructions tend to occur frequently.[citation needed]
Rosenbaum, Peter. 1967. The grammar of English predicate complement constructions. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Standard instances of (obligatory) control are present in the following sentences:
The control predicates ask and force semantically select their object arguments, whereas the raising-to-object verbs do not. Instead, the object of the raising verb appears to have "risen" from the subject position of the embedded predicate, in this case from the embedded predicates to read and to have said. In other words, the embedded predicate is semantically selecting the argument of the matrix predicate. What this means is that while a raising-to-object verb takes an object dependent, that dependent is not a semantic argument of that raising verb. The distinction becomes apparent when one considers that a control predicate like ask requires its object to be an animate entity, whereas a raising-to-object predicate like expects places no semantic limitations on its object dependent.
^ Concerning the designation Equi-NP deletion for control structures, see for instance Bach (1974:116f.), Emonds (1976:193f. note 15), Culicover (1982:250).
Theoretical linguistics posits the existence of the null pronoun PRO as the theoretical basis for the analysis of control structures. The null pronoun PRO is an element that impacts a sentence in a similar manner to how a normal pronoun impacts a sentence, but the null pronoun is inaudible.[6]The null PRO is added to the predicate, where it occupies the position that one would typically associate with an overt subject (if one were present). The following trees illustrate PRO in both constituency-based structures of phrase structure grammars and dependency-based structures of dependency grammars:[7]
^ The constituency trees shown here are similar to those that were widely produced in the 1970s, e.g. Bach (1974). The dependency trees here are similar to those that are produced by Osborne and Groß (2012).
Control verbs have semantic content; they semantically select their arguments, that is, their appearance strongly influences the nature of the arguments they take.[3] In this regard, they are very different from auxiliary verbs, which lack semantic content and do not semantically select arguments. Compare the following pairs of sentences:
^ Numerous GB trees like the one here can be found in, for instance, Haegeman (1994).
^ For accounts of PRO, see for instance van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986:132ff.), Cowper (1992:157ff.), Haegeman (1994:257ff.), Culicover (1997:75-77), Carnie (2007:395ff.).
Arbitrary control occurs when the controller is understood to be anybody in general, e.g.[5]
The different predicate types can be identified using expletive there.[10] Expletive there can appear as the "object" of a raising-to-object predicate, but not of a control verb, e.g.
Haegeman, L. 1994. Introduction to government and binding theory, 2nd edition. Oxford, UK: Blackwell.
^ Many syntax books discuss the way idioms are used to diagnose control and raising constructions. See Carnie (2007), Davies & Dubinsky (2008).
Osborne, T. and T. Groß 2012. Constructions are catenae: Construction Grammar meets Dependency Grammar. Cognitive Linguistics 23, 1, 163-214.
Emonds, J. 1976. A transformational approach to English syntax: Root, structure-preserving, and local transformations. New York: Academic Press.
Culicover, P. 1982. Syntax, 2nd edition. New York: Academic Press.
The grammar of raising and control: A course in syntactic argumentation
Control must be distinguished from raising, though the two can be outwardly similar.[9] Control predicates semantically select their arguments, as stated above. Raising predicates, in contrast, do not semantically select (at least) one of their dependents. The contrast is evident with the so-called raising-to-object verbs (=ECM-verbs) such as believe, expect, want, and prove. Compare the following a- and b-sentences:
Accounts of control emphasize that control verbs semantically select their dependents, as opposed to raising predicates, which do not select one of their dependents. See for instance van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986:130), Borsley (1996:133), Culicover (1997:102).
In one sense, control is obligatory in these sentences because the arguments of the present participles singing, understanding, and holding are clearly controlled by the matrix subjects. In another sense, however, control is non-obligatory (or optional) because there is no control predicate present that necessitates that control occur.[4] General contextual factors are determining which expression is understood as the controller. The controller is the subject in these sentences because the subject establishes point of view.
Culicover, P. 1997. Principles and Parameters: An introduction to syntactic theory. Oxford University Press.
This page was last edited on 17 March 2023, at 20:00 (UTC).
See van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986:137) and Haegeman (1994:277) concerning non-obligatory/optional control.
6Control vs. raising											Toggle Control vs. raising subsection																					6.1Diagnostic Tests																								6.1.1Expletives																											6.1.2Idioms
The a-sentences contain auxiliary verbs that do not select the subject argument. What this means is that the embedded verbs go, do, and lie and cheat are responsible for semantically selecting the subject argument. The point is that while control verbs may have the same outward appearance as auxiliary verbs, the two verb types are quite different.
Bach, E. 1974. Syntactic theory. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc.
^ Accounts of control emphasize that control verbs semantically select their dependents, as opposed to raising predicates, which do not select one of their dependents. See for instance van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986:130), Borsley (1996:133), Culicover (1997:102).
Cowper, E. 2009. A concise introduction to syntactic theory: The government-binding approach. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
^ The expletive is widely employed to distinguish control from raising constructions. See for instance Grinder and Elgin (1973:142-143), Bach (1973:151), McCawley (1988:121), Borsley (1996:127), Culicover (1997:102), Saito (1999:8-9).
Control verbs (such as promise, stop, try, ask, tell, force, yearn, refuse, attempt) obligatorily induce a control construction. That is, when control verbs appear, they inherently determine which of their arguments controls the embedded predicate. Control is hence obligatorily present with these verbs. In contrast, the arguments of many verbs can be controlled even when a superordinate control verb is absent, e.g.
Concerning the difference between control and raising, see Bach (1974:149), Culicover (1997:102), Carnie (2007:403ff.).
^ Concerning the difference between control and raising, see Bach (1974:149), Culicover (1997:102), Carnie (2007:403ff.).
A (constituency-based) X-bar theoretic tree that is consistent with the standard GB-type analysis is given next:[8]
Numerous GB trees like the one here can be found in, for instance, Haegeman (1994).
^ Arbitrary control is discussed for instance by van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986:137f.), Cowper 1992:162), Culicover (1997:75-76), Carnie (207:285ff.).
However, -euro/-ro is somewhat irregular, since it will behave differently after a ㄹ (rieul consonant).
The semivowels /w/ and /j/ are represented in Korean writing by modifications to vowel symbols (see below).
^ "수원 사투리 쓰는 이창섭" [Lee Chang-seop speaks Suwon dialect.]. YouTube (in Korean). Archived from the original on 11 December 2021.
"Beliefs that bind". Korea JoongAng Daily. 23 October 2007. Archived from the original on 1 May 2013. Retrieved 16 August 2012.{{cite news}}:CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)
Source: Unescopress. "New interactive atlas adds two more endangered languages | United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization". Unesco.org. Retrieved 11 December 2013.
Sohn, Ho-Min (2006). Korean Language in Culture and Society. Boston, MA: Twayne Publishers. ISBN 978-0-8248-2694-9.
Korean uses words adapted from English in ways that may seem strange or unintuitive to native English speakers. For example, fighting (화이팅 / 파이팅 hwaiting / paiting) is a term of encouragement, like 'come on'/'go (on)' in English. Something that is 'service' (서비스 seobiseu) is free or 'on the house'. A building referred to as an 'apart' (아파트 apateu) is an 'apartment' (but in fact refers to a residence more akin to a condominium) and a type of pencil that is called a 'sharp' (샤프) is a mechanical pencil. Like other borrowings, many of these idiosyncrasies, including all the examples listed above, appear to be imported into Korean via Japanese, or influenced by Japanese. Many English words introduced via Japanese pronunciation have been reformed, as in 멜론 (melon) which was once called 메론 (meron) as in Japanese.
Hudson & Robbeets (2020) suggested that there are traces of a pre-Nivkh substratum in Korean. According to the hypothesis, ancestral varieties of Nivkh (also known as Amuric) were once distributed on the Korean peninsula before the arrival of Koreanic speakers.[20]
One into Many: Translation and the Dissemination of Classical Chinese Literature
This page was last edited on 12 March 2023, at 19:43 (UTC).
Hudson, Mark J.; Robbeets, Martine (2020). "Archaeolinguistic Evidence for the Farming/Language Dispersal of Koreanic". Evolutionary Human Sciences. 2. e52. doi:10.1017/ehs.2020.49.
Chen, Jiangping (18 January 2016). Multilingual Access and Services for Digital Collections. ABC-CLIO. p. 66. ISBN 978-1-4408-3955-9. Retrieved 20 September 2016.
^ Choi, Jiyoun; Kim, Sahyang; Cho, Taehong (22 October 2020). "An apparent-time study of an ongoing sound change in Seoul Korean: A prosodic account". PLOS ONE. 15 (10): e0240682. Bibcode:2020PLoSO..1540682C. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0240682. PMC 7580931. PMID 33091043.
Below is a chart of the Korean alphabet's (Hangul) symbols and their Revised Romanization (RR) and canonical International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) values:
Chungcheong dialect is one of the most recognized dialects in South Korea, along with Jeolla dialect and Gyeongsang dialect.
The study of the Korean language in the United States is dominated by Korean American heritage language students, who in 2007 were estimated to form over 80% of all students of the language at non-military universities.[74] However, Sejong Institutes in the United States have noted a sharp rise in the number of people of other ethnic backgrounds studying Korean between 2009 and 2011, which they attribute to rising popularity of South Korean music and television shows.[75] In 2018, it was reported that the rise in K-Pop was responsible for the increase in people learning the language in US universities.[76]
^ Vovin (2008), pp. 211–212. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFVovin2008 (help)
The IPA symbol ⟨◌͈⟩ (a subscript double straight quotation mark, shown here with a placeholder circle) is used to denote the Tensed consonants /p͈/, /t͈/, /k͈/, /t͡ɕ͈/, /s͈/. Its official use in the Extensions to the IPA is for 'strong' articulation, but is used in the literature for faucalized voice. The Korean consonants also have elements of stiff voice, but it is not yet known how typical this is of faucalized consonants. They are produced with a partially constricted glottis and additional subglottal pressure in addition to tense vocal tract walls, laryngeal lowering, or other expansion of the larynx.
/p, t, t͡ɕ, k/ become voiced [b, d, d͡ʑ, ɡ] between voiced sounds.
The vowel 'ㅗ(o)' is mainly changed to 'ㅜ(u)'.example: 1) "What are you doing?" 2) uncle
In South Korea, the Korean language is referred to by many names including hanguk-eocode: kor promoted to code: ko("Korean language"), hanguk-malcode: kor promoted to code: ko("Korean speech") and uri-malcode: kor promoted to code: ko("our language"); "hangukcode: kor promoted to code: ko " is taken from the name of the Korean Empire (대한제국; 大韓帝國; Daehan Jeguk). The "hancode: kor promoted to code: ko " (韓code: kor promoted to code: ko ) in Hangukcode: kor promoted to code: koand Daehan Jegukcode: kor promoted to code: kois derived from Samhan, in reference to the Three Kingdoms of Korea (not the ancient confederacies in the southern Korean Peninsula),[10][11] while "-eocode: kor promoted to code: ko " and "-malcode: kor promoted to code: ko " mean "language" and "speech", respectively. Korean is also simply referred to as guk-eocode: kor promoted to code: ko , literally "national language". This name is based on the same Han characters (國語code: kor promoted to code: ko"nation" + "language") that are also used in Taiwan and Japan to refer to their respective national languages.
^ Lee, Kenneth B. (1997). Korea and East Asia: The Story of a Phoenix. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 90. ISBN 978-0-275-95823-7. Retrieved 26 December 2016.
Cho and Whitman (2019) explain that the different categories like male and female in social conditions influence Korean's features. What they noticed was the word jagi (자기). Before explaining the word jagi, one thing that needs to be clearly distinguished is that jagi can be used in a variety of situations, not all of which mean the same thing, but they depend on the context. Parallel variable solidarity and affection move the convention of speech style, especially terms of address that Jagi (자기 'you') has emerged as a gender-specific second-person pronoun used by women. However, young Koreans use the word jagi to their lovers or spouses regardless of gender. Among middle-aged women, the word jagi is sometimes used to call someone who is close to them.
In the case of the Yeongseo dialect, the accent is slightly different from the dialect of Gyeonggi Province, but most of the vocabulary is similar to the dialect of Gyeonggi Province.
^ Cho, Sunghye (2017). Development of pitch contrast and Seoul Korean intonation (PhD). University of Pennsylvania.
"수원 사투리 쓰는 이창섭" [Lee Chang-seop speaks Suwon dialect.]. YouTube (in Korean). Archived from the original on 11 December 2021.
The letters of the Korean alphabet are not written linearly like most alphabets, but instead arranged into blocks that represent syllables. So, while the word bibimbap (Korean rice dish) is written as eight characters in a row in the Latin alphabet, in Korean it is written 비빔밥, as three "syllabic blocks" in a row. Mukbang (먹방 'eating show') is seven characters after romanization but only two "syllabic blocks" before.
Much of Northern Jeolla, especially in areas close to Southern Chungcheong like Jeonju, Gunsan and Wanju have traditionally had weaker accents compared to the south, and in some cases, might be more closer to the Chungcheong dialect in terms of vocabulary and intonation.
Chinese characters arrived in Korea (see Sino-Xenic pronunciations for further information) together with Buddhism during the Proto-Three Kingdoms era in the 1st century BC. They were adapted for Korean and became known as Hanja, and remained as the main script for writing Korean for over a millennium alongside various phonetic scripts that were later invented such as Idu, Gugyeol and Hyangchal. Mainly privileged elites were educated to read and write in Hanja. However, most of the population was illiterate.
Starostin, Sergei (1991). Altaiskaya problema i proishozhdeniye yaponskogo yazika [The Altaic Problem and the Origins of the Japanese Language] (PDF) (in Russian). Moscow: Nauka.
^ "DLI's language guidelines". AUSA. 1 August 2010. Retrieved 20 April 2021.
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Hölzl, Andreas (29 August 2018). A typology of questions in Northeast Asia and beyond: An ecological perspective. Language Science Press. p. 25. ISBN 9783961101023.
"'서울 사투리?' 방송 인터뷰 모음.zip" ['Seoul dialect?' Collection of interviews.zip]. YouTube (in Korean). Archived from the original on 11 December 2021.
To have a more complete understanding of the intricacies of gender in Korean, three models of language and gender that have been proposed: the deficit model, the dominance model, and the cultural difference model. In the deficit model, male speech is seen as the default, and any form of speech that diverges from that norm (female speech) is seen as lesser than. The dominance model sees women as lacking in power due to living within a patriarchal society. The cultural difference model proposes that the difference in upbringing between men and women can explain the differences in their speech patterns. It is important to look at the models to better understand the misogynistic conditions that shaped the ways that men and women use the language. Korean's lack of grammatical gender makes it different from most European languages. Rather, gendered differences in Korean can be observed through formality, intonation, word choice, etc.[23]
When '이(i)', '야(ya)', '여(yeo)', '요(yo)', '유(yu)', '에(e)' appear at the beginning, the consonant is changed to 'ㄴ(n)'.example: 1) Summer 2) Seven 3) Trend
Nowadays, younger-generation speakers no longer feel obligated to lower their usual regard toward the referent. It is common to see younger people talk to their older relatives with banmal (반말). This is not out of disrespect, but instead it shows the intimacy and the closeness of the relationship between the two speakers. Transformations in social structures and attitudes in today's rapidly changing society have brought about change in the way people speak.[21][page needed]
4Phonology											Toggle Phonology subsection																					4.1Consonants																								4.1.1Assimilation and allophony																														4.2Vowels																											4.3Morphophonemics
Traditionally, /l/ was disallowed at the beginning of a word. It disappeared before [j], and otherwise became /n/. However, the inflow of western loanwords changed the trend, and now word-initial /l/ (mostly from English loanwords) are pronounced as a free variation of either [ɾ] or [l]. The traditional prohibition of word-initial /l/ became a morphological rule called "initial law" (두음법칙) in South Korea, which pertains to Sino-Korean vocabulary. Such words retain their word-initial /l/ in North Korea.
About 70% of all Seoul dialect vocabulary has been adopted as Pyojuneo, and only about 10% out of 30% of Seoul dialect vocabulary that has not been adopted in Pyojuneo have been used so far.
"Languages". United States Department of State. Retrieved 27 May 2016.
Recently, young people have come to realize that there is a dialect in Seoul as they are exposed to the Seoul dialect through media such as YouTube.[60][61]
^ Measured as of 2020. The estimated 2020 combined population of North and South Korea was about 77 million.
Use '나(na)' a lot in questionable form.example: "What are you doing lately?"
^ Kim, Mi-Ryoung (2013). "Tonogenesis in contemporary Korean with special reference to the onset-tone interaction and the loss of a consonant opposition". The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America. 133 (3570): 3570. Bibcode:2013ASAJ..133.3570K. doi:10.1121/1.4806535.
Gangwon Province is divided between Yeongseo and Yeongdong due to the Taebaek Mountains, so even if it is the same Gangwon Province, there is a significant difference in dialect between the two regions.
^ Kang, Yoonjung; Han, Sungwoo (September 2013). "Tonogenesis in early Contemporary Seoul Korean: A longitudinal case study". Lingua. 134: 62–74. doi:10.1016/j.lingua.2013.06.002.
Therefore, just like other words, Korean has two sets of numeral systems. English is similar, having native English words and Latinate equivalents such as water-aqua, fire-flame, sea-marine, two-dual, sun-solar, star-stellar. However, unlike English and Latin which belong to the same Indo-European languages family and bear a certain resemblance, Korean and Chinese are genetically unrelated and the two sets of Korean words differ completely from each other. All Sino-Korean morphemes are monosyllabic as in Chinese, whereas native Korean morphemes can be polysyllabic. The Sino-Korean words were deliberately imported alongside corresponding Chinese characters for a written language and everything was supposed to be written in Hanja, so the coexistence of Sino-Korean would be more thorough and systematic than that of Latinate words in English.
Before the creation of the modern Korean alphabet, known as Chosŏn'gŭl in North Korea and as Hangul in South Korea, people in Korea (known as Joseon at the time) primarily wrote using Classical Chinese alongside native phonetic writing systems that predate Hangul by hundreds of years, including idu, hyangchal, gugyeol, and gakpil.[34][35][36][37] However, the fundamental differences between the Korean and Chinese languages and the large number of characters to be learned made few people in the lower classes have the privilege of education, and they had much difficulty in learning how to write using Chinese characters. To assuage that problem, King Sejong (r. 1418–1450) created the unique alphabet known as Hangul to promote literacy among the common people.[38]
Kim-Renaud, Young-Key (1997). The Korean Alphabet: Its History and Structure. University of Hawaii Press. p. 15. ISBN 9780824817237. Retrieved 16 May 2018.
^ Choo, Miho (2008). Using Korean: A Guide to Contemporary Usage. Cambridge University Press. p. 3. ISBN 978-1-139-47139-8.
"Korean is virtually two languages, and that's a big problem for North Korean defectors". Public Radio International. Retrieved 18 January 2016.
'네(ne)' is used as a questionable form.example: "Did you eat?"
The vowel 'ㅑ(ya)' that comes to the ending is changed to 'ㅕ(yeo)'.example: 1) "What are you talking about?" 2) "What are you doing?"
Concise History of the Language Sciences: From the Sumerians to the Cognitivists
Gangwon dialect is the least spoken dialect of all dialects in South Korea except Jeju.
Aside from the standard language, there are few clear boundaries between Korean dialects, and they are typically partially grouped according to the regions of Korea.[55][56]
^ According to Google's NGram English corpus of 2015, "Google Ngram Viewer".
Kang Yoon-jung et al. (2013),[49] Kim Mi-ryoung (2013),[50] and Cho Sung-hye (2017)[51] suggest that the modern Seoul dialect is currently undergoing tonogenesis, based on the finding that in recent years lenis consonants (ㅂㅈㄷㄱ), aspirated consonants (ㅍㅊㅌㅋ) and fortis consonants (ㅃㅉㄸㄲ) were shifting from a distinction via voice onset time to that of pitch change; however, Choi Ji-youn et al. (2020) disagree with the suggestion that the consonant distinction shifting away from voice onset time is due to the introduction of tonal features, and instead proposes that it is a prosodically conditioned change.[52]
Since the turn of the 21st century, aspects of Korean culture have spread to other countries through globalization and cultural exports. As such, interest in Korean language acquisition (as a foreign language) is also generated by longstanding alliances, military involvement, and diplomacy, such as between South Korea–United States and China–North Korea since the end of World War II and the Korean War. Along with other languages such as Chinese and Arabic, Korean is ranked at the top difficulty level for English speakers by the United States Department of Defense.
Whitman, John (1 December 2011). "Northeast Asian Linguistic Ecology and the Advent of Rice Agriculture in Korea and Japan". Rice. 4 (3): 149–158. doi:10.1007/s12284-011-9080-0. ISSN 1939-8433.
Due to a high amount of Korean war refugees, areas such as Incheon close to Hwanghae, have large populations of people originally from Hwanghae. Thus, certain phrases and words from the dialect can seldom be heard among older residents of such cities.
Modern Korean is written in the Korean script (한글; Hangul in South Korea, 조선글; Chosŏn'gŭl in North Korea), a system developed during the 15th century for that purpose, although it did not become the primary script until the 20th century. The script uses 24 basic letters (jamo) and 27 complex letters formed from the basic ones. When first recorded in historical texts, Korean was only a spoken language; all written records were maintained in Classical Chinese, which, even when spoken, is not intelligible to someone who speaks only Korean. Later, Chinese characters adapted to the Korean language, Hanja (漢字), were used to write the language for most of Korea's history and are still used to a limited extent in South Korea, most prominently in the humanities and the study of historical texts.
Such changes were made after the Korean War and the ideological battle between the anti-Communist government in the South and North Korea's communism.[66][67]
"Global popularity of Korean language surges". The Korea Herald. 22 July 2012. Retrieved 16 August 2012.
Sohn, Ho-Min (2001) [1999]. The Korean Language. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521369435.
'~하다(~hada)' is pronounced as '~카다(~kada)'.example: "Why are you doing that?"
"Korean History". Korea.assembly.go.kr. Retrieved 26 April 2016. Korean Empire, Edict No. 1 – All official documents are to be written in Hangul, and not Chinese characters.
Grammatical morphemes may change shape depending on the preceding sounds. Examples include -eun/-neun (-은/-는) and -i/-ga (-이/-가).
In general, Korean lacks grammatical gender. As one of the few exceptions, the third-person singular pronoun has two different forms: 그 geu (male) and 그녀 geu-nyeo (female). Before 그녀 was invented in need of translating 'she' into Korean, 그 was the only third-person singular pronoun and had no grammatical gender. Its origin causes 그녀 never to be used in spoken Korean but appearing only in writing.
9North–South differences											Toggle North–South differences subsection																					9.1Pronunciation																											9.2Spelling																											9.3Spelling and pronunciation																											9.4Grammar																											9.5Punctuation																											9.6Vocabulary
Argüelles, Alexander (2007). Korean Newspaper Reader. Hyattsville, Maryland: Dunwoody Press.
Honorifics in traditional Korea were strictly hierarchical. The caste and estate systems possessed patterns and usages much more complex and stratified than those used today. The intricate structure of the Korean honorific system flourished in traditional culture and society. Honorifics in contemporary Korea are now used for people who are psychologically distant. Honorifics are also used for people who are superior in status. For example, older people, teachers, and employers.[21]
^ Silva, David J. (2008). "Missionary Contributions toward the Revaluation of Han'geul in Late 19th Century Korea" (PDF). International Journal of the Sociology of Language. 2008 (192): 57–74. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.527.8160. doi:10.1515/ijsl.2008.035. S2CID 43569773. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 March 2016.
"90년대 말투는 서울 사투리가 아니다?...서울 사투리 특징 3가지" [The way people talk in the 90s is not a Seoul dialect?...Three characteristics of Seoul dialect]. YouTube (in Korean). Archived from the original on 11 December 2021.
The vowel 'ㅔ(e)' is changed to 'ㅓ(eo)'.example: "Your daughter has come."
^ Kim-Renaud, Young-Key (1997). The Korean Alphabet: Its History and Structure. University of Hawaii Press. p. 15. ISBN 9780824817237. Retrieved 16 May 2018.
example: 1) "He/She/They said he/she/they put it outside." 2) "Would you like to eat this?" 3) "Okay."
^ Han, JiEun (18 March 2015). "한국어 방언 제대로 알기_'한국어 대방언과 일반론" (in Korean). [Dokseo Newspaper].
Korean is a member of the Koreanic family along with the Jeju language. Some linguists have included it in the Altaic family, but the core Altaic proposal itself has lost most of its prior support.[12] The Khitan language has several vocabulary items similar to Korean that are not found in other Mongolian or Tungusic languages, suggesting a Korean influence on Khitan.[13]
"Archive of Joseon's Hangul letters – A letter sent from Song Gyuryeom to slave Guityuk (1692)"
"DLI's language guidelines". AUSA. 1 August 2010. Retrieved 20 April 2021.
The ending '~거야(geoya)' ends briefly with '~거(geo)'example: "Where will you go?"
^ a b Korean language at Ethnologue (17th ed., 2013)
There are pronunciations, such as 'ㆉ(yoi)' and 'ㆌ(yui)', that you cannot hear in most regions of Korea.The vowel 'ㅠ(yu)' is changed to 'ㅟ(wi)' or 'ㆌ(yui)'.example: Vacation
* In the North, similar pronunciation is used whenever the hanja "的" is attached to a Sino-Korean word ending in ㄴ, ㅁ or ㅇ.
^ "Invest Korea Journal". Invest Korea Journal. Vol. 23. Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency. 1 January 2005. Retrieved 20 September 2016. They later devised three different systems for writing Korean with Chinese characters: Hyangchal, Gukyeol and Idu. These systems were similar to those developed later in Japan and were probably used as models by the Japanese.
Kim, Minju (1999). "Cross Adoption of language between different genders: The case of the Korean kinship terms hyeng and enni". Proceedings of the Fifth Berkeley Women and Language Conference. Berkeley: Berkeley Women and Language Group.
Lee, Iksop; Ramsey, S. Robert (1 January 2000). The Korean Language. SUNY Press. ISBN 978-0-7914-4832-8.
Jeolla dialect speakers, along with Gyeongsang dialect speakers, have high self-esteem in their local dialects.
"알고 싶은 한글". 국립국어원 (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Retrieved 4 December 2017.
Martin, Samuel E. (1990). "Morphological clues to the relationship of Japanese and Korean".In Baldi, Philip (ed.). Linguistic Change and Reconstruction Methodology. Trends in Linguistics: Studies and Monographs. Vol. 45. pp. 483–509.
^ Hannas, Wm C. (1997). Asia's Orthographic Dilemma. University of Hawaii Press. p. 57. ISBN 978-0-8248-1892-0. Retrieved 20 September 2016.
Korean is an agglutinative language. The Korean language is traditionally considered to have nine parts of speech. Modifiers generally precede the modified words, and in the case of verb modifiers, can be serially appended. The sentence structure or basic form of a Korean sentence is subject–object–verb (SOV), but the verb is the only required and immovable element and word order is highly flexible, as in many other agglutinative languages.
Korean syllable structure is (C)(G)V(C), consisting of an optional onset consonant, glide /j, w, ɰ/ and final coda /p, t, k, m, n, ŋ, l/ surrounding a core vowel.
Use a lot of '잉(ing)' at the end of words.example: "It's really pretty."
example: 1) "What are you talking about?" 2) "What are you doing?"
The vowel 'ㅏ(a)' is changed to 'ㅓ(eo)', and 'ㅓ(eo)' is changed to 'ㅡ(eu)'.example: 1) "It hurts." 2) "It's dirty"
Modern Korean descends from Middle Korean, which in turn descends from Old Korean, which descends from the Proto-Koreanic language which is generally suggested to have its linguistic homeland.[3][4] Whitman (2012) suggests that the proto-Koreans, already present in northern Korea, expanded into the southern part of the Korean Peninsula at around 300 BC and coexisted with the descendants of the Japonic Mumun cultivators (or assimilated them). Both had influence on each other and a later founder effect diminished the internal variety of both language families.[5]
The institute is sometimes compared to language and culture promotion organizations such as the King Sejong Institute. Unlike that organization, however, the TOPIK Korea Institute operates within established universities and colleges around the world, providing educational materials. In countries around the world, Korean embassies and cultural centers (한국문화원) administer TOPIK examinations.[70]
Pickles, Matt (11 July 2018). "K-pop drives boom in Korean language lessons". BBC News. Retrieved 12 July 2018.
Korean has numerous small local dialects (called mal (말) [literally 'speech'], saturi (사투리), or bang'eon (방언). The standard language (pyojun-eo or pyojun-mal) of both South Korea and North Korea is based on the dialect of the area around Seoul (which, as Hanyang, was the capital of Joseon-era Korea for 500 years), though the northern standard after the Korean War has been influenced by the dialect of P'yŏngyang. All dialects of Korean are similar to each other and largely mutually intelligible (with the exception of dialect-specific phrases or non-Standard vocabulary unique to dialects), though the dialect of Jeju Island is divergent enough to be sometimes classified as a separate language.[46][47][page needed][48][page needed] One of the more salient differences between dialects is the use of tone: speakers of the Seoul dialect make use of vowel length, whereas speakers of the Gyeongsang dialect maintain the pitch accent of Middle Korean. Some dialects are conservative, maintaining Middle Korean sounds (such as z, β, ə) which have been lost from the standard language, whereas others are highly innovative.
Gyeongsang dialect is the most common dialect in dramas among all Korean dialects except for Gyeonggi dialect.
Brown, L. (2015). "Expressive, Social and Gendered Meanings of Korean Honorifics". Korean Linguistics. 17 (2): 242–266. doi:10.1075/kl.17.2.04bro.
Vovin, Alexander (June 2017). "Koreanic loanwords in Khitan and their importance in the decipherment of the latter" (PDF). Acta Orientalia Academiae Scientiarum Hungaricae. 70 (2): 207–215. doi:10.1556/062.2017.70.2.4.
In North Korea, the regulatory body is the Language Institute of the Academy of Social Sciences (사회과학원 어학연구소; 社會科學院語學硏究所, Sahoe Gwahagweon Eohag Yeonguso). In South Korea, the regulatory body for Korean is the Seoul-based National Institute of the Korean Language, which was created by presidential decree on 23 January 1991.
^ Whitman, John (1 December 2011). "Northeast Asian Linguistic Ecology and the Advent of Rice Agriculture in Korea and Japan". Rice. 4 (3): 149–158. doi:10.1007/s12284-011-9080-0. ISSN 1939-8433.
Seoul dialect, which was the basis of Pyojuneo, is a subdialect of Gyeonggi dialect.
^ Palley, Marian Lief (December 1990). "Women's Status in South Korea: Tradition and Change". Asian Survey. 30 (12): 1136–1153. doi:10.2307/2644990. JSTOR 2644990.
In general, when transcribing place names, North Korea tends to use the pronunciation in the original language more than South Korea, which often uses the pronunciation in English. For example:
The exact proportion of Sino-Korean vocabulary is a matter of debate. Sohn (2001) stated 50–60%.[29] In 2006 the same author gives an even higher estimate of 65%.[31] Jeong Jae-do, one of the compilers of the dictionary Urimal Keun Sajeon, asserts that the proportion is not so high. He points out that Korean dictionaries compiled during the colonial period include many unused Sino-Korean words. In his estimation, the proportion of Sino-Korean vocabulary in the Korean language might be as low as 30%.[32]
Chang, Suk-jin (1996). Korean. Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company. ISBN 978-1-55619-728-4. (Volume 4 of the London Oriental and African Language Library).
^ "TOPIK 한국어능력시험". topik.go.kr (in Korean). Retrieved 24 October 2017.
^ Lee, Saekyun H.; HyunJoo Han. "Issues of Validity of SAT Subject Test Korea with Listening" (PDF). Applied Language Learning. 17 (1): 33–56. Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 June 2008.
^ Vovin, Alexander (June 2017). "Koreanic loanwords in Khitan and their importance in the decipherment of the latter" (PDF). Acta Orientalia Academiae Scientiarum Hungaricae. 70 (2): 207–215. doi:10.1556/062.2017.70.2.4.
^ Starostin, Sergei (1991). Altaiskaya problema i proishozhdeniye yaponskogo yazika [The Altaic Problem and the Origins of the Japanese Language] (PDF) (in Russian). Moscow: Nauka.
Lee, Kenneth B. (1997). Korea and East Asia: The Story of a Phoenix. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 90. ISBN 978-0-275-95823-7. Retrieved 26 December 2016.
Since the Korean War, through 70 years of separation, North–South differences have developed in standard Korean, including variations in pronunciation and vocabulary chosen, but these minor differences can be found in any of the Korean dialects, which are still largely mutually intelligible.
^ Montgomery, Charles (19 January 2016). "Korean Literature in Translation – CHAPTER FOUR: IT ALL CHANGES! THE CREATION OF HANGUL". ktlit.com. KTLit. Retrieved 20 April 2016. Hangul was sometimes known as the "language of the inner rooms," (a dismissive term used partly by yangban in an effort to marginalize the alphabet), or the domain of women.
The Korean names for the language are based on the names for Korea used in both South Korea and North Korea. The English word "Korean" is derived from Goryeo, which is thought to be the first Korean dynasty known to Western nations. Korean people in the former USSR refer to themselves as Koryo-saramcode: kor promoted to code: koand/or Koryo-incode: kor promoted to code: ko(literally, "Koryo/Goryeo person(s)"), and call the language Koryo-mal'code: kor promoted to code: ko . Some older English sources also use the spelling "Corea" to refer to the nation, and its inflected form for the language, culture and people, "Korea" becoming more popular in the late 1800s.[9]
Chungcheong dialect is considered to be the softest dialect to hear among all dialects of Korean.
^ a b The semivowels /w/ and /j/ are represented in Korean writing by modifications to vowel symbols (see below).
Like the case of "actor" and "actress," it also is possible to add a gender prefix for emphasis: biseo (비서 'secretary') is sometimes is combined with yeo (여 'female') to form yeo-biseo (여비서 'female secretary'); namja (남자 'man') often is added to ganhosa (간호사 'nurse') to form namja-ganhosa (남자간호사 'male nurse'). That is not about omission; it is about addition. Words without those prefixes neither sound awkward nor remind listeners of political correctness.
"Korea Newsreview". Korea News Review. Korea Herald, Incorporated. 1 January 1994. Retrieved 26 December 2016.
Vovin, Alexander (2010). Koreo-Japonica: A Re-evaluation of a Common Genetic Origin. Honolulu, HI: University of Hawai'i Press.
Hangul spelling does not reflect these assimilatory pronunciation rules, but rather maintains the underlying, partly historical morphology. Given this, it is sometimes hard to tell which actual phonemes are present in a certain word.
It is also the least existential dialect of all Korean dialects, and there has been little study regarding the dialect.
^ "Beliefs that bind". Korea JoongAng Daily. 23 October 2007. Archived from the original on 1 May 2013. Retrieved 16 August 2012.{{cite news}}:CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)
^ "Korea Newsreview". Korea News Review. Korea Herald, Incorporated. 1 January 1994. Retrieved 26 December 2016.
example: 1) "Have you eaten?" 2) "What did you eat?"
Vovin, Alexander (2013). "From Koguryo to Tamna: Slowly riding to the South with speakers of Proto-Korean". Korean Linguistics. 15 (2): 222–240. doi:10.1075/kl.15.2.03vov.
In North Korea, palatalization of /si/ is optional, and /t͡ɕ/ can be pronounced [z] between vowels.
Korean is spoken by the Korean people in both South Korea and North Korea, and by the Korean diaspora in many countries including the People's Republic of China, the United States, Japan, and Russia. Currently, Korean is the fourth most popular foreign language in China, following English, Japanese, and Russian.[68] Korean-speaking minorities exist in these states, but because of cultural assimilation into host countries, not all ethnic Koreans may speak it with native fluency.
Some vocabulary is different between the North and the South:
Korean is the official language of South Korea and North Korea. It, along with Mandarin Chinese, is also one of the two official languages of China's Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture.
Cho, Young A. (2006). "Gender Differences in Korean Speech".In Sohn, Ho-min (ed.). Korean Language in Culture and Society. University of Hawaii Press. p. 189.
Choo, Miho (2008). Using Korean: A Guide to Contemporary Usage. Cambridge University Press. p. 3. ISBN 978-1-139-47139-8.
The obsolete hypothesis that Korean could be related to Japanese has had some supporters due to some overlap in vocabulary and similar grammatical features that have been elaborated upon by such researchers as Samuel E. Martin[14] and Roy Andrew Miller.[15] Sergei Anatolyevich Starostin (1991) found about 25% of potential cognates in the Japanese–Korean 100-word Swadesh list.[16]Some linguists concerned with the issue between Japanese and Korean, including Alexander Vovin, have argued that the indicated similarities are not due to any genetic relationship, but rather to a sprachbund effect and heavy borrowing, especially from Ancient Korean into Western Old Japanese.[17] A good example might be Middle Korean sàm and Japanese asá, meaning "hemp".[18] This word seems to be a cognate, but although it is well attested in Western Old Japanese and Northern Ryukyuan languages, in Eastern Old Japanese it only occurs in compounds, and it is only present in three dialects of the Southern Ryukyuan language group. Also, the doublet wo meaning "hemp" is attested in Western Old Japanese and Southern Ryukyuan languages. It is thus plausible to assume a borrowed term.[19] (See Classification of the Japonic languages or Comparison of Japanese and Korean for further details on a possible relationship.)
"The Origins of the Transformation of the Defense Language Program"
For native English-speakers, Korean is generally considered to be one of the most difficult foreign languages to master despite the relative ease of learning Hangul. For instance, the United States' Defense Language Institute places Korean in Category IV with Japanese, Chinese (Mandarin and Cantonese), and Arabic, requiring 64 weeks of instruction (as compared to just 26 weeks for Category I languages like Italian, French,and Spanish)to bring an English-speaking student to a limited working level of proficiency in which they have "sufficient capability to meet routine social demands and limited job requirements" and "can deal with concrete topics in past, present, and future tense."[71][72] Similarly, the Foreign Service Institute's School of Language Studies places Korean in Category IV, the highest level of difficulty.[73]
이덕일. "[이덕일 사랑] 대~한민국". 조선닷컴 (in Korean). The Chosun Ilbo. Retrieved 2 July 2018.
* In the South, this rule only applies when it is attached to any single-character Sino-Korean word.
.mw-parser-output .citation{word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}^NOTEㅏ is closer to a near-open central vowel ([ɐ]), though ⟨a⟩ is still used for tradition.
When calling a superior person, always put the ending '요(yo)' after the noun.example: "Grandpa, come quickly."
Miller, Roy Andrew (1971). Japanese and the Other Altaic Languages. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 0-226-52719-0.
Unlike the Yeongseo dialect, Yeongdong dialect has a tone, such as Hamgyeong dialect and Gyeongsang dialect.
이기환 (30 August 2017). "[이기환의 흔적의 역사]국호논쟁의 전말…대한민국이냐 고려공화국이냐". 경향신문 (in Korean). The Kyunghyang Shinmun. Retrieved 2 July 2018.
"TOPIK | iSeodang Korean Language Center". Retrieved 15 September 2020.
"Korea Marks 558th Hangul Day". The Chosun Ilbo. 10 October 2004. Archived from the original on 19 February 2008. Retrieved 9 January 2008.
There are seven verb paradigms or speech levels in Korean, and each level has its own unique set of verb endings which are used to indicate the level of formality of a situation.[22] Unlike honorifics—which are used to show respect towards the referent (the person spoken of)—speech levels are used to show respect towards a speaker's or writer's audience (the person spoken to). The names of the seven levels are derived from the non-honorific imperative form of the verb 하다 (hada, "do") in each level, plus the suffix 체 ("che", Hanja: 體), which means "style".
^ "현판 글씨들이 한글이 아니라 한자인 이유는?". royalpalace.go.kr (in Korean). Archived from the original on 10 March 2017. Retrieved 26 April 2016.
^ "Korean is virtually two languages, and that's a big problem for North Korean defectors". Public Radio International. Retrieved 18 January 2016.
"Korean is virtually two languages, and that's a big problem for North Korean defectors"
Jeolla dialect is a dialect that feels rough along with Gyeongsang dialect. Especially it is well known for its swearing.
Choe, Sang-hun (30 August 2006). "Koreas: Divided by a common language". The New York Times. Retrieved 16 August 2012.
In North Korea and China, the language is most often called Joseon-malcode: kor promoted to code: ko , or more formally, Joseon-ocode: kor promoted to code: ko . This is taken from the North Korean name for Korea (Joseon), a name retained from the Joseon dynasty until the proclamation of the Korean Empire, which in turn was annexed by the Empire of Japan.
"An apparent-time study of an ongoing sound change in Seoul Korean: A prosodic account"
Yeon, Jaehoon; Brown, Lucien (2011). Korean: A Comprehensive Grammar. London, England: Routledge.
The Pyongan dialect, along with the Gyeonggi dialect, is also a dialect that greatly influenced the formation of Munhwaŏ.
example: "I've put it all away, so it'll be okay."
Cho, Sunghye (2017). Development of pitch contrast and Seoul Korean intonation (PhD). University of Pennsylvania.
"New interactive atlas adds two more endangered languages | United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization"
정(Jeong), 아란(Aran) (12 May 2020). "북한, 사투리·외래어·한자어 배격…"고유한 평양말 쓰자"" (in Korean). Yonhap News Agency.
However, in the case of '모대(modae)', it is also observed in South Chungcheong Province and some areas of southern Gyeonggi Province close to South Chungcheong Province.
Gyeongsang dialect has a tone like Hamgyeong dialect and Yeongdong dialect.
compounds coined in Korea or Japan and read using the Sino-Korean reading of Chinese characters.
"Korea Now". The Korea Herald. Vol. 29. 1 July 2000. Retrieved 20 September 2016.
^ "TOPIK | iSeodang Korean Language Center". Retrieved 15 September 2020.
North Korean vocabulary shows a tendency to prefer native Korean over Sino-Korean or foreign borrowings, especially with recent political objectives aimed at eliminating foreign influences on the Korean language in the North. In the early years, the North Korean government tried to eliminate Sino-Korean words. Consequently, South Korean may have several Sino-Korean or foreign borrowings which are not in North Korean.
Ramstedt, G. J. (1928). "Remarks on the Korean language". Mémoires de la Société Finno-Ougrienne. 58.
The core of the Korean vocabulary is made up of native Korean words. However, a significant proportion of the vocabulary, especially words that denote abstract ideas, are Sino-Korean words (of Chinese origin).[29] To a much lesser extent, some words have also been borrowed from Mongolian and other languages.[30] More recent loanwords are dominated by English.
'ㅔ(e)' is mainly changed to 'ㅣ(i)', and 'ㅐ(ae)' is mainly changed to 'ㅑ(ya)' or 'ㅕ(yeo)'.example: 1) "He/She/They said he/she/they put it outside." 2) "Would you like to eat this?" 3) "Okay."
In the North, guillemets (《 and 》) are the symbols used for quotes; in the South, quotation marks equivalent to the English ones (" and ") are standard (although 『 』 and 「 」 are also used).
Janhunen, Juha (2010). "Reconstructing the Language Map of Prehistorical Northeast Asia". Studia Orientalia (108). ... there are strong indications that the neighbouring Baekje state (in the southwest) was predominantly Japonic-speaking until it was linguistically Koreanized.
^ Chan, Tak-hung Leo (2003). One into Many: Translation and the Dissemination of Classical Chinese Literature. Rodopi. p. 183. ISBN 978-9042008151. Retrieved 26 December 2016.
^ "Global popularity of Korean language surges". The Korea Herald. 22 July 2012. Retrieved 16 August 2012.
All obstruents (plosives, affricates, fricatives) at the end of a word are pronounced with no audible release, [p̚, t̚, k̚].
/l/ becomes alveolar flap [ɾ] between vowels, and [l] or [ɭ] at the end of a syllable or next to another /l/. Note that a written syllable-final 'ㄹ', when followed by a vowel or a glide (i.e., when the next character starts with 'ㅇ'), migrates to the next syllable and thus becomes [ɾ].
"Issues of Validity of SAT Subject Test Korea with Listening"
^ "'서울 사투리?' 방송 인터뷰 모음.zip" ['Seoul dialect?' Collection of interviews.zip]. YouTube (in Korean). Archived from the original on 11 December 2021.
"Korean language test-takers pass 1 mil". The Korea Times. 20 January 2013. Retrieved 25 January 2013.
Vovin (2008), pp. 211–212. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFVovin2008 (help)
^ Lee, Iksop; Ramsey, S. Robert (1 January 2000). The Korean Language. SUNY Press. ISBN 978-0-7914-4832-8.
^ "Korea Marks 558th Hangul Day". The Chosun Ilbo. 10 October 2004. Archived from the original on 19 February 2008. Retrieved 9 January 2008.
The Hamgyŏng dialect is a dialect with tones like the Yeongdong dialect and the Gyeongsang dialect.
^ Janhunen, Juha (2010). "Reconstructing the Language Map of Prehistorical Northeast Asia". Studia Orientalia (108). ... there are strong indications that the neighbouring Baekje state (in the southwest) was predominantly Japonic-speaking until it was linguistically Koreanized.
/s/ is aspirated [sʰ] and becomes an alveolo-palatal [ɕʰ] before [j] or [i] for most speakers (but see North–South differences in the Korean language). This occurs with the tense fricative and all the affricates as well. At the end of a syllable, /s/ changes to /t/ (example: beoseot (버섯) 'mushroom').
Among the Gyeonggi dialects, the best known dialect along with Seoul dialect is Suwon dialect. The dialects of Suwon and its surrounding areas are quite different from those of northern Gyeonggi Province and surrounding areas of Seoul.[62]
Many Jeolla dialect speakers can be found not only in Jeolla Province but also in Seoul and Gyeonggi Province, because Jeolla Province itself was alienated from development, so many Jeolla residents came to Seoul and Gyeonggi Province.
Kang, Yoonjung; Han, Sungwoo (September 2013). "Tonogenesis in early Contemporary Seoul Korean: A longitudinal case study". Lingua. 134: 62–74. doi:10.1016/j.lingua.2013.06.002.
Traditionally, coastal areas of Gyeonggi, particularly Incheon, Ganghwa, Ongjin and Gimpo have been recorded to have some influence from the dialects of Hwanghae and Chungcheong, due to historic intermixing with the two regions, as well as geographical proximity. This old influence, however, has largely died out among most middle aged and younger locals from the region.
It is also the most spoken dialect by North Korean defectors in South Korea, as about 80% of them are from Hamgyŏng Province.
Measured as of 2020. The estimated 2020 combined population of North and South Korea was about 77 million.
Martin, Samuel E. (1966). "Lexical Evidence Relating Japanese to Korean". Language. 42 (2): 185–251. doi:10.2307/411687. JSTOR 411687.
Hannas, Wm C. (1997). Asia's Orthographic Dilemma. University of Hawaii Press. p. 57. ISBN 978-0-8248-1892-0. Retrieved 20 September 2016.
"Koreanic loanwords in Khitan and their importance in the decipherment of the latter"
^ Pickles, Matt (11 July 2018). "K-pop drives boom in Korean language lessons". BBC News. Retrieved 12 July 2018.
Miller, Roy Andrew (1996). Languages and History: Japanese, Korean and Altaic. Oslo, Norway: Institute for Comparative Research in Human Culture. ISBN 974-8299-69-4.
^ Raugh, Harold E. "The Origins of the Transformation of the Defense Language Program" (PDF). Applied Language Learning. 16 (2): 1–12. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 June 2007. Retrieved 9 January 2008.
Hwanghae dialect was originally more similar to the Gyeonggi dialect, but as the division between North and South Korea prolonged, it is now heavily influenced by the Pyongan dialect.
In mainland China, following the establishment of diplomatic relations with South Korea in 1992, the term Cháoxiǎnyǔ or the short form Cháoyǔ has normally been used to refer to the standard language of North Korea and Yanbian, whereas Hánguóyǔ or the short form Hányǔ is used to refer to the standard language of South Korea.[citation needed]
In question, '노(no)' and '나(na)' are mainly used. Use '나(na)' when asking for a short answer, and '노(no)' when asking for a specific answer.example: 1) "Have you eaten?" 2) "What did you eat?"
Between two people of asymmetric status in Korean society, people tend to emphasize differences in status for the sake of solidarity. Koreans prefer to use kinship terms, rather than any other terms of reference.[25] In traditional Korean society, women have long been in disadvantaged positions. Korean social structure traditionally was a patriarchically dominated family system that emphasized the maintenance of family lines. That structure has tended to separate the roles of women from those of men.[26]
(These languages are very poorly attested and their affiliation is uncertain.)
Because of such a prevalence of English in modern South Korean culture and society, lexical borrowing is inevitable. English-derived Korean, or "Konglish" (콩글리쉬), is increasingly used. The vocabulary of the South Korean dialect of the Korean language is roughly 5% loanwords (excluding Sino-Korean vocabulary).[33] However, due to North Korea's isolation, such influence is lacking in North Korean speech.
Song, J.-J. (2005). The Korean Language: Structure, Use and Context. London, England: Routledge.
example: "Come early because you have to cultivate the field."
(Some areas on the west coast of South Chungcheong Province)
Raugh, Harold E. "The Origins of the Transformation of the Defense Language Program" (PDF). Applied Language Learning. 16 (2): 1–12. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 June 2007. Retrieved 9 January 2008.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Hölzl, Andreas (29 August 2018). A typology of questions in Northeast Asia and beyond: An ecological perspective. Language Science Press. p. 25. ISBN 9783961101023.
^ 이기환 (30 August 2017). "[이기환의 흔적의 역사]국호논쟁의 전말…대한민국이냐 고려공화국이냐". 경향신문 (in Korean). The Kyunghyang Shinmun. Retrieved 2 July 2018.
^ 이덕일. "[이덕일 사랑] 대~한민국". 조선닷컴 (in Korean). The Chosun Ilbo. Retrieved 2 July 2018.
a rapid increase in Korean language education thanks to the spread of the culture (hallyu), an increase in international marriage, the expansion of Korean enterprises into overseas markets, and enforcement of employment licensing system;
^ Choe, Sang-hun (30 August 2006). "Koreas: Divided by a common language". The New York Times. Retrieved 16 August 2012.
Lee, Ki-Moon; Ramsey, S. Robert (2011). A History of the Korean Language. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-66189-8.
Whitman, John B. (1985). The Phonological Basis for the Comparison of Japanese and Korean (PhD thesis). Cambridge, MA: Harvard University. Unpublished Harvard University PhD dissertation.
'-누만(-numan)' is often used as an exclamation sentence.example: "It got a lot colder"
^ 정(Jeong), 아란(Aran) (12 May 2020). "북한, 사투리·외래어·한자어 배격…"고유한 평양말 쓰자"" (in Korean). Yonhap News Agency.
Koryo-Mal, the moribund variety of Korean spoken mainly by elderly Koryo-saramcode: kor promoted to code: koin Central Asia and Russia, is descended from the Northern Hamgyong Dialect, as well as the Yukchin Dialect.
^ "Archive of Joseon's Hangul letters – A letter sent from Song Gyuryeom to slave Guityuk (1692)".
In the 15th century, King Sejong the Great personally developed an alphabetic featural writing system known today as Hangul.[6][7] He felt that Hanja was inadequate to write Korean and that caused its very restricted use; Hangul was designed to either aid in reading Hanja or to replace Hanja entirely. Introduced in the document Hunminjeongeumcode: kor promoted to code: ko , it was called eonmuncode: kor promoted to code: ko(colloquial script) and quickly spread nationwide to increase literacy in Korea. Hangul was widely used by all the Korean classes but was often treated as amkeulcode: kor promoted to code: ko("script for women") and disregarded by privileged elites, and Hanja was regarded as jinseocode: kor promoted to code: ko("true text"). Consequently, official documents were always written in Hanja during the Joseon era. Since few people could understand Hanja, Korean kings sometimes released public notices entirely written in Hangul as early as the 16th century for all Korean classes, including uneducated peasants and slaves. By the 17th century, the elite class of Yangbancode: kor promoted to code: kohad exchanged Hangul letters with slaves, which suggests a high literacy rate of Hangul during the Joseon era.[8]
Dialects of Suwon and its surrounding areas.The ending '~거야(geoya)' ends briefly with '~거(geo)'example: "Where will you go?"
Gyeongsang dialect is also known as the most rough and macho-like dialect of all South Korean dialects.
Kim, Mi-Ryoung (2013). "Tonogenesis in contemporary Korean with special reference to the onset-tone interaction and the loss of a consonant opposition". The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America. 133 (3570): 3570. Bibcode:2013ASAJ..133.3570K. doi:10.1121/1.4806535.
There are pronunciations, such as 'ㆉ(yoi)' and 'ㆌ(yui)', that you cannot hear in most regions of Korea.
The vowel 'ㅏ(a)' and 'ㅓ(eo)' are sometimes changed to 'ㅐ(ae)'.example: 1) Sesame oil 2) "You look like a fool."
Hedges soften an assertion, and their function as a euphemism in women's speech in terms of discourse difference. Women are expected to add nasal sounds neyng, neym, ney-e, more frequently than men do in the last syllable. Often, l is often added in women's for female stereotypes and so igeolo (이거로 'this thing') becomes igeollo (이걸로 'this thing') to refer to a lack of confidence and passive construction.[21][page needed]
example: 1) Sesame oil 2) "You look like a fool."
Starostin, Sergei A.; Dybo, Anna V.; Mudrak, Oleg A. (2003). Etymological Dictionary of the Altaic Languages. Leiden, South Holland: Brill Academic Publishers. ISBN 90-04-13153-1. In 3 volumes.
Another crucial difference between men and women is the tone and pitch of their voices and how they affect the perception of politeness. Men learn to use an authoritative falling tone; in Korean culture, a deeper voice is associated with being more polite. In addition to the deferential speech endings being used, men are seen as more polite as well as impartial, and professional. Compared to women who use a rising tone in conjunction with -yo (요), they are not perceived to be as polite as men. The -yo (요) also indicates uncertainty since the ending has many prefixes that indicate uncertainty and questioning. The deferential ending does not have any prefixes and do can indicate uncertainty. The -hamnida (합니다) ending is the most polite and formal form of Korea, and the -yo (요) ending is less polite and formal, which causes the perception of women as less professional.[27][28]
^ Hudson, Mark J.; Robbeets, Martine (2020). "Archaeolinguistic Evidence for the Farming/Language Dispersal of Koreanic". Evolutionary Human Sciences. 2. e52. doi:10.1017/ehs.2020.49.
Some words have different spellings and pronunciations in the North and the South. Most of the official languages of North Korea are from the northwest (Pyeongan dialect), and the standard language of South Korea is the standard language (Seoul language close to Gyeonggi dialect). some of which were given in the "Phonology" section above:
^ "Languages". United States Department of State. Retrieved 27 May 2016.
Kanno, Hiroomi; Society for Korean Linguistics in Japan, eds. (1987). 『朝鮮語を学ぼう』 [Chōsengo o manabō] (in Japanese). Tokyo: Sanshūsha. ISBN 4-384-01506-2.
"Archive of Joseon's Hangul letters – A letter sent from Song Gyuryeom to slave Guityuk (1692)".
The relationship between a speaker/writer and their subject and audience is paramount in Korean grammar. The relationship between the speaker/writer and subject referent is reflected in honorifics, whereas that between speaker/writer and audience is reflected in speech level.
A typology of questions in Northeast Asia and beyond: An ecological perspective
When representing the past, there is a dropout phenomenon of 'ㅆ(ss/tt)'.example: "I brought this."
Chungcheong dialect was the most commonly used dialect by aristocrats(Yangban) during the Joseon Dynasty, along with dialects in northern Gyeongsang Province.
the need for general support for overseas Korean language education based on a successful domestic language education program.
Nonetheless, the separation of the two Korean states has resulted in increasing differences among the dialects that have emerged over time. Since the allies of the newly founded nations split the Korean peninsula in half after 1945, the newly formed Korean nations have since borrowed vocabulary extensively from their respective allies. As the Soviet Union helped industrialize North Korea and establish it as a communist state, the North Koreans therefore borrowed a number of Russian terms. Likewise, since the United States helped South Korea extensively to develop militarily, economically, and politically, South Koreans therefore borrowed extensively from English.
The vowel 'ㅠ(yu)' is changed to 'ㅟ(wi)' or 'ㆌ(yui)'.example: Vacation
Argüelles, Alexander; Kim, Jongrok (2004). A Handbook of Korean Verbal Conjugation. Hyattsville, Maryland: Dunwoody Press.
/h/ may become a bilabial [ɸ] before [o] or [u], a palatal [ç] before [j] or [i], a velar [x] before [ɯ], a voiced [ɦ] between voiced sounds, and a [h] elsewhere.
Some words are spelled differently by the North and the South, but the pronunciations are the same.
10Geographic distribution											Toggle Geographic distribution subsection																					10.1Official status																											10.2King Sejong Institute																											10.3TOPIK Korea Institute
There is substantial evidence for a history of extensive dialect levelling, or even convergent evolution or intermixture of two or more originally distinct linguistic stocks, within the Korean language and its dialects. Many Korean dialects have basic vocabulary that is etymologically distinct from vocabulary of identical meaning in Standard Korean or other dialects, for example "garlic chives" translated into Gyeongsang dialect /t͡ɕʌŋ.ɡu.d͡ʑi/ (정구지; jeongguji) but in Standard Korean, it is /puːt͡ɕʰu/ (부추; buchu). This suggests that the Korean Peninsula may have at one time been much more linguistically diverse than it is at present.[53] See also the Japanese–Koguryoic languages hypothesis.
Montgomery, Charles (19 January 2016). "Korean Literature in Translation – CHAPTER FOUR: IT ALL CHANGES! THE CREATION OF HANGUL". ktlit.com. KTLit. Retrieved 20 April 2016. Hangul was sometimes known as the "language of the inner rooms," (a dismissive term used partly by yangban in an effort to marginalize the alphabet), or the domain of women.
The TOPIK Korea Institute is a lifelong educational center affiliated with a variety of Korean universities in Seoul, South Korea, whose aim is to promote Korean language and culture, support local Korean teaching internationally, and facilitate cultural exchanges.
Korean society's prevalent attitude towards men being in public (outside the home) and women living in private still exists today. For instance, the word for husband is bakkat-yangban (바깥양반 'outside' 'nobleman'), but a husband introduces his wife as an|saram (안사람 an 'inside' 'person'). Also in kinship terminology, we (외 'outside' or 'wrong') is added for maternal grandparents, creating oe-harabeoji and oe-hal-meoni (외할아버지, 외할머니 'grandfather and grandmother'), with different lexicons for males and females and patriarchal society revealed. Further, in interrogatives to an addressee of equal or lower status, Korean men tend to use haennya (했냐? 'did it?’)' in aggressive masculinity, but women use haenni (했니? 'did it?’)' as a soft expression.[27] However, there are exceptions. Korean society used the question endings -ni (니) and -nya (냐), the former prevailing among women and men until a few decades ago. In fact, -nya (냐) was characteristic of the Jeolla and Chungcheong dialects. However, since the 1950s, large numbers of people have moved to Seoul from Chungcheong and Jeolla, and they began to influence the way men speak. Recently, women also have used the -nya (냐). As for -ni (니), it is usually used toward people to be polite even to someone not close or younger. As for -nya (냐), it is used mainly to close friends regardless of gender.
The Korean alphabet was denounced and looked down upon by the yangban aristocracy, who deemed it too easy to learn,[39][40] but it gained widespread use among the common class[41] and was widely used to print popular novels which were enjoyed by the common class.[42] With growing Korean nationalism in the 19th century, the Gabo Reformists' push, and the promotion of Hangul in schools,[43] in 1894, Hangul displaced Hanja as Korea's national script.[44] Hanja are still used to a certain extent in South Korea, where they are sometimes combined with Hangul, but that method is slowly declining in use even though students learn Hanja in school.[45]
Chosun Ilbo / Donga Ilbo / JoongAng Ilbo / Hankook Ilbo / Kyunghyang Shinmun / The Hankyoreh
The language used in the North and the South exhibit differences in pronunciation, spelling, grammar and vocabulary.[64]
One difference between the pronunciation standards of North and South Korea is the treatment of initial [ɾ], and initial [n]. For example,
"Korean Literature in Translation – CHAPTER FOUR: IT ALL CHANGES! THE CREATION OF HANGUL"
When talking about someone superior in status, a speaker or writer usually uses special nouns or verb endings to indicate the subject's superiority. Generally, someone is superior in status if they are an older relative, a stranger of roughly equal or greater age, or an employer, teacher, customer, or the like. Someone is equal or inferior in status if they are a younger stranger, student, employee, or the like. Nowadays, there are special endings which can be used on declarative, interrogative, and imperative sentences, and both honorific or normal sentences.
^ Koerner, E. F. K.; Asher, R. E. (28 June 2014). Concise History of the Language Sciences: From the Sumerians to the Cognitivists. Elsevier. p. 54. ISBN 978-1-4832-9754-5. Retrieved 13 October 2016.
Rybatzki, Volker (2003). "Middle Mongol".In Janhunen, Juha (ed.). The Mongolic languages. London, England: Routledge. pp. 47–82. ISBN 0-7007-1133-3.
However, one can still find stronger contrasts between genders within Korean speech. Some examples of this can be seen in: (1) the softer tone used by women in speech; (2) a married woman introducing herself as someone's mother or wife, not with her own name; (3) the presence of gender differences in titles and occupational terms (for example, a sajang is a company president, and yŏsajang is a female company president); (4) females sometimes using more tag questions and rising tones in statements, also seen in speech from children.[24]
^ Chen, Jiangping (18 January 2016). Multilingual Access and Services for Digital Collections. ABC-CLIO. p. 66. ISBN 978-1-4408-3955-9. Retrieved 20 September 2016.
Areas in Northwest Hwanghae, such as Ongjin County in Hwanghae Province, pronounced 'ㅈ' (j'), originally pronounced the letter more closely to tz. However, this has largely disappeared.The rest is almost similar to the Gyeonggi and Pyongan dialect.
^ "Korean language test-takers pass 1 mil". The Korea Times. 20 January 2013. Retrieved 25 January 2013.
It is also the North Korean dialect best known to South Koreans.
"Northeast Asian Linguistic Ecology and the Advent of Rice Agriculture in Korea and Japan"
^ Lightfoot, David (12 January 1999). Development of Language. Wiley. ISBN 978-0-631-21059-7.
^ Kim, Jin-su (11 September 2009). 우리말 70%가 한자말? 일제가 왜곡한 거라네 [Our language is 70% hanja? Japanese Empire distortion]. The Hankyoreh (in Korean). Retrieved 11 September 2009. The dictionary mentioned is우리말 큰 사전. Seoul: Hangul Hakhoe. 1992. OCLC 27072560.
Words that are written the same way may be pronounced differently (such as the examples below). The pronunciations below are given in Revised Romanization, McCune–Reischauer and modified Hangul (what the Korean characters would be if one were to write the word as pronounced).
Plosive sounds /p, t, k/ become nasals [m, n, ŋ] before nasal sounds.
When talking, the sentence often ends with '~다 아이가(~da aiga)'.example: "You said so."
Lightfoot, David (12 January 1999). Development of Language. Wiley. ISBN 978-0-631-21059-7.
Han, JiEun (18 March 2015). "한국어 방언 제대로 알기_'한국어 대방언과 일반론" (in Korean). [Dokseo Newspaper].
^ Vovin, Alexander (2013). "From Koguryo to Tamna: Slowly riding to the South with speakers of Proto-Korean". Korean Linguistics. 15 (2): 222–240. doi:10.1075/kl.15.2.03vov.
Women use more linguistic markers such as exclamation eomeo (어머 'oh') and eojjeom (어쩜 'what a surprise') than men do in cooperative communication.[27]
^ a b c Sohn (2001), Section 1.5.3 "Korean vocabulary", pp. 12–13
The ending '겠(gett)' is mainly pronounced as '겄(geott)', and the ending'까(kka)' is mainly pronounced as '께(kke)'.example: "I've put it all away, so it'll be okay."
Kim, Jin-su (11 September 2009). 우리말 70%가 한자말? 일제가 왜곡한 거라네 [Our language is 70% hanja? Japanese Empire distortion]. The Hankyoreh (in Korean). Retrieved 11 September 2009. The dictionary mentioned is우리말 큰 사전. Seoul: Hangul Hakhoe. 1992. OCLC 27072560.
Whitman (1985), p. 232, also found in Martin (1966), p. 233
"현판 글씨들이 한글이 아니라 한자인 이유는?". royalpalace.go.kr (in Korean). Archived from the original on 10 March 2017. Retrieved 26 April 2016.
정(Jeong), 상도(Sangdo) (31 March 2017). "도청도설 부추와 정구지" (in Korean). Kookje Newspaper.
Argüelles, Alexander (2010). North Korean Reader. Hyattsville, Maryland: Dunwoody Press.
Today, Hanja is largely unused in everyday life because of its inconvenience, but it is still important for historical and linguistic studies. Neither South Korea nor North Korea opposes the learning of Hanja, but they are not officially used in North Korea anymore, and their usage in South Korea is mainly reserved for specific circumstances like newspapers, scholarly papers, and disambiguation.
Sometimes sounds may be inserted instead. Examples include -eul/-reul (-을/-를), -euro/-ro (-으로/-로), -eseo/-seo (-에서/-서), -ideunji/-deunji (-이든지/-든지) and -iya/-ya (-이야/-야).
The vast majority of loanwords other than Sino-Korean come from modern times, approximately 90% of which are from English.[29] Many words have also been borrowed from Western languages such as German via Japanese (아르바이트 (areubaiteu) "part-time job", 알레르기 (allereugi) "allergy", 기브스 (gibseu or gibuseu) "plaster cast used for broken bones"). Some Western words were borrowed indirectly via Japanese during the Japanese occupation of Korea, taking a Japanese sound pattern, for example "dozen" > ダース dāsu > 다스 daseu. Most indirect Western borrowings are now written according to current "Hangulization" rules for the respective Western language, as if borrowed directly. There are a few more complicated borrowings such as "German(y)" (see names of Germany), the first part of whose endonym Deutschland [ˈdɔʏtʃlant] the Japanese approximated using the kanji 獨逸doitsu that were then accepted into the Korean language by their Sino-Korean pronunciation: 獨 dok + 逸 il = Dogil. In South Korean official use, a number of other Sino-Korean country names have been replaced with phonetically oriented "Hangeulizations" of the countries' endonyms or English names.
Gyeonggi dialect is the least existential dialect in South Korea, and most people do not know that Gyeonggi dialect itself exists. So, Gyeonggi-do residents say they only use standard language, and many people know the language spoken by Gyeonggi-do residents as standard language in other regions.
Famously, natives of Southern Jeolla pronounce certain combinations of vowels in Korean more softly, or omit the latter vowel entirely.
^ 정(Jeong), 상도(Sangdo) (31 March 2017). "도청도설 부추와 정구지" (in Korean). Kookje Newspaper.
Janhunen, Juha (1996). Manchuria: An Ethnic History. Finno-Ugrian Society. ISBN 978-951-9403-84-7.
Choi, Jiyoun; Kim, Sahyang; Cho, Taehong (22 October 2020). "An apparent-time study of an ongoing sound change in Seoul Korean: A prosodic account". PLOS ONE. 15 (10): e0240682. Bibcode:2020PLoSO..1540682C. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0240682. PMC 7580931. PMID 33091043.
^ Source: Unescopress. "New interactive atlas adds two more endangered languages | United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization". Unesco.org. Retrieved 11 December 2013.
Silva, David J. (2008). "Missionary Contributions toward the Revaluation of Han'geul in Late 19th Century Korea" (PDF). International Journal of the Sociology of Language. 2008 (192): 57–74. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.527.8160. doi:10.1515/ijsl.2008.035. S2CID 43569773. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 March 2016.
Chan, Tak-hung Leo (2003). One into Many: Translation and the Dissemination of Classical Chinese Literature. Rodopi. p. 183. ISBN 978-9042008151. Retrieved 26 December 2016.
Hulbert, Homer B. (1905). A Comparative Grammar of the Korean Language and the Dravidian Dialects in India. Seoul.
Originally, northern Gyeonggi Province, including Seoul, received influence from Northern dialects (Areas of Kaeseong along the Ryesong River, or Ganghwa Island, received an especially high amount of influence from the Hwanghae dialect), while southern Gyeonggi Province was influenced from Chungcheong dialect. However, as a result of the prolonged division and the large number of migrants from Chungcheong Province and Jeolla Province to Seoul, the current way of speaking in Gyeonggi has been greatly influenced by Chungcheong and Jeolla.
Recently, both North and South Korea's usage rate of the regional dialect have been decreasing due to social factors. In North Korea, the central government is urging its citizens to use Munhwaŏ (the standard language of North Korea), to deter the usage of foreign language and Chinese characters: Kim Jong-un said in a speech "if your language in life is cultural and polite, you can achieve harmony and comradely unity among people."[57] In South Korea, due to relocation in the population to Seoul to find jobs and the usage of standard language in education and media, the prevalence of regional dialects has decreased.[58] Moreover, internationally, due to the increasing popularity of K-pop, the Seoul standard language has become more widely taught and used.
^ "90년대 말투는 서울 사투리가 아니다?...서울 사투리 특징 3가지" [The way people talk in the 90s is not a Seoul dialect?...Three characteristics of Seoul dialect]. YouTube (in Korean). Archived from the original on 11 December 2021.
The differences among northern and southern dialects have become so significant that many North Korean defectors reportedly have had great difficulty communicating with South Koreans after having initially settled into South Korea. In response to the diverging vocabularies, an app called Univoca was designed to help North Korean defectors learn South Korean terms by translating them into North Korean ones.[54] More information can be found on the page North-South differences in the Korean language.
Gyeongsang dialect is the best known dialect of all South Korean dialects. This is known not only by Koreans but also by foreigners interested in Korean culture.
^ Kim, Minju (1999). "Cross Adoption of language between different genders: The case of the Korean kinship terms hyeng and enni". Proceedings of the Fifth Berkeley Women and Language Conference. Berkeley: Berkeley Women and Language Group.
^ "Korean History". Korea.assembly.go.kr. Retrieved 26 April 2016. Korean Empire, Edict No. 1 – All official documents are to be written in Hangul, and not Chinese characters.
"Invest Korea Journal". Invest Korea Journal. Vol. 23. Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency. 1 January 2005. Retrieved 20 September 2016. They later devised three different systems for writing Korean with Chinese characters: Hyangchal, Gukyeol and Idu. These systems were similar to those developed later in Japan and were probably used as models by the Japanese.
^ Kanno, Hiroomi; Society for Korean Linguistics in Japan, eds. (1987). 『朝鮮語を学ぼう』 [Chōsengo o manabō] (in Japanese). Tokyo: Sanshūsha. ISBN 4-384-01506-2.
^ "알고 싶은 한글". 국립국어원 (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Retrieved 4 December 2017.
In some areas of the southern part of Gyeonggi Province, which is close to Chungcheong Province, such as Pyeongtaek and Anseong, it is also included in the Chungcheong dialect area. Local residents living in these areas also admit that they speak Chungcheong dialect.
According to Google's NGram English corpus of 2015, "Google Ngram Viewer".
"Missionary Contributions toward the Revaluation of Han'geul in Late 19th Century Korea"
Modern Korean is written with spaces between words, a feature not found in Chinese or Japanese (except when Japanese is written exclusively in hiragana, as in children's books). The marks used for Korean punctuation are almost identical to Western ones. Traditionally, Korean was written in columns, from top to bottom, right to left, like traditional Chinese. However, the syllabic blocks are now usually written in rows, from left to right, top to bottom, like English.
^ "Korea Now". The Korea Herald. Vol. 29. 1 July 2000. Retrieved 20 September 2016.
In the case of Chungcheong dialect, it is a dialect belonging to the central dialect along with Gyeonggi, Gangwon, and Hwanghae dialects, but some scholars view it as a separate dialect separated from the central dialect. In addition, some scholars classify southern Chungcheong dialect regions such as Daejeon, Sejong, and Gongju as the southern dialect such as Jeolla and Gyeongsang dialects.
Argüelles, Alexander; Kim, Jong-Rok (2000). A Historical, Literary and Cultural Approach to the Korean Language. Seoul, South Korea: Hollym.
Lee, Saekyun H.; HyunJoo Han. "Issues of Validity of SAT Subject Test Korea with Listening" (PDF). Applied Language Learning. 17 (1): 33–56. Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 June 2008.
^ Janhunen, Juha (1996). Manchuria: An Ethnic History. Finno-Ugrian Society. ISBN 978-951-9403-84-7.
Hanja Explorer, a tool to visualize and study Korean vocabulary
The three levels with high politeness (very formally polite, formally polite, casually polite) are generally grouped together as jondaenmal (존댓말), whereas the two levels with low politeness (formally impolite, casually impolite) are banmal (반말) in Korean. The remaining two levels (neutral formality with neutral politeness, high formality with neutral politeness) are neither polite nor impolite.
Palley, Marian Lief (December 1990). "Women's Status in South Korea: Tradition and Change". Asian Survey. 30 (12): 1136–1153. doi:10.2307/2644990. JSTOR 2644990.
^ Whitman (1985), p. 232, also found in Martin (1966), p. 233
Korean (South Korean: 한국어, hangugeo; North Korean: 조선말, chosŏnmal) is the native language for about 80 million people, mostly of Korean descent.[a][1] It is the official and national language of both North Korea and South Korea (geographically Korea), but over the past 75 years of political division, the two Koreas have developed some noticeable vocabulary differences. Beyond Korea, the language is recognised as a minority language in parts of China, namely Jilin Province, and specifically Yanbian Prefecture and Changbai County. It is also spoken by Sakhalin Koreans in parts of Sakhalin, the Russian island just north of Japan, and by the Koryo-saramcode: kor promoted to code: koin parts of Central Asia.[2] The language has a few extinct relatives which—along with the Jeju language (Jejuan) of Jeju Island and Korean itself—form the compact Koreanic language family. Even so, Jejuan and Korean are not mutually intelligible with each other. The linguistic homeland of Korean is suggested to be somewhere in contemporary Northeast China.[2] The hierarchy of the society from which the language originates deeply influences the language, leading to a system of speech levels and honorifics indicative of the formality of any given situation.
Established pursuant to Article 9, Section 2, of the Framework Act on the National Language, the King Sejong Institute[69] is a public institution set up to coordinate the government's project of propagating Korean language and culture; it also supports the King Sejong Institute, which is the institution's overseas branch. The King Sejong Institute was established in response to:
Cho, Sungdai; Whitman, John (2020). Korean: A Linguistic Introduction. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-51485-9.
Koerner, E. F. K.; Asher, R. E. (28 June 2014). Concise History of the Language Sciences: From the Sumerians to the Cognitivists. Elsevier. p. 54. ISBN 978-1-4832-9754-5. Retrieved 13 October 2016.
The ending '-니까(-nikka)' is changed to '-길래(-gilrae)'.example: "Come early because you have to cultivate the field."
Martin, Samuel E. (2006). A Reference Grammar of Korean: A Complete Guide to the Grammar and History of the Korean Language – 韓國語文法總監. Tuttle Publishing. ISBN 978-0-8048-3771-2.
^ Awde, Nicholas; Galaev, Muhammad (22 May 2014). Chechen-English English-Chechen Dictionary and Phrasebook. Routledge. ISBN 9781136802331 – via Google Books.
One treated example is the Ghomala' language of Western Cameroon, which has been said to have a [1+2+3] first-person plural pronoun, but a more recent analysis by Wiesemann (2003) indicates that such pronouns may be limited to ceremonial use.
It is, of course, possible in any language to express the idea of clusivity semantically, and many languages provide common forms that clarify the ambiguity of their first person pronoun (English "the rest of us", Italian noialtri). A language with a true clusivity distinction, however, does not provide a first-person plural with indefinite clusivity in which the clusivity of the pronoun is ambiguous; rather, speakers are forced to specify by the choice of pronoun or inflection, whether they are including the addressee or not. That rules out most European languages, for example. Clusivity is nonetheless a very common language feature overall. Some languages with more than one plural number make the clusivity distinction only in, for example, the dual but not in the greater plural, but other languages make it in all numbers. In the table below, the plural forms are the ones preferentially listed.
Mary Haas. 1969. "Exclusive" and "inclusive": A look at early usage. International Journal of American Linguistics 35:1-6. JSTOR 1263878.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Filimonova, Elena (30 November 2005). Clusivity: Typology and case studies of the inclusive-exclusive distinction. John Benjamins Publishing. ISBN 9789027293886 – via Google Books.
Comrie, Bernard. 1980."Review of Greenberg, Joseph H. (ed.), Universals of human language, Volume 3: Word Structure (1978)".Language 56: p837, as quoted in Simon 2005.Quote: One pair of combinations not discussed is the opposition between 2nd person non-singular inclusive (i.e. including some third person) and exclusive, which is attested in Southeast Ambrym.
Thompson, E. D. 1983. "Kunama: phonology and noun phrase" in M. Lionel Bender (ed.): Nilo-Saharan Language Studies, pp. 280–322. East Lansing: African Studies Center, Michigan State University.
^ Mary Haas. 1969. "Exclusive" and "inclusive": A look at early usage. International Journal of American Linguistics 35:1-6. JSTOR 1263878.
Henderson, T.S.T. 1985. "Who are we, anyway? A study of personal pronoun systems". Linguistische Berichte 98: p308, as quoted in Simon 2005.Quote: My contention is that any language which provided more than one 2nd person plural pronoun, and required the speaker to make substantial enquiries about the whereabouts and number of those referred to in addition to the one person he was actually addressing, would be quite literally unspeakable.
^ Thompson, E. D. 1983. "Kunama: phonology and noun phrase" in M. Lionel Bender (ed.): Nilo-Saharan Language Studies, pp. 280–322. East Lansing: African Studies Center, Michigan State University.
Filimonova, Elena (eds). (2005). Clusivity: Typological and case studies of the inclusive-exclusive distinction. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company. ISBN 90-272-2974-0.
^ Matthews, 2010. "Language Contact and Chinese". In Hickey, ed., The Handbook of Language Contact, p 760.
It is not uncommon for two separate words for "I" to pluralize into derived words, which have a clusivity distinction. For example, in Vietnamese, the familiar word for "I" (ta) pluralizes to inclusive we (chúng ta), and the formal or cold word for "I" (tôi) pluralizes into exclusive we (chúng tôi).In Samoan, the singular form of the exclusive is the regular word for "I", and the singular form of the inclusive may also occur on its own and then also means "I" but with a connotation of appealing or asking for indulgence.
Matthews, 2010. "Language Contact and Chinese". In Hickey, ed., The Handbook of Language Contact, p 760.
In some languages, the three first-person pronouns appear to be unrelated. That is the case for Chechen, which has singular so/со, exclusive txo/тхо, and inclusive vay/вай. In others, however, all three are related, as in Tok Pisin, an English creole spoken in Papua New Guinea, which has singular mi, exclusive mi-pela, and inclusive yu-mi (a compound of mi with yu "you") or yu-mi-pela. However, when only one of the plural pronouns is related to the singular, that may be the case for either one. In some dialects of Mandarin Chinese, for example, inclusive or exclusive 我們／我们 wǒmen is the plural form of singular wǒ "I", and inclusive 咱們／咱们 zánmen is a separate root. However, in Hadza, the inclusive, ’one-be’e,is the plural of the singular ’ono (’one-) "I", and the exclusive, ’oo-be’e, is a separate[dubious– discuss] root.[citation needed]
Clusivity in the second person is conceptually simple but nonetheless if it exists is extremely rare, unlike clusivity in the first.Hypothetical second-person clusivity would be the distinction between "you and you (and you and you ... all present)" and "you and someone else whom I am not addressing currently."These are often referred to in the literature as "2+2" and "2+3", respectively (the numbers referring to second and third person as appropriate).Horst J. Simon provides a deep analysis of second-person clusivity in his 2005 article.[2]He concludes that oft-repeated rumors regarding the existence of second-person clusivity—or indeed, any [+3] pronoun feature beyond simple exclusive we[8] – are ill-founded, and based on erroneous analysis of the data.
Payne, Thomas E. (1997), Describing morphosyntax: A guide for field linguists, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0-521-58224-5
"Only you? Philological investigations into the alleged inclusive-exclusive distinction in the second person plural"
Kibort, Anna. "Person." Grammatical Features. 7 January 2008. [1] Retrieved on 16 March 2020.
^ http://wals.info/chapter/39 World Atlas of Language Structures 39: Inclusive/Exclusive Distinction in Independent Pronouns
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Filimonova, Elena (30 November 2005). Clusivity: Typology and case studies of the inclusive-exclusive distinction. John Benjamins Publishing. ISBN 9789027293886 – via Google Books.
In Tamil, on the other hand, the two different pronouns have the same agreement in the verb.
In the Kunama language of Eritrea, the first-person inclusive and exclusive distinction is marked on dual and plural forms of verbs, independent pronouns, and possessive pronouns.[4]
In linguistics, clusivity[1] is a grammatical distinction between inclusive and exclusive first-person pronouns and verbal morphology, also called inclusive "we" and exclusive "we". Inclusive "we" specifically includes the addressee (that is, one of the words for "we" means "you and I and possibly others"), while exclusive "we" specifically excludes the addressee (that is, another word for "we" means "he/she/they and I, but not you"), regardless of who else may be involved. While imagining that this sort of distinction could be made in other persons (particularly the second) is straightforward, in fact the existence of second-person clusivity (you vs. you and them) in natural languages is controversial and not well attested.[2] While clusivity is not a feature of standard English language, it is found in many languages around the world.
^ One treated example is the Ghomala' language of Western Cameroon, which has been said to have a [1+2+3] first-person plural pronoun, but a more recent analysis by Wiesemann (2003) indicates that such pronouns may be limited to ceremonial use.
^ a b c Simon, Horst J. (2005). "Only you? Philological investigations into the alleged inclusive-exclusive distinction in the second person plural" (PDF).In Filimonova, Elena (ed.). Clusivity: Typology and case studies of the inclusive-exclusive distinction. Amsterdam/Philadelphia. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-06-09. Retrieved 2010-08-02.
^ Comrie, Bernard. 1980."Review of Greenberg, Joseph H. (ed.), Universals of human language, Volume 3: Word Structure (1978)".Language 56: p837, as quoted in Simon 2005.Quote: One pair of combinations not discussed is the opposition between 2nd person non-singular inclusive (i.e. including some third person) and exclusive, which is attested in Southeast Ambrym.
^ Henderson, T.S.T. 1985. "Who are we, anyway? A study of personal pronoun systems". Linguistische Berichte 98: p308, as quoted in Simon 2005.Quote: My contention is that any language which provided more than one 2nd person plural pronoun, and required the speaker to make substantial enquiries about the whereabouts and number of those referred to in addition to the one person he was actually addressing, would be quite literally unspeakable.
Awde, Nicholas; Galaev, Muhammad (22 May 2014). Chechen-English English-Chechen Dictionary and Phrasebook. Routledge. ISBN 9781136802331 – via Google Books.
http://wals.info/chapter/40 World Atlas of Language Structures 40: Inclusive/Exclusive Distinction in Verbal Inflection
Jim Chen, First Person Plural (analyzing the significance of inclusive and exclusive we in constitutional interpretation)
Where verbs are inflected for person, as in the native languages of Australia and in many Native American languages, the inclusive-exclusive distinction can be made there as well. For example, in Passamaquoddy, "I/we have it" is expressed
http://wals.info/chapter/39 World Atlas of Language Structures 39: Inclusive/Exclusive Distinction in Independent Pronouns
The first published description of the inclusive-exclusive distinction by a European linguist was in a description of languages of Peru in 1560 by Domingo de Santo Tomás in his Grammatica o arte de la lengua general de los indios de los Reynos del Perú, published in Valladolid, Spain.[3]
In theory, clusivity of the second person should be a possible distinction, but its existence is controversial.Some notable linguists, such as Bernard Comrie,[6] have attested that the distinction is extant in spoken natural languages, while others, such as John Henderson,[7] maintain that the human brain does not have the capacity to make a clusivity distinction in the second person.Many other linguists take the more neutral position that it could exist but is nonetheless not currently attested.[2]
Simon, Horst J. (2005). "Only you? Philological investigations into the alleged inclusive-exclusive distinction in the second person plural" (PDF).In Filimonova, Elena (ed.). Clusivity: Typology and case studies of the inclusive-exclusive distinction. Amsterdam/Philadelphia. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-06-09. Retrieved 2010-08-02.
First-person clusivity is a common feature among Dravidian, Kartvelian, and Caucasian languages,[5] Australian and Austronesian languages, and is also found in languages of eastern, southern, and southwestern Asia, Americas, and in some creole languages. Some African languages also make the distinction, such as the Fula language. No European language outside the Caucasus makes this distinction grammatically, but some constructions[exampleneeded] may be semantically inclusive or exclusive.
The inclusive–exclusive distinction occurs nearly universally among the Austronesian languages and the languages of northern Australia, but rarely in the nearby Papuan languages. (Tok Pisin, an English-Melanesian creole, generally has the inclusive–exclusive distinction, but this varies with the speaker's language background.) It is widespread in India, featuring in the Dravidian and Munda languages, as well as in several Indo-European languages of India such as Oriya, Marathi, Rajasthani, Punjabi, Sindhi, and Gujarati (which either borrowed it from Dravidian or retained it as a substratum while Dravidian was displaced). It can also be found in the languages of eastern Siberia, such as Tungusic, as well as northern Mandarin Chinese. In indigenous languages of the Americas, it is found in about half the languages, with no clear geographic or genealogical pattern. It is also found in a few languages of the Caucasus and Sub-Saharan Africa, such as Fulani, and Khoekhoe.[9][10]
Several Polynesian languages, such as Samoan and Tongan, have clusivity with overt dual and plural suffixes in their pronouns. The lack of a suffix indicates the singular. The exclusive form is used in the singular as the normal word for "I", but the inclusive also occurs in the singular. The distinction is one of discourse: the singular inclusive has been described as the "modesty I" in Tongan. It is often rendered in English as one, but in Samoan, its use has been described as indicating emotional involvement on the part of the speaker.
^ http://wals.info/chapter/40 World Atlas of Language Structures 40: Inclusive/Exclusive Distinction in Verbal Inflection
This page was last edited on 12 March 2023, at 23:00 (UTC).
Loanwords and influences also from Hebrew, Syriac, and Ladino abound in the Jewish Malayalam dialects, as well as English, Portuguese, Syriac, and Greek in the Christian dialects, while Arabic and Persian elements predominate in the Muslim dialects.
Symbol, Script, and Writing: From Petrogram to Printing and Further
Varma, A.R. Rajaraja (2005). Keralapanineeyam. Kottayam: D C Books. pp. 301–302. ISBN 978-81-7130-672-5.
The alveolar nasal once had a separate character ⟨ഩ⟩ that is now obsolete and the sound is now almost always represented by the symbol that was originally used only for the dental nasal. However, both sounds are extensively used in current colloquial and official Malayalam, and although they were allophones in Old Malayalam, they now occasionally contrast in gemination – for example, eṉṉāl ('by me', first person singular pronoun in the instrumental case) and ennāl ('if that is so'), which are both written ennāl (എന്നാൽ).
^ a b Sheldon Pollock; Arvind Raghunathan Professor of South Asian Studies Sheldon Pollock (19 May 2003). Literary Cultures in History: Reconstructions from South Asia. University of California Press. pp. 441–442. ISBN 978-0-520-22821-4. Archived from the original on 26 December 2016. Retrieved 18 May 2018.
^ Menon, T. K. Krishna (1939). A Primer of Malayalam Literature. Asian Educational Services. ISBN 9788120606036. Archived from the original on 7 June 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021 – via Google Books.
^ [4] Archived 9 July 2021 at the Wayback Machine p=78
The Syrian Christian or Nasrani dialect of Malayalam is quite close to the Nair dialect, especially in phonology. The speech of the educated section among Syrian Christians and that of those who are close to the church are peculiar in having a number of assimilated as well as unassimilated loan words from English and Syriac. The few loan words which have found their way into the Christian dialect are assimilated in many cases through the process of de-aspiration.[77][78][79]
Naha, Abdul Latheef (24 September 2020). "Jnanpith given to Akkitham". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 22 November 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2021.
^ a b c d e f g h i
^ "prd-Kunchan Nambiar (1705–1770)". Department of Public Relations, Government of Kerala. 23 March 2006. Archived from the original on 23 March 2006. Retrieved 2 March 2019.
^ Gaṅgopādhyāẏa, Subrata (2004). Symbol, Script, and Writing: From Petrogram to Printing and Further. Sharada Pub. House. p. 158. Archived from the original on 8 November 2015. Retrieved 15 November 2015.
Freeman, Rich (2003). "Genre and Society: The Literary Culture of Premodern Kerala". In Literary Cultures in History: Reconstructions from South Asia
Veluthat, Kesavan (2018). "History and Historiography in Constituting a Region: The Case of Kerala". Studies in People's History. 5 (1): 13–31. doi:10.1177/2348448918759852. ISSN 2348-4489. S2CID 166060066. Archived from the original on 13 September 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021.
"Census of India – Language". censusindia.gov.in. Archived from the original on 1 November 2021. Retrieved 17 April 2020.
Hermann Gundert (1872). A Malayalam and English Dictionary. Mangalore: C. Stolz.
^ S. Kunjan Pillai (1965) – Malayalam Lexicon, pg xxii–xxiv
"The Samyojika Vibhakthi and Its Unique Application in Malayalam Grammar"
ANI (29 November 2019). "Celebrated Malayalam poet Akkitham wins 2019 Jnanpith Award". Business Standard. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2021.
^ "The Samyojika Vibhakthi and Its Unique Application in Malayalam Grammar" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 31 July 2012. Retrieved 20 February 2012.
^ Kallen, hussain Randathani. "TRADE AND CULTURE: INDIAN OCEAN INTERACTION ON THE COAST OF MALABAR IN MEDIEVAL PERIOD". Archived from the original on 15 April 2022. Retrieved 27 May 2021. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Broughton Richmond (1956), Time measurement and calendar construction, p. 218, archived from the original on 9 June 2021, retrieved 9 June 2021
As in other Dravidian languages, the retroflex series are true subapical consonants, in which the underside of the tongue contacts the roof.[98]
"Banjamin Bailey" Archived 10 February 2010 at the Wayback Machine, The Hindu, 5 February 2010
In 1821, the Church Mission Society (CMS) at Kottayam in association with the Syriac Orthodox Church started a seminary at Kottayam in 1819 and started printing books in Malayalam when Benjamin Bailey, an Anglican priest, made the first Malayalam types. In addition, he contributed to standardizing the prose.[163] Hermann Gundert from Stuttgart, Germany, started the first Malayalam newspaper, Rajya Samacaram in 1847 at Talasseri. It was printed at Basel Mission.[164] Malayalam and Sanskrit were increasingly studied by Christians of Kottayam and Pathanamthitta. The Marthomite movement in the mid-19th century called for replacement of Syriac by Malayalam for liturgical purposes. By the end of the 19th century Malayalam replaced Syriac as language of Liturgy in all Syrian Christian churches.
Malayalam literature has been profoundly influenced by poets Cherusseri Namboothiri,[142][57] Thunchaththu Ezhuthachan,[57] and Poonthanam Nambudiri,[57][143] in the 15th and the 16th centuries of Common Era.[57][144] Unnayi Variyar, a probable 17th–18th century poet,[145] and Kunchan Nambiar, a poet of 18th century,[146] also greatly influenced Malayalam literature in its early form.[57] The words used in many of the Arabi Malayalam works those date back to 16th–17th centuries of Common Era are also very closer to the modern Malayalam language.[57][147] The prose literature, criticism, and Malayalam journalism began after the latter half of 18th century CE. Contemporary Malayalam literature deals with social, political, and economic life context. The tendency of the modern poetry is often towards political radicalism.[148] Malayalam literature has been presented with six Jnanapith awards, the second-most for any Dravidian language and the third-highest for any Indian language.[149][150]
^ "August 23, 2010 Archives". Archived from the original on 27 April 2013.
Mahapatra, B. P. (1989). Constitutional Languages. The Written Languages of the World: A Survey of the Degree and Modes of Use. Vol. 2. Presses Université Laval. ISBN 978-2-7637-7186-1.
/ɕ ~ ʃ, t͡ɕ ~ t͡ʃ, t͡ɕʰ ~ t͡ʃʰ, d͡ʑ ~ d͡ʒ, d͡ʑʱ ~ d͡ʒʱ/ can either be postalveolar or alveolo-palatal depending upon the speaker and dialect; the postalveolar and alveolo-palatal realizations are in free variation.[99]
Menon. T. Madhava. "A Handbook of Kerala, Volume 2", International School of Dravidian Linguistics, 2002. pp. 491–493.
Labels such as "Nampoothiri Dialect", "Mappila Dialect", and "Nasrani Dialect" refer to overall patterns constituted by the sub-dialects spoken by the subcastes or sub-groups of each such caste. The most outstanding features of the major communal dialects of Malayalam are summarized below:
"South Asian arts". Archived from the original on 10 September 2014. Retrieved 15 September 2017.
Ayyar, Ramaswami (1936). The Evolution of Malayalam Morphology (1st ed.). Cochin, Kerala: Cochin government press. pp. 1–37.
K. M. George (1968). A Survey of Malayalam Literature. Bombay: Asia Publishing House.
Ed. Vinod Kumar Maheshwari (2002). Perspectives on Indian English Literature. Atlantic Publishers & Dist. p. 126. ISBN 978-8126900930. Archived from the original on 2 January 2014. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
In the second half of the 20th century, Jnanpith winning poets and writers like G. Sankara Kurup, S. K. Pottekkatt, Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai,M. T. Vasudevan Nair, O. N. V. Kurup, Edasseri Govindan Nair and Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri, had made valuable contributions to the modern Malayalam literature.[65][66][67][68][69] Later, writers like O. V. Vijayan, Kamaladas, M. Mukundan, Arundhati Roy, and Vaikom Muhammed Basheer, have gained international recognition.[71][72][73][166]
^ [2] Archived 10 January 2012 at the Wayback Machine, censusindia.net
^ "Kerala / Kozhikode News : Copy of first book printed in Kerala released". The Hindu. 14 October 2005. Archived from the original on 27 March 2010. Retrieved 30 March 2012.
But the period of the earliest available literary document cannot be the sole criterion used to determine the antiquity of a language. In its early literature, Malayalam has songs, Pattu, for various subjects and occasions, such as harvesting, love songs, heroes, gods, etc. A form of writing called Campu emerged from the 14th century onwards. It mixed poetry with prose and used a vocabulary strongly influenced by Sanskrit, with themes from epics and Puranas.[44]
Caldwell, Robert (1998). A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian Or South-Indian Family of Languages. Asian Educational Services. pp. 6, 16, 17–19, 20, 21–25. ISBN 978-81-206-0117-8. Malayalam is spoken along the Malabar coast, on the western side of the Ghauts, or Malaya range of mountains, from the vicinity of Kumbla near Mangalore, where it supersedes Tuļu, to Kanyakumari, where it begins to be superseded by Tamil. (Pages 6, 16, 20, 31)
"Kerala / Kozhikode News : Copy of first book printed in Kerala released"
^ Kunnath, Ammad (15 September 2015). "The rise and growth of Ponnani from 1498 AD To 1792 AD". Department of History. hdl:10603/49524. Archived from the original on 2 October 2022. Retrieved 27 May 2021. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
The World's Religions in Figures: An Introduction to International Religious Demography
"Cherussery (Krishnagadha) malayalam author books". keralaliterature.com. Archived from the original on 7 April 2019.
For the consonants and vowels, the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) symbol is given, followed by the Malayalam character and the ISO 15919 transliteration.[92] The current Malayalam script bears high similarity with Tigalari script, which was used for writing the Tulu language, spoken in coastal Karnataka (Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts) and the northernmost Kasargod district of Kerala.[19] Tigalari script was also used for writing Sanskrit in Malabar region.
^ Mahadevan, Iravatham (7 June 2012). "The earliest inscription in Malayalam". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 19 June 2018. Retrieved 28 August 2018.
Prayer from the Past Archived 4 April 2014 at the Wayback Machine, India Today
Along with these tatsama borrowings, there are also many tadbhava words in common use. These were incorporated via borrowing before the separation of Malayalam and Tamil. As the language did not then accommodate Sanskrit phonology as it now does, words were changed to conform to the Old Tamil phonological system, for example "Kr̥ṣṇa" → "Kaṇṇan".[110] Most of his works are oriented on the basic Malayalam family and cultures and many of them were path-breaking in the history of Malayalam literature
്*/ɨ̆/ formed from word final short /u/s but now there are /u/s finally as well, mostly in loanwords like in guru but native pērŭ; It is also added to the end of loanwords ending in some consonants, e.g. Skt. manas, suhr̥t, Ml. manassŭ, suhr̥ttŭ, En. current Ml. karaṇḍŭ. It is the saṁvr̥tōkāram, an epenthentic vowel in Malayalam. Therefore, it has no independent vowel letter (because it never occurs at the beginning of words) but, when it comes after a consonant, there are various ways of representing it. In medieval times, it was just represented with the symbol for /u/ ⟨കു⟩, but later on it was just completely omitted (that is, written as an inherent vowel ⟨ക⟩, thus, pērŭ was once written as pēra). In modern times, it is written in two different ways – the Northern style, in which a chandrakkala is used ⟨ക്⟩, and the Southern or Travancore style, in which the diacritic for a /u/ is attached to the preceding consonant and a chandrakkala is written above ⟨കു്⟩. According to one author, this alternative form ⟨കു്⟩ is historically more correct, though the simplified form without a vowel sign u is common nowadays.[93]
[2] Archived 10 January 2012 at the Wayback Machine, censusindia.net
In all, Malayalis made up 3.22% of the total Indian population in 2011. Of the total 34,713,130 Malayalam speakers in India in 2011, 33,015,420 spoke the standard dialects, 19,643 spoke the Yerava dialect and 31,329 spoke non-standard regional variations like Eranadan.[88] As per the 1991 census data, 28.85% of all Malayalam speakers in India spoke a second language and 19.64% of the total knew three or more languages.
Subodh Kapoor (2002). The Indian Encyclopaedia: Biographical, Historical, Religious, Administrative, Ethnological, Commercial and Scientific. Mahi-Mewat. Cosmo. p. 4542. ISBN 978-8177552720. Archived from the original on 27 May 2013. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
Old Malayalam gradually developed into Middle Malayalam (Madhyakaala Malayalam) by 13th century CE.[56] Malayalam literature also completely diverged from Tamil literature during this period. Works including Unniyachi Charitham, Unnichiruthevi Charitham, and Unniyadi Charitham, are written in Middle Malayalam, and date back to 13th and 14th centuries of Common Era.[57][30] The Sandesha Kavyas of 14th century CE written in Manipravalam language include Unnuneeli Sandesam.[57][30] Kannassa Ramayanam and Kannassa Bharatham by Rama Panikkar of the Niranam poets who lived between 1350 and 1450, are representative of this language.[58] Ulloor has opined that Rama Panikkar holds the same position in Malayalam literature that Edmund Spenser does in English literature.[58] The Champu Kavyas written by Punam Nambudiri, one among the Pathinettara Kavikal (Eighteen and a half poets) in the court of the Zamorin of Calicut, also belong to Middle Malayalam.[30][57] The literary works of this period were heavily influenced by Manipravalam, which was a combination of contemporary Malayalam and Sanskrit.[30] The word Mani-Pravalam literally means Diamond-Coral or Ruby-Coral. The 14th-century Lilatilakam text states Manipravalam to be a Bhashya (language) where "Malayalam and Sanskrit should combine together like ruby and coral, without the least trace of any discord".[59][60] The scripts of Kolezhuthu and Malayanma were also used to write Middle Malayalam, in addition to Vatteluthu and Grantha script those were used to write Old Malayalam.[30] The literary works written in Middle Malayalam were heavily influenced by Sanskrit and Prakrit, while comparing them with the modern Malayalam literature.[57][30]
"Wals.info". Wals.info. Archived from the original on 20 May 2011. Retrieved 20 February 2012.
Dr. K. Ayyappa Panicker (2006). A Short History of Malayalam Literature. Thiruvananthapuram: Department of Information and Public Relations, Kerala.
N. V. Krishna Warrier (1977). A History of Malayalam Metre. Trivandrum: Dravidian Linguistics Association.
^ Barbosa, Duarte; Dames, Mansel Longworth (1918). "PDF.js viewer" (PDF). indianculture.gov.in. Asian Educational Services. pp. 194–198. Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 April 2022. Retrieved 24 April 2022.
^ Often transcribed as zh by Malayalis and Tamils, may also be transcribed as ẓ or r̤ by some others.
^ S.V. Shanmugam (1976). "Formation and Development of Malayalam", Indian Literature, Vol. 19, No. 3 (May–June 1976), pp. 5–30. JSTOR 24157306 "Yet, some scholars of Malayalam still believe that Malayalam should have originated independently from the Proto-Dravidian at a very early stage [...] The native scholars are unwilling to accept Malayalam as an ausbau language; instead they take it to be an abstand language 'language by distance' contrary to historical evidence (pp.9–10)".
^ a b c Suriyani Malayalam Archived 11 June 2014 at the Wayback Machine, Nasrani Foundation
Malayalam numbers and fractions are written as follows. These are archaic and no longer used. Instead, the common Hindu-Arabic numeral system is followed. Note that there is a confusion about the glyph of Malayalam digit zero. The correct form is oval-shaped, but occasionally the glyph for .mw-parser-output .frac{white-space:nowrap}.mw-parser-output .frac .num,.mw-parser-output .frac .den{font-size:80%;line-height:0;vertical-align:super}.mw-parser-output .frac .den{vertical-align:sub}.mw-parser-output .sr-only{border:0;clip:rect(0,0,0,0);height:1px;margin:-1px;overflow:hidden;padding:0;position:absolute;width:1px}1⁄4 (൳) is erroneously shown as the glyph for 0.
8Writing system											Toggle Writing system subsection																					8.1Malayalam script																											8.2Chillu letters																											8.3Number system and other symbols																											8.4Numerals																											8.5Fractions																											8.6Vattezhuthu alphabet																											8.7Grantha																											8.8Karshoni																											8.9Ponnani script
In Malayalam you can transcribe any fraction by affixing (-il) after the denominator followed by the numerator, so a fraction like 7⁄10 would be read as പത്തിൽ ഏഴ് (pattil ēḻŭ) 'out of ten, seven' but fractions like 1⁄2 1⁄4 and 3⁄4 have distinct names (ara, kāl, mukkāl) and 1⁄8 (arakkāl) 'half quarter'.[118]
The plain stops, affricates, nasals, laterals, the fricatives /s/ and /ʃ/ and approximants other than /ɻ / can be geminated and gemination can sometimes change the meaning of the word, e.g. കളം /kaɭam/ 'cell', കള്ളം /kaɭːam/ 'lie'.[92] /n̪, ɲ, ŋ, t/ only occur in geminated form intervocalically.[99]
By the end of the 18th century some of the Christian missionaries from Kerala started writing in Malayalam but mostly travelogues, dictionaries and religious books. Varthamanappusthakam (1778), written by Paremmakkal Thoma Kathanar[154] is considered to be the first travelogue in an Indian language. The modern Malayalam grammar is based on the book Kerala Panineeyam written by A. R. Raja Raja Varma in late 19th century CE.[20]
^ a b c d e f Narayanan, M. G. S. (2013). Perumals of Kerala. Thrissur: CosmoBooks. pp. 380–82. ISBN 9788188765072. Archived from the original on 7 June 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021.
^ a b Indian Writing Today. Nirmala Sadanand Publishers. 1967. p. 21. Archived from the original on 2 January 2014. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
The poem Krishnagatha written by Cherusseri Namboothiri, who was the court poet of the king Udaya Varman Kolathiri (1446–1475) of Kolathunadu, is written in modern Malayalam.[57] The language used in Krishnagatha is the modern spoken form of Malayalam.[57] It appears to be the first literary work written in the present-day language of Malayalam.[57] During the 16th century CE, Thunchaththu Ezhuthachan from the Kingdom of Tanur and Poonthanam Nambudiri from the Kingdom of Valluvanad followed the new trend initiated by Cherussery in their poems. The Adhyathmaramayanam Kilippattu and Mahabharatham Kilippattu written by Ezhuthachan and Jnanappana written by Poonthanam are also included in the earliest form of Modern Malayalam.[57] The words used in most of the Arabi Malayalam works, which dates back to 16th–17th centuries, are also very closer to modern Malayalam language.[57] P. Shangunny Menon ascribes the authorship of the medieval work Keralolpathi, which describes the Parashurama legend and the departure of the final Cheraman Perumal king to Mecca, to Thunchaththu Ramanujan Ezhuthachan.[61]
Karashima, Noboru (2014). A Concise History of South India: Issues and Interpretations. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-809977-2.
^ V. Nagam Aiya (1906). The Travancore State Manual. Travancore Government Press.
Vatteluttu (Malayalam: വട്ടെഴുത്ത്, Vaṭṭezhuthŭ, "round writing") is a script that had evolved from Tamil-Brahmi and was once used extensively in the southern part of present-day Tamil Nadu and in Kerala.
"Ethnologue report for language code: mal". Ethnologue.com. Archived from the original on 28 June 2013. Retrieved 20 February 2012.
"South Kanara, The Nilgiris, Malabar and Coimbators Districts". Archived from the original on 2 October 2022. Retrieved 29 April 2021.
Malayalam (/ˌmæləˈjɑːləm/;[7] Malayalam: മലയാളം, Malayāḷam, [mɐlɐjäːɭɐm] (listen)) is a Dravidian language spoken in the Indian state of Kerala and the union territories of Lakshadweep and Puducherry (Mahé district) by the Malayali people. It is one of 22 scheduled languages of India. Malayalam was designated a "Classical Language of India" in 2013.[8][9] Malayalam has official language status in Kerala and Puducherry (Mahé),[10][11][12] and is also the primary spoken language of Lakshadweep,[13] and is spoken by 34 million people in India.[2] Malayalam is also spoken by linguistic minorities in the neighbouring states; with a significant number of speakers in the Kodagu and Dakshina Kannada districts of Karnataka, and Kanyakumari, district of Tamil Nadu. It is also spoken by the Malayali Diaspora worldwide, especially in the Persian Gulf countries, due to the large populations of Malayali expatriates there. They are a significant population in each city in India including Mumbai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Kolkata, Pune etc.
^ "Vazhapally Temple". Vazhappally Sree Mahadeva Temple. Archived from the original on 9 January 2011. Retrieved 31 October 2009.
Statistics New Zealand:Language spoken (total responses) for the 1996–2006 censuses (Table 16), stats.govt.nz
*/a/ (phonetically central: [ä]) is represented as basic or the "default" vowel in the Abugida script.
"Ravula". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 21 September 2022. Retrieved 14 June 2022.
^ a b Ager, Simon (1998). "Malayalam alphabet, pronunciation and language". Omniglot. Archived from the original on 10 May 2021. Retrieved 8 September 2009.
A. Govindankutty (1972) – From proto-Tamil-Malayalam to West Coast dialects. Indo-Iranian Journal, Vol. 14 No. (1/2), pp. 52–60
Kunnath, Ammad (15 September 2015). "The rise and growth of Ponnani from 1498 AD To 1792 AD". Department of History. hdl:10603/49524. Archived from the original on 2 October 2022. Retrieved 27 May 2021. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ "Malayalam gets classical language status". The Indian Express. 24 May 2013. Archived from the original on 7 September 2021. Retrieved 7 September 2021.
Asher, R. E.; Kumari, T. C. (1997). Malayalam. Psychology Press. ISBN 978-0-415-02242-2.
R. Leela Devi (1977). History of Malayalam Literature. Trivandrum: Educational Supplies Depot.
Manipravalam of the Sanskrit tradition, which permitted a generous interspersing of Sanskrit with Malayalam. Niranam poets[141] Manipravalam Madhava Panikkar, Sankara Panikkar and Rama Panikkar wrote Manipravalam poetry in the 14th century.[57]
Masculine Sanskrit nouns with a word stem ending in a short /a/ take the ending /an/ in the nominative singular. For example, Kr̥ṣṇa → Kr̥ṣṇan. The final /n/ is dropped before masculine surnames, honorifics, or titles ending in /an/ and beginning with a consonant other than /n/ – e.g., "Krishna Menon", "Krishna Kaniyaan" etc., but "Krishnan Ezhutthachan". Surnames ending with /ar/ or /aḷ/ (where these are plural forms of "an" denoting respect) are treated similarly – "Krishna Pothuval", "Krishna Chakyar", but "Krishnan Nair", "Krishnan Nambiar", as are Sanskrit surnames such "Varma(n)", "Sharma(n)", or "Gupta(n)" (rare) – e.g., "Krishna Varma", "Krishna Sharman". If a name is a compound, only the last element undergoes this transformation – e.g., "Kr̥ṣṇa" + "dēva" = "Kr̥ṣṇadēvan", not "Kr̥ṣṇandēvan".
^ [3] Archived 4 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 22 November 2014.
P. K. Parameswaran Nair (1967). History of Malayalam Literature. Translated by E. M. J. Venniyoor. New Delhi: Sahitya Akademi.
A. Sreedhara Menon (1967). A Survey of Kerala History. Kottayam: S.P.C.S. ISBN 9788126415786.
The retroflex lateral is clearly retroflex, but may be more of a flap [𝼈 ] (= [ɺ̢ ]) than an approximant [ɭ ]. The approximant /ɻ/ has both rhotic and lateral qualities, and is indeterminate between an approximant and a fricative, but is laminal post-alveolar rather than a true retroflex. The articulation changes part-way through, perhaps explaining why it behaves as both a rhotic and a lateral, both an approximant and a fricative, but the nature of the change is not understood.[102]
^ a b Haowen Jiang (April 2010). "Malayalam: a Grammatical Sketch and a Text" (PDF). Department of Linguistics, Rice University. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 September 2012. Retrieved 8 January 2022.
Eighth Schedule to the Constitution of IndiaOfficial Languages CommissionClassical Languages of IndiaList of languages by number of native speakers in India
Sheldon Pollock; Arvind Raghunathan Professor of South Asian Studies Sheldon Pollock (19 May 2003). Literary Cultures in History: Reconstructions from South Asia. University of California Press. pp. 441–442. ISBN 978-0-520-22821-4. Archived from the original on 26 December 2016. Retrieved 18 May 2018.
According to the Dravidian Encyclopedia, the regional dialects of Malayalam can be divided into fifteen dialect areas.[74] They are as follows:
"New university centre for Arabi Malayalam". Deccan Chronicle. 15 October 2017. Archived from the original on 24 October 2020. Retrieved 20 October 2020.
O. Chandu Menon wrote his novels "Indulekha" and "Saradha" while he was the judge at Parappanangadi Munciff Court. Indulekha is also the first Major Novel written in Malayalam language.[165]
"Malayalam not official language of Lakshadweep, no requirement to publish draft regulations in vernacular: Lakashdweep admin to Kerala High Court"
Mathrubhumi Yearbook Plus – 2019 (Malayalam ed.). Kozhikode: P. V. Chandran, Managing Editor, Mathrubhumi Printing & Publishing Company Limited, Kozhikode. 2018. p. 454. ASIN 8182676444.
^ Varma, A.R. Rajaraja (2005). Keralapanineeyam. Kottayam: D C Books. p. 303. ISBN 978-81-7130-672-5.
Joseph Peet (1841). A Grammar of the Malayalim Language. Cottayam: Church Missionary Society.
^ Malayalam (Namboodiri Dialect) Archived 28 October 2020 at the Wayback Machine – Cambridge University Press
^ Herman Gundert | Kerala Press Academy Archived 14 May 2013 at the Wayback Machine. Pressacademy.org. Retrieved 28 July 2013.
^ "Development of Literature". Malayalam Resource Centre. Archived from the original on 4 July 2013. Retrieved 20 November 2009.
^ Ayyar, Ramaswami (1936). The Evolution of Malayalam Morphology (1st ed.). Cochin, Kerala: Cochin government press. pp. 35–37.
^ Krishnamurti, Bhadriraju. "Malayalam language". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 16 November 2018. Retrieved 27 October 2018.
^ Barbosa, Duarte (1989). The Book of Duarte Barbosa: An Account of the countries bordering on the Indian Ocean and their inhabitants (Volume 2). Asian Educational Services. pp. 1–7. ISBN 9788120604513. Per Barbosa, Malabar begins at the point where the kingdom of Narasyngua or Vijayanagar ends, that is at Cumbola (Cambola) on the Chandragiri river.
Eṃ Mukundan; C. Gopinathan Pillai (2004). Eng Adityan Radha And Others. Sahitya Akademi. p. 3. ISBN 978-8126018833. Archived from the original on 27 May 2013. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
"Language". kerala.gov.in. Archived from the original on 11 October 2007. Retrieved 28 May 2007.
Some scholars however believe that both Tamil and Malayalam developed during the prehistoric period from a common ancestor, 'Proto-Tamil-Malayalam', and that the notion of Malayalam being a 'daughter' of Tamil is misplaced.[15] This is based on the fact that Malayalam and several Dravidian languages on the Western Coast have common archaic features which are not found even in the oldest historical forms of literary Tamil.[41] Despite this Malayalam shares many common innovations with Tamil that emerged during the early Middle Tamil period, thus making independent descent impossible.[14]
The British printed Malabar English Dictionary[158] by Graham Shaw in 1779 was still in the form of a Tamil-English Dictionary.[159] Paremmakkal Thoma Kathanar wrote the first Malayalam travelogue called Varthamanappusthakam in 1789.
Amit Chaudhuri (2008). Clearing a Space: Reflections on India, Literature, and Culture. Peter Lang. pp. 44–45. ISBN 978-1906165017. Archived from the original on 27 May 2013. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
Robert Caldwell describes the extent of Malayalam in the 19th century as extending from the vicinity of Kumbla in the north where it supersedes with Tulu to Kanyakumari in the south, where it begins to be superseded by Tamil,[23] besides the inhabited islands of Lakshadweep in the Arabian Sea.
/ɾ, l, ɻ / are very weakly palatalized while /r, ɭ / are clear.[99]
Variations in intonation patterns, vocabulary, and distribution of grammatical and phonological elements are observable along the parameters of region, religion, community, occupation, social stratum, style and register.
Malayalam poetry to the late 20th century betrays varying degrees of the fusion of the three different strands. The oldest examples of Pattu and Manipravalam, respectively, are Ramacharitam and Vaishikatantram, both from the 12th century.[151][57]
^ a b Kerala (India), Dept. of Public Relations (2003), District Handbooks of Kerala: Pathanamthitta (Volume 7 of District Handbooks of Kerala, Kerala (India). Dept. of Public Relations
Sasibhooshan, Gayathri (12 July 2012). "Historians contest antiquity of Edakkal inscriptions". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 6 December 2020. Retrieved 21 October 2020.
Due to the geographical isolation of the Malabar Coast from the rest of the Indian peninsula due to the presence of the Western Ghats mountain ranges which lie parallel to the coast, the dialect of Old Tamil spoken in Kerala was different from that spoken in Tamil Nadu.[30] The mainstream view holds that Malayalam began to grow as a distinct literary language from the western coastal dialect of Medieval Tamil (Karintamil)[37] and the linguistic separation completed sometime between the 9th and 13th centuries.[38][39] The renowned poets of Classical Tamil such as Paranar (1st century CE), Ilango Adigal (2nd–3rd century CE), and Kulasekhara Alvar (9th century CE) were Keralites.[30] The Sangam works can be considered as the ancient predecessor of Malayalam.[40]
Malayalam has also borrowed the Sanskrit diphthongs of /au/ (represented in Malayalam as ഔ, au) and /ai/ (represented in Malayalam as ഐ, ai), although these mostly occur only in Sanskrit loanwords. Traditionally (as in Sanskrit), four vocalic consonants (usually pronounced in Malayalam as consonants followed by the saṁvr̥tōkāram, which is not officially a vowel, and not as actual vocalic consonants) have been classified as vowels: vocalic r (ഋ, /rɨ̆/, r̥), long vocalic r (ൠ, /rɨː/, r̥̄), vocalic l (ഌ, /lɨ̆/, l̥) and long vocalic l (ൡ, /lɨː/, l̥̄). Except for the first, the other three have been omitted from the current script used in Kerala as there are no words in current Malayalam that use them.
Arun Narayanan (25 October 2018). "The Charms of Poonthanam Illam". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 6 April 2021.
^ Menon, A. Sreedhara (2008). The legacy of Kerala (1st DCB ed.). Kottayam, Kerala: D C Books. ISBN 978-81-264-2157-2.
Hermann Gundert (1867). Catechism of Malayalam Grammar (PDF). Translated by L. Grathwaite. Cannanore: Government Book Depot.
According to Ethnologue, the dialects are:[29] Malabar, Nagari-Malayalam, North Kerala, Central Kerala, South Kerala, Kayavar, Namboodiri, Nair, Mappila, Beary, Jeseri, Yerava, Pulaya, Nasrani, and Kasargod. The community dialects are: Namboodiri, Nair, Arabi Malayalam, Pulaya, and Nasrani.[29] Whereas both the Namboothiri and Nair dialects have a common nature, the Arabi Malayalam is among the most divergent of dialects, differing considerably from literary Malayalam.[29] Jeseri is a dialect of Malayalam spoken mainly in the Union territory of Lakshadweep and Beary is spoken in Tulu Nadu which are nearer to Kerala. Of the total 33,066,392 Malayalam speakers in India in 2001, 33,015,420 spoke the standard dialects, 19,643 spoke the Yerava dialect and 31,329 spoke non-standard regional variations like Eranadan.[75]
^ "South Asian Scripts-I" (PDF). The Unicode Standard 5.0 – Electronic Edition. Unicode, Inc. 1991–2007. pp. 42–44. Archived (PDF) from the original on 25 February 2021. Retrieved 8 September 2009.
^ "Kumaran Asan – Kumaran Asan Poems – Poem Hunter". poemhunter.com. Archived from the original on 29 July 2017. Retrieved 15 September 2017.
"Education in Lakshadweep – Discovering the past chapters". Archived from the original on 5 October 2010. Retrieved 24 June 2010.
^ "New university centre for Arabi Malayalam". Deccan Chronicle. 15 October 2017. Archived from the original on 24 October 2020. Retrieved 20 October 2020.
^ The Unicode Standard Version 13.0 – Core Specification, South and Central Asia-I,Official Scripts of India pg. 514
The Sangam literature can be considered as the ancient predecessor of Malayalam.[40] According to Iravatham Mahadevan, the earliest Malayalam inscription discovered until now is the Edakal-5 inscription (ca. late 4th century – early 5th century) reading ī pazhama (English: 'this is old').[138] Although this has been disputed by other scholars.[139] The use of the pronoun ī and the lack of the literary Tamil -ai ending are archaisms from Proto-Dravidian rather than unique innovations of Malayalam.[note 2]
^ Binoy, Rasmi (27 September 2018). "The river sutra". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 24 January 2021.
^ Narayanan, M. G. S. (2013) [1972]. Perumals of Kerala: Brahmin Oligarchy and Ritual Monarchy. Thrissur (Kerala): CosmoBooks. ISBN 9788188765072. Archived from the original on 7 June 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021.
A sacredlanguage is vanishing from State Archived 10 July 2013 at the Wayback Machine, The Hindu
Menon, T. K. Krishna (1939). A Primer of Malayalam Literature. Asian Educational Services. ISBN 9788120606036. Archived from the original on 7 June 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021 – via Google Books.
M. G. S. Narayanan. "Kozhikkodinte Katha". Malayalam/Essays. Mathrubhumi Books. Second Edition (2017) ISBN 978-81-8267-114-0
^ a b c d e f g h "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 September 2012. Retrieved 30 March 2012.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
Statement 1: Abstract of speakers' strength of languages and mother tongues – 2011". www.censusindia.gov.in. Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India. [1] Archived 14 November 2018 at the Wayback Machine
"National Virtual Translation Center – Arabic script for malayalam". Archived from the original on 17 January 2009. Retrieved 27 May 2021.
^ Subramoniam, V. I. (1997). Dravidian encyclopaedia. vol. 3, Language and literature. Thiruvananthapuram: International School of Dravidian Linguistics.Cit-P-487. Dravidian Encyclopedia Archived 29 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine
^ "Malayalam not official language of Lakshadweep, no requirement to publish draft regulations in vernacular: Lakashdweep admin to Kerala High Court".
^ Karashima 2014, p. 6: Other sources date this split to the 7th and 8th centuries.
^ "The DHS Program – India: Standard DHS, 2015–16". dhsprogram.com. Archived from the original on 21 October 2020. Retrieved 12 June 2021.
^ Krishna Kaimal, Aymanam (1989). Attakatha sahithyam. Trivandrum, State Institute of Language. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 1 May 2021.
Sheldon Pollock; Arvind Raghunathan (19 May 2003). Literary Cultures in History: Reconstructions from South Asia. University of California Press. pp. 449, 455–472. ISBN 978-0-520-22821-4. Archived from the original on 27 February 2020. Retrieved 18 May 2018.
Narayanan, M. G. S. (1972). Cultural Symbiosis in Kerala. Kerala: Kerala Historical Society. p. 18.
Feminine words ending in a long /ā/ or /ī/ are changed to end in a short /a/ or /i/, for example "Sītā" → "Sīta" and "Lakṣmī" → "Lakṣmi". However, the long vowel still appears in compound words, such as "Sītādēvi" or" Lakṣmīdēvi". The long ī is generally reserved for the vocative forms of these names, although in Sanskrit the vocative actually takes a short /i/. There are also a small number of nominative /ī/ endings that have not been shortened – a prominent example being the word "strī" for "woman".
^ "Official Language (Legislative) Commission". Archived from the original on 25 March 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
List of languages by number of native speakers in India
The Middle Malayalam was succeeded by Modern Malayalam (Aadhunika Malayalam) by 15th century CE.[30] The poem Krishnagatha written by Cherusseri Namboothiri, who was the court poet of the king Udaya Varman Kolathiri (1446–1475) of Kolathunadu, is written in modern Malayalam.[57] The language used in Krishnagatha is the modern spoken form of Malayalam.[57] During the 16th century CE, Thunchaththu Ezhuthachan from the Kingdom of Tanur and Poonthanam Nambudiri from the Kingdom of Valluvanad followed the new trend initiated by Cherussery in their poems. The Adhyathmaramayanam Kilippattu and Mahabharatham Kilippattu written by Ezhuthachan and Jnanappana written by Poonthanam are also included in the earliest form of Modern Malayalam.[57]
Kerala has the highest media exposure in India with newspapers publishing in nine languages, mainly English and Malayalam.[167][168]
Often transcribed as zh by Malayalis and Tamils, may also be transcribed as ẓ or r̤ by some others.
The following text is Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Indian Writing Today. Nirmala Sadanand Publishers. 1967. p. 21. Archived from the original on 2 January 2014. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
^ "Ravula". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 21 September 2022. Retrieved 14 June 2022.
^ Abha, why have you forsaken me Archived 25 May 2019 at the Wayback Machine – Times of India
A chillu (ചില്ല്, cillŭ), or a chillaksharam (ചില്ലക്ഷരം, cillakṣaram), is a special consonant letter that represents a pure consonant independently, without help of a virama. Unlike a consonant represented by an ordinary consonant letter, this consonant is never followed by an inherent vowel. Anusvara and visarga fit this definition but are not usually included. ISCII and Unicode 5.0 treat a chillu as a glyph variant of a normal ("base") consonant letter.[116] In Unicode 5.1 and later, chillu letters are treated as independent characters, encoded atomically.
man̠uṣyarellāvaruṁ tulyāvakāśaṅṅaḷōṭuṁ antassōṭuṁ svātantryattōṭuṅkūṭi jan̠icciṭṭuḷḷavarāṇ‌ŭ. an̠yōn̠yaṁ bhrātr̥bhāvattōṭe perumāṟuvān̠āṇ‌ŭ man̠uṣyan̠ŭ vivēkabuddhiyuṁ man̠asākṣiyuṁ siddhamāyirikkunnat‌ŭ.
"Malayalam gets classical language status". The Indian Express. 24 May 2013. Archived from the original on 7 September 2021. Retrieved 7 September 2021.
The earliest known poems in Malayalam, Ramacharitam and Thirunizhalmala, dated to the 12th to 14th century, were completed before the introduction of the Sanskrit alphabet. It was written by a poet with the pen name Cheeramakavi who, according to poet Ulloor S Parameswara Iyer, was Sree Veerarama Varman, a king of southern Kerala from AD 1195 to 1208.[155] However the claim that it was written in Southern Kerala is expired on the basis of new discoveries.[156] Other experts, like Chirakkal T Balakrishnan Nair, Dr. K.M. George, M. M. Purushothaman Nair, and P.V. Krishnan Nair, state that the origin of the book is in Kasaragod district in North Malabar region.[156] They cite the use of certain words in the book and also the fact that the manuscript of the book was recovered from Nileshwaram in North Malabar.[157] The influence of Ramacharitam is mostly seen in the contemporary literary works of Northern Kerala.[156] The words used in Ramacharitam such as Nade (Mumbe), Innum (Iniyum), Ninna (Ninne), Chaaduka (Eriyuka) are special features of the dialect spoken in North Malabar (Kasaragod-Kannur region).[156] Furthermore, the Thiruvananthapuram mentioned in Ramacharitham is not the Thiruvananthapuram in Southern Kerala.[156] But it is Ananthapura Lake Temple of Kumbla in the northernmost Kasaragod district of Kerala.[156] The word Thiru is used just by the meaning Honoured.[156] Today it is widely accepted that Ramacharitham was written somewhere in North Malabar (most likely near Kasaragod).[156]
^ a b Subodh Kapoor (2002). The Indian Encyclopaedia: Biographical, Historical, Religious, Administrative, Ethnological, Commercial and Scientific. Mahi-Mewat. Cosmo. p. 4542. ISBN 978-8177552720. Archived from the original on 27 May 2013. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
"Dravidian languages." Encyclopædia Britannica. Ultimate Reference Suite. Chicago: Encyclopædia Britannica, 2008.
^ "P&ARD Official Languages". Archived from the original on 1 April 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
^ a b c Asher & Kumari 1997, p. xxiv.
^ a b "Census of India – Language". censusindia.gov.in. Archived from the original on 1 November 2021. Retrieved 17 April 2020.
^ a b Sheldon Pollock; Arvind Raghunathan (19 May 2003). Literary Cultures in History: Reconstructions from South Asia. University of California Press. pp. 449, 455–472. ISBN 978-0-520-22821-4. Archived from the original on 27 February 2020. Retrieved 18 May 2018.
A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian or South-Indian Family of Languages
Varma, A.R. Rajaraja (2005). Keralapanineeyam. Kottayam: D C Books. p. 303. ISBN 978-81-7130-672-5.
R. E. Asher; T. C. Kumari (1997). Malayalam. London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-02242-2.
^ Caldwell, Robert (1998). A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian Or South-Indian Family of Languages. Asian Educational Services. pp. 6, 16, 17–19, 20, 21–25. ISBN 978-81-206-0117-8. Malayalam is spoken along the Malabar coast, on the western side of the Ghauts, or Malaya range of mountains, from the vicinity of Kumbla near Mangalore, where it supersedes Tuļu, to Kanyakumari, where it begins to be superseded by Tamil. (Pages 6, 16, 20, 31)
"Vazhapally Temple". Vazhappally Sree Mahadeva Temple. Archived from the original on 9 January 2011. Retrieved 31 October 2009.
^ a b Eṃ Mukundan; C. Gopinathan Pillai (2004). Eng Adityan Radha And Others. Sahitya Akademi. p. 3. ISBN 978-8126018833. Archived from the original on 27 May 2013. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
^ a b "Alphabets". Government of Kerala. Archived from the original on 9 November 2009. Retrieved 29 October 2009.
^ a b Malayalam Literary Survey. Kerala Sahitya Akademi. 1993. p. 19. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
^ a b c d Vaishnavi Murthy K Y; Vinodh Rajan. "L2/17-378 Preliminary proposal to encode Tigalari script in Unicode" (PDF). unicode.org. Archived (PDF) from the original on 8 February 2018. Retrieved 28 June 2018.
^ ANI (29 November 2019). "Celebrated Malayalam poet Akkitham wins 2019 Jnanpith Award". Business Standard. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2021.
^ Naha, Abdul Latheef (24 September 2020). "Jnanpith given to Akkitham". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 22 November 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2021.
^ Official languages, UNESCO, archived from the original on 28 September 2005, retrieved 10 May 2007
^ "Prior to this relatively modern coining of "Malayalam", the identity is even more fraught, for Kerala folk more usually referred to their language as "Tamil", just as those in the dominant kingdoms of Tamilnadu, east of the Western Ghats, had from the early centuries C.E. Use of the label "Tamil" continued to overlap with that of "Malayalam" into the colonial period".[32]
"P&ARD Official Languages". Archived from the original on 1 April 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
^ a b "The Script". Malayalam Resource Centre. Archived from the original on 25 July 2011. Retrieved 20 November 2009.
The proto Dravidian alveolar stop *ṯ developed into an alveolar trill /r/ in many of the Dravidian languages while *ṯṯ and *ṉṯ remained in Malayalam.[17]
Statistics New Zealand:Language spoken (total responses) for the 1996–2006 censuses (Table 16)
Gopinathan Nair (2009), p. 682: "[...] Malayalam emerged from Proto-Tamil–Malayalam; divergence occurred over a period of four or five centuries, from the 8th century onward".
A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian Or South-Indian Family of Languages
^ "Dravidian languages." Encyclopædia Britannica. Ultimate Reference Suite. Chicago: Encyclopædia Britannica, 2008.
^ Nampoothiri, N. M. (1999), "Cultural Traditions in Medieval Kerala"[permanent dead link] (PDF) in Cherian, P. J., Perspectives on Kerala History: The Second Millennium, Kerala Council for Historical Research, ISBN 81-85499-35-7, retrieved 2009-11-20.
The geminated velars /k:/ and /ŋ:/ are sometimes palatalized word medially after /j, i(:), e(:)/like in the words കിടക്കുക [kiɖɐk:ugɐ] vs ഇരിക്കുക [iɾikʲ:ugɐ] and മങ്ങൽ [mɐŋ:ɐl] vs. മത്തങ്ങ [mɐt̪:ɐŋʲ:ɐ], their distribution is unpredictable e.g. it doesn't palatalize in vikkŭ but does in irikkŭ. If the palatalization is from /j/ it is sometimes deleted e.g. poykko can be [pojkʲːo] or [pokʲːo], aḍaykka as [ɐɖɐjkʲːɐ] or [ɐɖɐkʲːɐ]. Some of the northern dialects might pronounce them without palatalization.[99][92]
^ Statistics New Zealand:Language spoken (total responses) for the 1996–2006 censuses (Table 16), stats.govt.nz
K. M. Prabhakara Variar, ed. (1985). History of Malayalam Language. Madras: Madras University.
Lyall, Sarah (15 October 1997). "Indian's First Novel Wins Booker Prize in Britain". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 11 November 2007.
^ "City Youth Learn Dying Language, Preserve It". The New Indian Express. 9 May 2016. Archived from the original on 3 June 2016. Retrieved 9 May 2016.
Kunchan Nambiar, the founder of Thullal movement, was a prolific literary figure of the 18th century.[57]
In 1999 a group named "Rachana Akshara Vedi" produced a set of free fonts containing the entire character repertoire of more than 900 glyphs. This was announced and released along with a text editor in the same year at Thiruvananthapuram, the capital of Kerala. In 2004, the fonts were released under the GNU GPL license by Richard Stallman of the Free Software Foundation at the Cochin University of Science and Technology in Kochi, Kerala.
^ a b Alex, Shiju (22 August 2013). "മലയാള അക്കങ്ങൾ". ഗ്രന്ഥപ്പുര. Archived from the original on 2 December 2020. Retrieved 12 April 2020.
^ "'Classical' status for Malayalam". The Hindu. Thiruvananthapuram, India. 24 May 2013. Archived from the original on 27 September 2013. Retrieved 25 May 2013.
Leelavathi, Dr. M., Malayala Kavitha Sahithya Chrithram (History of Malayalam poetry)
^ The Dravidian Languages by Stanford B. Steever (1998), p. 63. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFThe_Dravidian_Languages_by_Stanford_B._Steever1998 (help)
^ a b History of Travancore by Shungunny Menon, page 28
Suriyani Malayalam (സുറിയാനി മലയാളം, ܣܘܪܝܢܝ ܡܠܝܠܡ), also known as Karshoni, Syro-Malabarica or Syriac Malayalam, is a version of Malayalam written in a variant form of the Syriac alphabet which was popular among the Saint Thomas Christians (also known as Syrian Christians or Nasranis) of Kerala in India.[130][111][78][79] It uses Malayalam grammar, the Maḏnḥāyā or "Eastern" Syriac script with special orthographic features, and vocabulary from Malayalam and East Syriac. This originated in the South Indian region of the Malabar Coast (modern-day Kerala). Until the 20th century, the script was widely used by Syrian Christians in Kerala.
And 1,00,000 as "൱൲" = hundred(൱), thousand(൲) (100×1000), 10,00,000 as "൰൱൲" = ten(൰), hundred(൱), thousand(൲) (10×100×1000) and 1,00,00,000 as "൱൱൲" = hundred(൱), hundred(൱), thousand(൲) (100×100×1000).
Scobbie, Punnoose & Khattab (2013) "Articulating five liquids: a single speaker ultrasound study of Malayalam". In Rhotics: New Data and Perspectives. BU Press, Bozen-Bolzano.
Jeseri (Lakshadweep), Arabi Malayalam, Suriyani, Judeo-Malayalam, Beary, Paniya, Mygurudu, Ravula, Aranadan, Kadar, Malapandaram, Malaryan, Malavedan, Mannan, Paliyan, Mullu Kurumba, Malankuravan and Kakkala
The Muslim dialect, also known as Arabi Malayalam, shows maximum divergence from the literary Standard Dialect of Malayalam. It is very much influenced by Arabic and Persian rather than by Sanskrit or by English. The retroflex continuant zha of the literary dialect is realised in the Muslim dialect as the palatal ya. In some other dialects of Northern Kerala too, zha of the literary dialect is realised as ya.
^ a b Amaresh Datta; Sahitya Akademi (1987). Encyclopaedia of Indian Literature: K to Navalram. Sahitya Akademi. p. 2394. ISBN 978-0836424232. Archived from the original on 27 May 2013. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
Don M. de Z. Wickremasinghe; T.N. Menon (2004). Malayalam Self-Taught. Asian Educational Services. p. 7. ISBN 978-81-206-1903-6. Archived from the original on 28 May 2016. Retrieved 15 November 2015.
^ Rajyasamacharam | Kerala Press Academy Archived 12 July 2013 at the Wayback Machine. Pressacademy.org. Retrieved 28 July 2013.
The earliest script used to write Malayalam was the Vatteluttu script.[17] The current Malayalam script is based on the Vatteluttu script, which was extended with Grantha script letters to adopt Indo-Aryan loanwords.[17][18] It bears high similarity with the Tigalari script, a historical script that was used to write the Tulu language in South Canara, and Sanskrit in the adjacent Malabar region.[19] The modern Malayalam grammar is based on the book Kerala Panineeyam written by A. R. Raja Raja Varma in late 19th century CE.[20] The first travelogue in any Indian language is the Malayalam Varthamanappusthakam, written by Paremmakkal Thoma Kathanar in 1785.[21][22]
Krishna Chaitanya (1971). A History of Malayalam Literature. New Delhi: Orient Longman. ISBN 9788125004882.
^ Statement 1: Abstract of speakers' strength of languages and mother tongues – 2011". www.censusindia.gov.in. Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India. [1] Archived 14 November 2018 at the Wayback Machine
The Unicode Standard Version 13.0 – Core Specification, South and Central Asia-I,Official Scripts of India pg. 514
Malayalam is a language spoken by the native people of southwestern India and the islands of Lakshadweep in Arabian Sea. According to the Indian census of 2011, there were 32,413,213 speakers of Malayalam in Kerala, making up 93.2% of the total number of Malayalam speakers in India, and 97.03% of the total population of the state. There were a further 701,673 (1.14% of the total number) in Karnataka, 957,705 (2.70%) in Tamil Nadu, and 406,358 (1.2%) in Maharashtra.
^ "Language". kerala.gov.in. Archived from the original on 11 October 2007. Retrieved 28 May 2007.
Erumeli Parameswaran Pillai (1966). മലയാളസാഹിത്യം കാലഘട്ടങ്ങളിലൂടെ [Malayala Sahityam Kalaghattangaliloode]. Kottayam: Vidyarthi Mithram.
"City Youth Learn Dying Language, Preserve It". The New Indian Express. 9 May 2016. Archived from the original on 3 June 2016. Retrieved 9 May 2016.
"prd-Kunchan Nambiar (1705–1770)". Department of Public Relations, Government of Kerala. 23 March 2006. Archived from the original on 23 March 2006. Retrieved 2 March 2019.
^ a b "South Asian arts". Archived from the original on 10 September 2014. Retrieved 15 September 2017.
^ Andronov, Mikhail Sergeevich. A Grammar of the Malayalam Language in Historical Treatment. Wiesbaden : Harrassowitz, 1996.
^ Scobbie, Punnoose & Khattab (2013) "Articulating five liquids: a single speaker ultrasound study of Malayalam". In Rhotics: New Data and Perspectives. BU Press, Bozen-Bolzano.
A. C. Sekhar (1953). Evolution of Malayalam. Deccan College Dissertation Series. Poona: Deccan College.
Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer (1953). കേരളസാഹിത്യചരിത്രം [Kerala Sahitya Charitram]. Trivandrum: Travancore University.
^ "*aH and *iH are demonstrative adjectives reconstructed for Proto-Dravidian, as they show variation in vowel length. When they occur in isolation they occur as ā, and ī but when they are followed by a consonant initial word then they appear as a- and i- as in Ta. appoẓutu 'that time'., : Te. appuḍu id. and Ta. ippoẓutu 'that time'., : Te.ippuḍu id. However, Modern Tamil has replaced ā, and ī with anda and inda but most Dravidian languages have preserved it."[140][page needed]
Namboodiripad, Savithry (2016). Malayalam (Namboodiri Dialect) (Thesis). Cambridge University Press. Archived from the original on 2 March 2022. Retrieved 22 December 2020.
^ "Education in Lakshadweep – Discovering the past chapters". Archived from the original on 5 October 2010. Retrieved 24 June 2010.
Malayalam Literary Survey. Kerala Sahitya Akademi. 1993. p. 19. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
Alex, Shiju (22 August 2013). "മലയാള അക്കങ്ങൾ". ഗ്രന്ഥപ്പുര. Archived from the original on 2 December 2020. Retrieved 12 April 2020.
Sreedhara Menon, A. (January 2007). Kerala Charitram (2007 ed.). Kottayam: DC Books. p. 27. ISBN 978-81-264-1588-5. Archived from the original on 13 November 2021. Retrieved 19 July 2020.
For example, Old Tamil lacks the first and second person plural pronouns with the ending kaḷ. It is in the Early Middle Tamil stage that kaḷ first appears:[42]
Caldwell, Robert (1875). A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian or South-Indian Family of Languages Archived 16 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine, second edition. London: Trübner & Co.
Old Malayalam (Pazhaya Malayalam), an inscriptional language found in Kerala from c. 9th to c. 13th century CE,[45] is the earliest attested form of Malayalam.[46][47] The beginning of the development of Old Malayalam from a western coastal dialect of contemporary Tamil (Karintamil) can be dated to c. 7th - 8th century CE.[48][17][49] It remained a west coast dialect until c. 9th century CE or a little later.[50][48] The origin of Malayalam calendar dates back to year 825 CE.[51][52][53] The formation of the language is mainly attributed to geographical separation of Kerala from the Tamil country[50] and the influence of immigrant Tulu-Canarese Brahmins in Kerala (who also knew Sanskrit and Prakrit).[46] It is generally agreed that the western coastal dialect of Tamil began to separate, diverge, and grow as a distinct language, mainly due to the heavy influence of Sanskrit and Prakrit, those became common prominent languages on Malabar Coast, when the caste system became strong in Kerala under Nambudiri Brahmins.[30]
Abha, why have you forsaken me Archived 25 May 2019 at the Wayback Machine – Times of India
[3] Archived 4 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 22 November 2014.
ന്റ is pronounced only as n̠d̠ but ൻറ can be pronounced as n̠d̠ or n̠r̠, n̠r̠ doesn't occur natively but it occurs in loans like എൻറോൾ (en̠r̠ōḷ) 'enroll' or ഹെൻറി (hen̠r̠i) 'Henry'.[100]
^ Alex, Shiju (22 August 2013). "മലയാള അക്കങ്ങൾ". ഗ്രന്ഥപ്പുര (in Malayalam). Archived from the original on 2 December 2020. Retrieved 12 April 2020.
^ Don M. de Z. Wickremasinghe; T.N. Menon (2004). Malayalam Self-Taught. Asian Educational Services. p. 7. ISBN 978-81-206-1903-6. Archived from the original on 28 May 2016. Retrieved 15 November 2015.
Hermann Gundert, (1814–1893), a German missionary and scholar of exceptional linguistic talents, played a distinguishable role in the development of Malayalam literature. His major works are Keralolpathi (1843), Pazhancholmala (1845), Malayalabhaasha Vyakaranam (1851), Paathamala (1860) the first Malayalam school text book, Kerala pazhama (1868), the first Malayalam dictionary (1872), Malayalarajyam (1879) – Geography of Kerala, Rajya Samacharam (1847 June) the first Malayalam news paper, Paschimodayam (1879) – Magazine.[160] He lived in Thalassery for around 20 years. He learned the language from well established local teachers Ooracheri Gurukkanmar from Chokli, a village near Thalassery and consulted them in works. He also translated the Bible into Malayalam.[161][162]
Mathrubhumi Yearbook Plus – 2019 (Malayalam ed.). Kozhikode: P. V. Chandran, Managing Editor, Mathrubhumi Printing & Publishing Company Limited, Kozhikode. 2018. p. 450. ASIN 8182676444.
Ayyar, Ramaswami (1936). The Evolution of Malayalam Morphology (1st ed.). Cochin, Kerala: Cochin government press. pp. 35–37.
^ Asher, R. E. and Kumari, T. C. (1997). Malayalam. Routledge Pub.: London.
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u
Around 75% of nk and 50% of ñc and nt from Old Malayalam got assimilated to ṅṅ, ññ and nn, almost all of the n̠t̠ merged with nn suggesting an earlier merger of some of the n̠t̠ and nt (for e.g. the cognate of Ta. nan̠r̠i is spelt as nandi and pronounced nanni); mp and ṇṭ were unchanged, e.g. Ta. mūṉṟu, maruntu, kañci, teṅku, Ml. mūnnŭ, marunnŭ, kaññi, teṅṅŭ.[103] Word final ai, āy and ey became a unless the word is monosyllabic, e.g. Ta. avai, māṅgāy, veṇṇey Ml. ava, māṅṅa, veṇṇa. Final āy in monosyllabic words became āya e.g. Ta. kāy, Ml. kāya.
Ager, Simon (1998). "Malayalam alphabet, pronunciation and language". Omniglot. Archived from the original on 10 May 2021. Retrieved 8 September 2009.
/m, n, ɳ , l, ɭ / are unreleased word finally.[95] Words will never begin or end with a geminated consonant. /ɻ / never occur word initially. All consonants appear word medially.[92]
Panakkal, Abbas (2016). Islam in Malabar (1460–1600) : a socio-cultural study /. Kulliyyah Islamic Revealed Knowledge and Human Sciences, International Islamic University Malaysia. Archived from the original on 27 May 2021. Retrieved 27 May 2021.
Krishna Kaimal, Aymanam (1989). Attakatha sahithyam. Trivandrum, State Institute of Language. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 1 May 2021.
Later on this system got reformed to be more similar to the Hindu-Arabic numerals so 10,00,000 in the reformed numerals it would be ൧൦൦൦൦൦൦.[118]
The letter ഫ represents both /pʰ/, a phoneme occurring in Sanskrit loanwords, and /f/, which is mostly found in comparatively recent borrowings from European languages. Though nowadays most people (especially youngsters) pronounce /pʰ/ as /f/ like in the word ഫലം /falam/.[92] In the Jesari dialect the native /p/ too spirantized to [f].[101][does it also happen with intervocalic /p/ which get voiced and /pp/?]
S. C. Bhatt and Gopal K. Bhargava (2005). Land and people of Indian states and union territories. p. 289. ISBN 978-81-7835-370-8. Archived from the original on 27 May 2016. Retrieved 15 November 2015. This Bungalow in Tellicherry ... was the residence of Dr. Herman Gundert .He lived here for 20 years
R. Leela Devi (1986). History of Kerala. Vidyarthi Mithram Press & Book Depot. p. 408. Archived from the original on 9 June 2021. Retrieved 9 June 2021.
"Prior to this relatively modern coining of "Malayalam", the identity is even more fraught, for Kerala folk more usually referred to their language as "Tamil", just as those in the dominant kingdoms of Tamilnadu, east of the Western Ghats, had from the early centuries C.E. Use of the label "Tamil" continued to overlap with that of "Malayalam" into the colonial period".[32]
The declensional paradigms for some common nouns and pronouns are given below. As Malayalam is an agglutinative language, it is difficult to delineate the cases strictly and determine how many there are, although seven or eight is the generally accepted number. Alveolar plosives and nasals (although the modern Malayalam script does not distinguish the latter from the dental nasal) are underlined for clarity, following the convention of the National Library at Kolkata romanization.
^ a b c d Namboodiripad, Savithry (2016). Malayalam (Namboodiri Dialect) (Thesis). Cambridge University Press. Archived from the original on 2 March 2022. Retrieved 22 December 2020.
For proximal form, replace the initial 'a' with an 'i'.
V. Nagam Aiya (1906). The Travancore State Manual. Travancore Government Press.
^ "Banjamin Bailey" Archived 10 February 2010 at the Wayback Machine, The Hindu, 5 February 2010
The following are examples of some of the most common declension patterns.
M. T. Narayanan, Agrarian Relations in Late Medieval Malabar Archived 3 May 2022 at the Wayback Machine (New Delhi: Northern Book Centre, 2003), xvi–xvii.
^ S. Parameshwara Aiyer, Ulloor (1990), Kerala Sahithya Chrithram (History of literature of Kerala), Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala: University of Kerala
^ Muller, Eric (2006). "Malayalam cillaksarams" (PDF). JTC1/SC2/WG2 N3126 L2/06-207. Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 November 2020. Retrieved 10 September 2009.
Barbosa, Duarte (1989). The Book of Duarte Barbosa: An Account of the countries bordering on the Indian Ocean and their inhabitants (Volume 2). Asian Educational Services. pp. 1–7. ISBN 9788120604513. Per Barbosa, Malabar begins at the point where the kingdom of Narasyngua or Vijayanagar ends, that is at Cumbola (Cambola) on the Chandragiri river.
"Census 2011 Australia – ABS Population Income". Sbs.com.au. Archived from the original on 17 July 2013. Retrieved 10 July 2013.
^ Miller, Roland. E., "Mappila" in "The Encyclopedia of Islam". Volume VI. E. J. Brill, Leiden. 1987. pp. 458–56.
When words are adopted from Sanskrit, their endings are usually changed to conform to Malayalam norms:
Johnson, Todd M.; Grim, Brian J. (2013). "Chapter 1. Global Religious Populations, 1910–2010". The World's Religions in Figures: An Introduction to International Religious Demography (PDF) (1st ed.). John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 October 2013. Retrieved 8 January 2022.
For the first 600 years of the Malayalam calendar, Malayalam literature remained in a preliminary stage. During this time, Malayalam literature consisted mainly of various genres of songs (Pattu).[57] Folk songs are the oldest literary form in Malayalam.[20] They were just oral songs.[20] Many of them were related to agricultural activities, including Pulayar Pattu, Pulluvan Pattu, Njattu Pattu, Koythu Pattu, etc.[20] Other Ballads of Folk Song period include the Vadakkan Pattukal (Northern songs) in North Malabar region and the Thekkan Pattukal (Southern songs) in Southern Travancore.[20] Some of the earliest Mappila songs (Muslim songs) were also folk songs.[20]
"The Samyojika Vibhakthi and Its Unique Application in Malayalam Grammar" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 31 July 2012. Retrieved 20 February 2012.
മനുഷ്യരെല്ലാവരും തുല്യാവകാശങ്ങളോടും അന്തസ്സോടും സ്വാതന്ത്ര്യത്തോടുംകൂടി ജനിച്ചിട്ടുള്ളവരാണ്‌. അന്യോന്യം ഭ്രാതൃഭാവത്തോടെ പെരുമാറുവാനാണ്‌ മനുഷ്യന് വിവേകബുദ്ധിയും മനസാക്ഷിയും സിദ്ധമായിരിക്കുന്നത്‌.
^ a b c d Prayer from the Past Archived 4 April 2014 at the Wayback Machine, India Today
Jayaseelan, Karattuparambil (2001). IP-internal topic and focus phrases. p. 40.
The Smile of Murugan: On Tamil Literature of South India
^ Sreedhara Menon, A. (January 2007). Kerala Charitram (2007 ed.). Kottayam: DC Books. ISBN 9788126415885. Archived from the original on 13 November 2021. Retrieved 19 July 2020.
^ "EPIGRAPHY – Inscriptions in Grantha Script". Department of Archaeology, government of Tamil Nadu. Archived from the original on 11 January 2010. Retrieved 11 November 2009.
^ Sasibhooshan, Gayathri (12 July 2012). "Historians contest antiquity of Edakkal inscriptions". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 6 December 2020. Retrieved 21 October 2020.
Assamese ·Bengali ·Bodo · Dogri · Gujarati Hindi · Kannada  · Kashmiri · Konkani · MaithiliMalayalam · Marathi · Meitei (Manipuri) · NepaliOdia · Punjabi · Sanskrit · Santali · SindhiTamil  · Telugu · Urdu
"South Asian Scripts-I" (PDF). The Unicode Standard 5.0 – Electronic Edition. Unicode, Inc. 1991–2007. pp. 42–44. Archived (PDF) from the original on 25 February 2021. Retrieved 8 September 2009.
"Malabar English Dictionary". Archived from the original on 7 September 2006.
Gopinathan Nair, B. (2009). "Malayalam".In Keith Brown; Sarah Ogilvie (eds.). Concise Encyclopedia of Languages of the World. pp. 680–683.
^ "Census of India – Data on Language". Censusindia.gov.in. Archived from the original on 10 January 2012. Retrieved 30 March 2012.
Number "11" is written as "൰൧" and not "൧൧". "32" is written as "൩൰൨" similar to the Tamil numeral system.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u Sreedhara Menon, A. (January 2007). Kerala Charitram (2007 ed.). Kottayam: DC Books. p. 27. ISBN 978-81-264-1588-5. Archived from the original on 13 November 2021. Retrieved 19 July 2020.
The travelogues written by S. K. Pottekkatt were turning point in the travelogue literature.[57] The writers like Kavalam Narayana Panicker have contributed much to Malayalam drama.[20]
^ a b c d e f g h "School of Distance Education, University of Calicut" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 8 June 2021. Retrieved 8 June 2021.
Amaresh Datta; Sahitya Akademi (1987). Encyclopaedia of Indian Literature: K to Navalram. Sahitya Akademi. p. 2394. ISBN 978-0836424232. Archived from the original on 27 May 2013. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
^ For proximal form, replace the initial 'a' with an 'i'.
^ a b Accessions List, South Asia. E.G. Smith for the U.S. Library of Congress Office, New Delhi. 1994. p. 21. Archived from the original on 2 January 2014. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
^ S. C. Bhatt and Gopal K. Bhargava (2005). Land and people of Indian states and union territories. p. 289. ISBN 978-81-7835-370-8. Archived from the original on 27 May 2016. Retrieved 15 November 2015. This Bungalow in Tellicherry ... was the residence of Dr. Herman Gundert .He lived here for 20 years
In 1957 Basheer's Pathummayude Aadu (Pathumma's Goat) brought in a new kind of prose tale, which perhaps only Basheer could handle with dexterity. The fifties thus mark the evolution of a new kind of fiction, which had its impact on the short stories as well. This was the auspicious moment for the entry of M. T. Vasudevan Nair and T. Padmanabhan upon the scene. Front runners in the post-modern trend include Kakkanadan, O. V. Vijayan, E. Harikumar, M. Mukundan and Anand.[57]
Historically, several scripts were used to write Malayalam. Among these were the Vatteluttu, Kolezhuthu and Malayanma scripts. But it was the Grantha script, another Southern Brahmi variation, which gave rise to the modern Malayalam script. The modern Malayalam script bears high similarity to Tigalari script, which was used for writing Tulu language in Coastal Karnataka (Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts) and the northernmost Kasaragod district of Kerala.[19] It is syllabic in the sense that the sequence of graphic elements means that syllables have to be read as units, though in this system the elements representing individual vowels and consonants are for the most part readily identifiable. In the 1960s Malayalam dispensed with many special letters representing less frequent conjunct consonants and combinations of the vowel /u, u:/ with different consonants.
^ Gopinathan Nair (2009), p. 682: "[...] Malayalam emerged from Proto-Tamil–Malayalam; divergence occurred over a period of four or five centuries, from the 8th century onward".
Kallen, hussain Randathani. "TRADE AND CULTURE: INDIAN OCEAN INTERACTION ON THE COAST OF MALABAR IN MEDIEVAL PERIOD". Archived from the original on 15 April 2022. Retrieved 27 May 2021. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
For example, the number "2013" is read in Malayalam as രണ്ടായിരത്തി പതിമൂന്ന് (raṇḍāyiratti padimūnnŭ). It is split into:
T. Bhaskaran (1970). Malayalam poetics with special reference to Krishnagatha (PhD Thesis). Trivandrum: Kerala University. hdl:10603/147356.
Nouns that have a stem in /-an/ and which end with a long /ā/ in the masculine nominative singular have /vŭ/ added to them, for example "Brahmā" (stem "Brahman") → "Brahmāvŭ". When the same nouns are declined in the neuter and take a short /a/ ending in Sanskrit, Malayalam adds an additional /m/, e.g. "Brahma" (neuter nominative singular of "Brahman") becomes "Brahmam". This is again omitted when forming compounds.
The Old Malayalam language was employed in several official records and transactions (at the level of the Chera Perumal kings as well as the upper-caste (Nambudiri) village temples).[46] Most of the inscriptions in Old Malayalam were found from the northern districts of Kerala, those lie adjacent to Tulu Nadu.[46] Old Malayalam was mostly written in Vatteluttu script (with Pallava/Southern Grantha characters).[46] Old Malayalam had several features distinct from the contemporary Tamil, which include the nasalisation of adjoining sounds, substitution of palatal sounds for dental sounds, contraction of vowels, and the rejection of gender verbs.[46][54][55] Ramacharitam and Thirunizhalmala are the possible literary works of Old Malayalam found so far.
Malayalam script consists of a total of 578 characters. The script contains 52 letters including 16 vowels and 36 consonants, which forms 576 syllabic characters, and contains two additional diacritic characters named anusvāra and visarga.[114][115] The earlier style of writing has been superseded by a new style as of 1981. This new script reduces the different letters for typesetting from 900 to fewer than 90. This was mainly done to include Malayalam in the keyboards of typewriters and computers.
^ "Languages in Lakshadweep". Archived from the original on 11 April 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
^ Lyall, Sarah (15 October 1997). "Indian's First Novel Wins Booker Prize in Britain". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 11 November 2007.
Krishnamurti, Bhadriraju. "Malayalam language". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 16 November 2018. Retrieved 27 October 2018.
Accessions List, South Asia. E.G. Smith for the U.S. Library of Congress Office, New Delhi. 1994. p. 21. Archived from the original on 2 January 2014. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
Asher, R. E. and Kumari, T. C. (1997). Malayalam. Routledge Pub.: London.
^ Hamann, Silke (2003). The Phonetics and Phonology of Retroflexes (PDF) (Thesis). Utrecht, Netherlands. Archived (PDF) from the original on 16 January 2021. Retrieved 13 January 2021.
"The rise and growth of Ponnani from 1498 AD To 1792 AD"
Verghese Ittiavira (1968). Social Novels in Malayalam. Bangalore: Christian Institute for the Study of Religion and Society.
Laurie Bauer, 2007, The Linguistics Student's Handbook, Edinburgh, p. 300.
Contemporary Malayalam poetry deals with social, political, and economic life context. The tendency of the modern poetry is often towards political radicalism.[148]
does it also happen with intervocalic /p/ which get voiced and /pp/?
^ a b c d A sacredlanguage is vanishing from State Archived 10 July 2013 at the Wayback Machine, The Hindu
The original Sanskrit vocative is often used in formal or poetic Malayalam, e.g. "Harē" (for "Hari") or "Prabhō" (for "Prabhu" – "Lord"). This is restricted to certain contexts – mainly when addressing deities or other exalted individuals, so a normal man named Hari would usually be addressed using a Malayalam vocative such as "Harī". The Sanskrit genitive is also occasionally found in Malayalam poetry, especially the personal pronouns "mama" ("my" or "mine") and "tava" ("thy" or "thine"). Other cases are less common and generally restricted to the realm of Maṇipravāḷam.
^ "Kollam Era" (PDF). Indian Journal History of Science. Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 May 2015. Retrieved 30 December 2014.
^ Arun Narayanan (25 October 2018). "The Charms of Poonthanam Illam". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 6 April 2021.
"Nagercoil slang was my biggest challenge: Vijay Sethupathi". The Times of India. 16 January 2017. Archived from the original on 17 November 2021. Retrieved 16 July 2021.
^ "Cherussery (Krishnagadha) malayalam author books". keralaliterature.com. Archived from the original on 7 April 2019.
^ "National Virtual Translation Center – Arabic script for malayalam". Archived from the original on 17 January 2009. Retrieved 27 May 2021.
^ a b Mathrubhumi Yearbook Plus – 2019 (Malayalam ed.). Kozhikode: P. V. Chandran, Managing Editor, Mathrubhumi Printing & Publishing Company Limited, Kozhikode. 2018. p. 450. ASIN 8182676444.
Govindankutty, A. "From Proto-Tamil-Malayalam to West Coast Dialects," 1972. Indo-Iranian Journal, Vol. XIV, Nr. 1/2, pp. 52–60.
9Literature											Toggle Literature subsection																					9.1Folk Songs																											9.2Old and Middle Malayalam																											9.3Modern Malayalam																								9.3.1Impact of European scholars																											9.3.21850–1904																														9.4Twentieth century																								9.4.1Prose																											9.4.2Poetry
^ "Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer – Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer Poems – Poem Hunter". poemhunter.com. Archived from the original on 29 July 2017. Retrieved 15 September 2017.
Malayalam has a canonical word order of SOV (subject–object–verb), as do other Dravidian languages.[105] A rare OSV word order occurs in interrogative clauses when the interrogative word is the subject.[106] Both adjectives and possessive adjectives precede the nouns they modify. Malayalam has 6[107] or 7[108][unreliable source?] grammatical cases. Verbs are conjugated for tense, mood and aspect, but not for person, gender nor number except in archaic or poetic language. The modern Malayalam grammar is based on the book Kerala Panineeyam written by A. R. Raja Raja Varma in late 19th century CE.[20]
Suriyani Malayalam Archived 11 June 2014 at the Wayback Machine, Nasrani Foundation
"Kumaran Asan – Kumaran Asan Poems – Poem Hunter". poemhunter.com. Archived from the original on 29 July 2017. Retrieved 15 September 2017.
^ Kamil Zvelebil (1973). The Smile of Murugan: On Tamil Literature of South India. BRILL. p. 3. ISBN 978-90-04-03591-1. Archived from the original on 30 March 2019. Retrieved 18 March 2018.
K. M. George (1972). Western Influence on Malayalam Language and Literature. New Delhi: Sahitya Akademi. ISBN 9788126004133.
^ Manipravalam Archived 10 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine The Information & Public Relations Department, Government of Kerala.
Sanskrit words describing things or animals rather than people with a stem in short /a/ end with an /m/ in Malayalam. For example,"Rāmāyaṇa" → "Rāmāyaṇam". In most cases, this is actually the same as the Sanskrit accusative case ending, which is also /m/ (or, allophonically, anusvara due to the requirements of the sandhi word-combining rules) in the neuter nominative. However, "things and animals" and "people" are not always differentiated based on whether or not they are sentient beings; for example, "Narasimha" becomes "Narasiṃham" and not "Narasiṃhan", whereas "Ananta" becomes "Anantan" even though both are sentient. This does not strictly correspond to the Sanskrit neuter gender, as both "Narasiṃha" and "Ananta" are masculine nouns in the original Sanskrit.
7Grammar											Toggle Grammar subsection																					7.1Nouns																											7.2Personal pronouns																											7.3Other nouns																											7.4Words adopted from Sanskrit																								7.4.1Nouns
Ayyar, Ramaswami (1936). The Evolution of Malayalam Morphology (1st ed.). Cochin, Kerala: Cochin government press. p. 2.
^ Panakkal, Abbas (2016). Islam in Malabar (1460–1600) : a socio-cultural study /. Kulliyyah Islamic Revealed Knowledge and Human Sciences, International Islamic University Malaysia. Archived from the original on 27 May 2021. Retrieved 27 May 2021.
Prior to this period, the people of Kerala usually referred to their language as 'Tamil', and both terms overlapped into the colonial period.[note 1]
^ Ayyar, Ramaswami (1936). The Evolution of Malayalam Morphology (1st ed.). Cochin, Kerala: Cochin government press. p. 2.
^ Venu Govindaraju; Srirangaraj Setlur (2009). Guide to OCR for Indic Scripts: Document Recognition and Retrieval – Advances in Pattern Recognition. Springer. p. 126. ISBN 978-1-84800-329-3. Archived from the original on 29 April 2016. Retrieved 15 November 2015.
The third quarter of the 19th century CE bore witness to the rise of a new school of poets devoted to the observation of life around them and the use of pure Malayalam. The major poets of the Venmani School were Venmani Achhan Nambudiripad (1817–1891), Venmani Mahan Nambudiripad (1844–1893), Poonthottam Achhan Nambudiri (1821–1865), Poonthottam Mahan Nambudiri (1857–1896) and the members of the Kodungallur Kovilakam (Royal Family) such as Kodungallur Kunjikkuttan Thampuran. The style of these poets became quite popular for a while and influenced even others who were not members of the group like Velutheri Kesavan Vaidyar (1839–1897) and Perunlli Krishnan Vaidyan (1863–1894). The Venmani school pioneered a style of poetry that was associated with common day themes, and the use of pure Malayalam (Pachcha Malayalam) rather than Sanskrit.[57]
K. Ayyappa Panicker (1977). A Short History of Malayalam Literature. Trivandrum: Department of Information and Public Relations, Kerala.
^ Veluthat, Kesavan (2018). "History and Historiography in Constituting a Region: The Case of Kerala". Studies in People's History. 5 (1): 13–31. doi:10.1177/2348448918759852. ISSN 2348-4489. S2CID 166060066. Archived from the original on 13 September 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021.
Words whose roots end in /-an/ but whose nominative singular ending is /-a-/ (for example, the Sanskrit root of "karma" is actually "karman") are also changed. The original root is ignored and "karma" (the form in Malayalam being "karmam" because it ends in a short /a/) is taken as the basic form of the noun when declining.[109] However, this does not apply to all consonant stems, as "unchangeable" stems such as "manas" ("mind") and "suhr̥t" ("friend") are identical to the Malayalam nominative singular forms (although the regularly derived "manam" sometimes occurs as an alternative to "manas").
S. Parameshwara Aiyer, Ulloor (1990), Kerala Sahithya Chrithram (History of literature of Kerala), Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala: University of Kerala
Tamil spoken in the Kanyakumari district has influences from Malayalam language.[81]
"The Script". Malayalam Resource Centre. Archived from the original on 25 July 2011. Retrieved 20 November 2009.
^ "Census 2011 Australia – ABS Population Income". Sbs.com.au. Archived from the original on 17 July 2013. Retrieved 10 July 2013.
It is Thunchaththu Ezhuthachan who is also credited with the development of Malayalam script into the current form through the intermixing and modification of the erstwhile scripts of Vatteluttu, Kolezhuthu, and Grantha script, which were used to write the inscriptions and literary works of Old and Middle Malayalam.[57] He further eliminated excess and unnecessary letters from the modified script.[57] Hence, Ezhuthachan is also known as The Father of modern Malayalam.[57] The development of modern Malayalam script was also heavily influenced by the Tigalari script, which was used to write Sanskrit, due to the influence of Tuluva Brahmins in Kerala.[57] The language used in the Arabi Malayalam works of 16th–17th century CE is a mixture of Modern Malayalam and Arabic.[57] They follow the syntax of modern Malayalam, though written in a modified form of Arabic script, which is known as Arabi Malayalam script.[57] P. Shangunny Menon ascribes the authorship of the medieval work Keralolpathi, which describes the Parashurama legend and the departure of the final Cheraman Perumal king to Mecca, to Thunchaththu Ramanujan Ezhuthachan.[61]
Vengayil Kunhiraman Nayanar, (1861–1914) from Thalassery was the author of first Malayalam short story, Vasanavikriti. After him innumerable world class literature works by was born in Malayalam.[57]
Vowel length is phonemic and all of the vowels have minimal pairs for example paṭṭŭ "silk", pāṭṭŭ "song", koḍi "flag", kōḍi "crore" (10 million), er̠i "throw", ēr̠i "lots"[92]
^ Visakham thirunal. [Place of publication not identified]: Duc. 2012. ISBN 978-613-9-12064-2. OCLC 940373421.
^ a b Johnson, Todd M.; Grim, Brian J. (2013). "Chapter 1. Global Religious Populations, 1910–2010". The World's Religions in Figures: An Introduction to International Religious Demography (PDF) (1st ed.). John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 October 2013. Retrieved 8 January 2022.
The Arabi Malayalam script, otherwise known as the Ponnani script,[131][132][133] is a writing system – a variant form of the Arabic script with special orthographic features – which was developed during the early medieval period and used to write Arabi Malayalam until the early 20th century CE.[134][135] Though the script originated and developed in Kerala, today it is predominantly used in Malaysia and Singapore by the migrant Muslim community.[136][137]
C. A. Innes and F. B. Evans, Malabar and Anjengo, volume 1, Madras District Gazetteers (Madras: Government Press, 1915), p. 2.
The number of Malayalam speakers in Lakshadweep is 51,100, which is only 0.15% of the total number, but is as much as about 84% of the population of Lakshadweep. Malayalam was the most spoken language in erstwhile Gudalur taluk (now Gudalur and Panthalur taluks) of Nilgiris district in Tamil Nadu which accounts for 48.8% population and it was the second most spoken language in Mangalore and Puttur taluks of South Canara accounting for 21.2% and 15.4% respectively according to 1951 census report.[86] 25.57% of the total population in the Kodagu district of Karnataka are Malayalis, and they form single largest linguistic group accounting for 35.5% in the Virajpet Taluk.[87] Around one-third of the Malayalis in Kodagu district speak the Yerava dialect according to the 2011 census, which is native to Kodagu and Wayanad.[87]
2nd person singular formal is similar to 2nd person plural.
^ "Nagercoil slang was my biggest challenge: Vijay Sethupathi". The Times of India. 16 January 2017. Archived from the original on 17 November 2021. Retrieved 16 July 2021.
"Languages in Lakshadweep". Archived from the original on 11 April 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
Subramoniam, V. I. (1997). Dravidian encyclopaedia. vol. 3, Language and literature. Thiruvananthapuram: International School of Dravidian Linguistics.Cit-P-487. Dravidian Encyclopedia Archived 29 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine
Official languages, UNESCO, archived from the original on 28 September 2005, retrieved 10 May 2007
Guide to OCR for Indic Scripts: Document Recognition and Retrieval – Advances in Pattern Recognition
Sreedhara Menon, A. (January 2007). Kerala Charitram (2007 ed.). Kottayam: DC Books. ISBN 9788126415885. Archived from the original on 13 November 2021. Retrieved 19 July 2020.
The works including Unniyachi Charitham, Unnichirudevi Charitham, and Unniyadi Charitham, are written in Middle Malayalam, those date back to 13th and 14th centuries of Common Era.[57][30] The Sandesha Kavyas of 14th century CE written in Manipravalam language include Unnuneeli Sandesam[57][30] The literary works written in Middle Malayalam were heavily influenced by Sanskrit and Prakrit, while comparing them with the modern Malayalam literature.[57][30] The word Manipravalam literally means Diamond-Coral or Ruby-Coral. The 14th-century Lilatilakam text states Manipravalam to be a Bhashya (language) where "Malayalam and Sanskrit should combine together like ruby and coral, without the least trace of any discord".[59][60] The Champu Kavyas written by Punam Nambudiri, one among the Pathinettara Kavikal (Eighteen and a half poets) in the court of the Zamorin of Calicut, also belong to Middle Malayalam.[30][57]
Alex, Shiju (22 August 2013). "മലയാള അക്കങ്ങൾ". ഗ്രന്ഥപ്പുര (in Malayalam). Archived from the original on 2 December 2020. Retrieved 12 April 2020.
[4] Archived 9 July 2021 at the Wayback Machine p=78
^ a b Krishnamurti, Bhadriraju. "Encyclopædia Britannica". Archived from the original on 7 June 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021.
^ "Dravidian". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 16 April 2017.
^ a b Ke Rāmacandr̲an Nāyar (1971). Early Manipravalam: a study. Anjali. Foreign Language Study. pp. 78
Kunchan Nambiar introduced a new literary form called Thullal, and Unnayi Variyar introduced reforms in Attakkatha literature.[57] The printing, prose literature, and Malayalam journalism, developed after the latter-half of 18th century CE. Modern literary movements in Malayalam literature began in the late 19th century with the rise of the famous Modern Triumvirate consisting of Kumaran Asan,[62] Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer[63] and Vallathol Narayana Menon.[64] In the second half of the 20th century, Jnanpith winning poets and writers like G. Sankara Kurup, S. K. Pottekkatt, Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai, M. T. Vasudevan Nair, O. N. V. Kurup, and Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri, had made valuable contributions to the modern Malayalam literature.[65][66][67][68][69] The life and works of Edasseri Govindan Nair have assumed greater socio-literary significance after his death and Edasseri is now recognised as an important poet of Malayalam.[70] Later, writers like O. V. Vijayan, Kamaladas, M. Mukundan, Arundhati Roy, Vaikom Muhammed Basheer, have gained international recognition.[71][72][73] Malayalam has also borrowed a lot of its words from various foreign languages, mainly from the Semitic languages including Arabic, and the European languages including Dutch and Portuguese, due to the long heritage of Indian Ocean trade and the Portuguese-Dutch colonisation of the Malabar Coast.[30][57]
Ayyar, L. V. Ramaswami (1936). The Evolution of Malayalam Morphology (1st ed.). Trichur: Rama Varma Research Institute. p. 3.
^ Broughton Richmond (1956), Time measurement and calendar construction, p. 218, archived from the original on 9 June 2021, retrieved 9 June 2021
"Grantha alphabet". Encyclopædia Britannica. 2009. Archived from the original on 16 December 2014. Retrieved 28 October 2009.
The origin of Malayalam remains a matter of dispute among scholars. The mainstream view holds that Malayalam descends from early Middle Tamil and separated from it sometime after the c. 9th century CE.[14] A second view argues for the development of the two languages out of "Proto-Dravidian" or "Proto-Tamil-Malayalam" in the prehistoric era,[15] although this is generally rejected by historical linguists.[16] It is generally agreed that the Quilon Syrian copper plates of 849/850 CE is the oldest available inscription written in Old Malayalam. The oldest literary work in Malayalam, distinct from the Tamil tradition, is dated from between the 9th and 11th centuries.[15]
Visakham thirunal. [Place of publication not identified]: Duc. 2012. ISBN 978-613-9-12064-2. OCLC 940373421.
Gaṅgopādhyāẏa, Subrata (2004). Symbol, Script, and Writing: From Petrogram to Printing and Further. Sharada Pub. House. p. 158. Archived from the original on 8 November 2015. Retrieved 15 November 2015.
The Indian Encyclopaedia: Biographical, Historical, Religious, Administrative, Ethnological, Commercial and Scientific. Mahi-Mewat
^ M. T. Narayanan, Agrarian Relations in Late Medieval Malabar Archived 3 May 2022 at the Wayback Machine (New Delhi: Northern Book Centre, 2003), xvi–xvii.
"Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer – Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer Poems – Poem Hunter"
Muller, Eric (2006). "Malayalam cillaksarams" (PDF). JTC1/SC2/WG2 N3126 L2/06-207. Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 November 2020. Retrieved 10 September 2009.
^ Freeman, Rich (2003). "Genre and Society: The Literary Culture of Premodern Kerala". In Literary Cultures in History: Reconstructions from South Asia
^ A. Govindankutty (1972) – From proto-Tamil-Malayalam to West Coast dialects. Indo-Iranian Journal, Vol. 14 No. (1/2), pp. 52–60
Nampoothiri, N. M. (1999), "Cultural Traditions in Medieval Kerala"[permanent dead link] (PDF) in Cherian, P. J., Perspectives on Kerala History: The Second Millennium, Kerala Council for Historical Research, ISBN 81-85499-35-7, retrieved 2009-11-20.
^ Laurie Bauer, 2007, The Linguistics Student's Handbook, Edinburgh, p. 300.
^ Rajya Samacaram, "1847 first Newspaper in Malayalam", Kerala Government
Mahadevan, Iravatham (7 June 2012). "The earliest inscription in Malayalam". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 19 June 2018. Retrieved 28 August 2018.
Just before independence, Malaya attracted many Malayalis. Large numbers of Malayalis have settled in Chennai, Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Mysuru and Delhi. Many Malayalis have also emigrated to the Middle East, the United States, and Europe. There were 179,860 speakers of Malayalam in the United States, according to the 2000 census, with the highest concentrations in Bergen County, New Jersey, and Rockland County, New York.[89] There are 144,000 of Malayalam speakers in Malaysia.[citation needed] There were 11,687 Malayalam speakers in Australia in 2016.[90] The 2001 Canadian census reported 7,070 people who listed Malayalam as their mother tongue, mainly in Toronto. The 2006 New Zealand census reported 2,139 speakers.[91] 134 Malayalam speaking households were reported in 1956 in Fiji. There is also a considerable Malayali population in the Persian Gulf regions, especially in Dubai and Doha.
Haowen Jiang (April 2010). "Malayalam: a Grammatical Sketch and a Text" (PDF). Department of Linguistics, Rice University. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 September 2012. Retrieved 8 January 2022.
The unaspirated alveolar stop also had a separate character ⟨ഺ⟩ but it has become obsolete, as the sound only occurs in geminate form (when geminated it is written with a റ below another റ ⟨റ്റ⟩) or immediately following other consonants (in these cases, റ or ററ are usually written in small size underneath the first consonant).
"August 23, 2010 Archives". Archived from the original on 27 April 2013.
Kerala (India), Dept. of Public Relations (2003), District Handbooks of Kerala: Pathanamthitta (Volume 7 of District Handbooks of Kerala, Kerala (India). Dept. of Public Relations
"Vallathol Narayana Menon – Vallathol Narayana Menon Poems – Poem Hunter". poemhunter.com. Archived from the original on 29 July 2017. Retrieved 15 September 2017.
"National Family Health Survey". rchiips.org. Archived from the original on 3 October 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2021.
"Dravidian". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 16 April 2017.
Binoy, Rasmi (27 September 2018). "The river sutra". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 21 November 2021. Retrieved 24 January 2021.
"Development of Literature". Malayalam Resource Centre. Archived from the original on 4 July 2013. Retrieved 20 November 2009.
"Malayalam not official language of Lakshadweep, no requirement to publish draft regulations in vernacular: Lakashdweep admin to Kerala High Court".
T. K. Krishna Menon (1939). A Primer of Malayalam Literature. New Delhi: Asian Educational Services. ISBN 9788120606036.
K. M. Tharakan (1990). A Brief Survey of Malayalam Literature. Kottayam: N.B.S.
^ "Wals.info". Wals.info. Archived from the original on 20 May 2011. Retrieved 20 February 2012.
Vatteluttu was in general use, but was not suitable for literature where many Sanskrit words were used. Like Tamil-Brahmi, it was originally used to write Tamil, and as such, did not have letters for voiced or aspirated consonants used in Sanskrit but not used in Tamil. For this reason, Vatteluttu and the Grantha alphabet were sometimes mixed, as in the Manipravalam. One of the oldest examples of the Manipravalam literature, Vaishikatantram (വൈശികതന്ത്രം, Vaiśikatantram), dates back to the 12th century,[124][125] where the earliest form of the Malayalam script was used, which seems to have been systematized to some extent by the first half of the 13th century.[119][122]
The earliest extant prose work in the language is a commentary in simple Malayalam, Bhashakautalyam (12th century) on Chanakya's Arthashastra. Adhyatmaramayanam by Thunchaththu Ramanujan Ezhuthachan (known as the father of modern Malayalam literature) who was born in Tirur, one of the most important works in Malayalam literature. Unnunili Sandesam written in the 14th century is amongst the oldest literary works in Malayalam language.[152] Cherusseri Namboothiri of 15th century (Kannur-based poet), Poonthanam Nambudiri of 16th century (Perinthalmanna-based poet), Unnayi Variyar of 17th–18th centuries (Thrissur-based poet), and Kunchan Nambiar of 18th century (Palakkad-based poet), have played a major role in the development of Malayalam literature into current form.[57] The words used in many of the Arabi Malayalam works, which dates back to 16th–17th centuries are also very closer to modern Malayalam language.[57] The basin of the river Bharathappuzha, which is otherwise known as River Ponnani, and its tributaries, have played a major role in the development of modern Malayalam Literature.[153][57]
^ Menon. T. Madhava. "A Handbook of Kerala, Volume 2", International School of Dravidian Linguistics, 2002. pp. 491–493.
6Sample text											Toggle Sample text subsection																					6.1English																											6.2Malayalam																											6.3Romanisation (ISO 15919)																											6.4IPA
"Official Language (Legislative) Commission". Archived from the original on 25 March 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
"TRADE AND CULTURE: INDIAN OCEAN INTERACTION ON THE COAST OF MALABAR IN MEDIEVAL PERIOD"
"Kollam Era" (PDF). Indian Journal History of Science. Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 May 2015. Retrieved 30 December 2014.
The Dravidian Languages by Stanford B. Steever (1998), p. 63. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFThe_Dravidian_Languages_by_Stanford_B._Steever1998 (help)
Karashima 2014, p. 6: Other sources date this split to the 7th and 8th centuries.
Some authors say that Malayalam has no diphthongs and /ai̯, au̯/ are clusters of V+glide j/ʋ[94] while others consider all V+glide clusters to be diphthongs /ai̯, aːi̯, au̯, ei̯, oi̯, i̯a/ as in kai, vāypa, auṣadhaṁ, cey, koy and kāryaṁ[95]
^ M. G. S. Narayanan. "Kozhikkodinte Katha". Malayalam/Essays. Mathrubhumi Books. Second Edition (2017) ISBN 978-81-8267-114-0
Many medieval liturgical texts were written in an admixture of Sanskrit and early Malayalam, called Manipravalam.[84] The influence of Sanskrit was very prominent in formal Malayalam used in the medieval literature. Malayalam has a substantially high number of Sanskrit loanwords but these are seldom used.[85]
Some speakers also have /æː/, /ɔː/, /ə/ from English loanwords e.g. /bæːŋgɨ̆/ "bank" but most speakers switch it with /aː/, /eː/ or /ja/; /oː/ or /aː/ and /e/ or /a/.[17] (See Manglish (Malayalam))
^ Cereti, C. G. (2009). "The Pahlavi Signatures on the Quilon Copper Plates".In Sundermann, W.; Hintze, A.; de Blois, F. (eds.). Exegisti Monumenta: Festschrift in Honour of Nicholas Sims-Williams. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz. ISBN 9783447059374. Archived from the original on 5 May 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021.
^ a b c d e f g h i Mathrubhumi Yearbook Plus – 2019 (Malayalam ed.). Kozhikode: P. V. Chandran, Managing Editor, Mathrubhumi Printing & Publishing Company Limited, Kozhikode. 2018. p. 454. ASIN 8182676444.
P. K. Parameswaran Nair (1956). മലയാള സാഹിത്യചരിത്രം [Malayala Sahitya Charitram]. New Delhi: Sahitya Akademi.
"History and Historiography in Constituting a Region: The Case of Kerala"
"Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 September 2012. Retrieved 30 March 2012.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
Menon, A. Sreedhara (2008). The legacy of Kerala (1st DCB ed.). Kottayam, Kerala: D C Books. ISBN 978-81-264-2157-2.
^ Ayyar, L. V. Ramaswami (1936). The Evolution of Malayalam Morphology (1st ed.). Trichur: Rama Varma Research Institute. p. 3.
Andronov, Mikhail Sergeevich (2003). A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian Languages. ISBN 9783447044554. Archived from the original on 2 October 2022. Retrieved 25 June 2022.
Rajyasamacharam | Kerala Press Academy Archived 12 July 2013 at the Wayback Machine. Pressacademy.org. Retrieved 28 July 2013.
Miller, Roland. E., "Mappila" in "The Encyclopedia of Islam". Volume VI. E. J. Brill, Leiden. 1987. pp. 458–56.
The word Malayalam originated from the words mala, meaning 'mountain', and alam, meaning 'region' or '-ship' (as in "township"); Malayalam thus translates directly as 'the mountain region'. The term Malabar was used as an alternative term for Malayalam in foreign trade circles to denote the southwestern coast of the Indian peninsula, which also means The land of hills.[24][25][26][27] The term originally referred to the western hilly land of the Chera dynasty (later Zamorins and the Kingdom of Cochin), Kingdom of Ezhimala (later Kolathunadu), and Ay kingdom (later Travancore), and only later became the name of its language.[28] The language Malayalam was alternatively called Alealum, Malayalani, Malayali, Malabari, Malean, Maliyad, Mallealle, and Kerala Bhasha until the early 19th century CE.[29][30][31]
/manuʂjaɾelːaːʋaɾum t̪uljaːʋaɡaːʃaŋːaɭoːɖum an̪d̪asːoːɖum swaːd̪an̪d̪ɾjat̪ːoːɖuŋguːɖi d͡ʒanit͡ʃːiʈːuɭːaʋaɾaːɳɨ̆ ǁ anjoːnjam bʱraːt̪rɨ̆bʱaːʋat̪t̪oːɖe peɾumaːruʋaːnaːɳɨ̆ manuʂjanɨ̆ ʋiʋeːkabud̪ːʱijum manasaːkʂijum sid̪ːʱamaːjiɾikːun̪ːad̪ɨ̆ ǁ/
Aside from the Malayalam script, the Malayalam language has been written in other scripts like Latin, Syriac[111][78][79] and Arabic. Suriyani Malayalam was used by Saint Thomas Christians (also known as Nasranis) until the 19th century.[111][78][79] Arabic scripts particularly were taught in madrasahs in Kerala and the Lakshadweep Islands.[112][113]
^ 2nd person singular formal is similar to 2nd person plural.
The Ravula is a tribal dialect of Malayalam spoken by the members of Ravula tribe who are primarily inhabitants of the Kodagu district of Karnataka.[80]
"Census of India – Data on Language". Censusindia.gov.in. Archived from the original on 10 January 2012. Retrieved 30 March 2012.
^ Andronov, Mikhail Sergeevich (2003). A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian Languages. ISBN 9783447044554. Archived from the original on 2 October 2022. Retrieved 25 June 2022.
^ "Dravidian languages – History, Grammar, Map, & Facts". Archived from the original on 9 July 2017. Retrieved 22 May 2017.
K. Ayyappa Panicker (1990). A Perspective of Malayalam Literature. Madras: Annu Chithra Publications.
^ "South Kanara, The Nilgiris, Malabar and Coimbators Districts". Archived from the original on 2 October 2022. Retrieved 29 April 2021.
Vocative forms are given in parentheses after the nominative, as the only pronominal vocatives that are used are the third person ones, which only occur in compounds.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa ab ac ad ae af ag ah ai aj ak al am an ao ap aq ar as at
^ "National Family Health Survey". rchiips.org. Archived from the original on 3 October 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2021.
^ a b c d e f Krishnamurti, Bhadriraju (2003). The Dravidian Languages. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-139-43533-8. Archived from the original on 29 July 2021. Retrieved 16 November 2020.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa ab ac ad ae af ag ah ai aj ak al am an ao ap aq ar as at Dr. K. Ayyappa Panicker (2006). A Short History of Malayalam Literature. Thiruvananthapuram: Department of Information and Public Relations, Kerala.
"*aH and *iH are demonstrative adjectives reconstructed for Proto-Dravidian, as they show variation in vowel length. When they occur in isolation they occur as ā, and ī but when they are followed by a consonant initial word then they appear as a- and i- as in Ta. appoẓutu 'that time'., : Te. appuḍu id. and Ta. ippoẓutu 'that time'., : Te.ippuḍu id. However, Modern Tamil has replaced ā, and ī with anda and inda but most Dravidian languages have preserved it."[140][page needed]
^ R. Leela Devi (1986). History of Kerala. Vidyarthi Mithram Press & Book Depot. p. 408. Archived from the original on 9 June 2021. Retrieved 9 June 2021.
Narayanan, M. G. S. (2013). Perumals of Kerala. Thrissur: CosmoBooks. pp. 380–82. ISBN 9788188765072. Archived from the original on 7 June 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021.
"Kerala / Kozhikode News : Copy of first book printed in Kerala released". The Hindu. 14 October 2005. Archived from the original on 27 March 2010. Retrieved 30 March 2012.
Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai turned away from party politics and produced a moving romance in Chemmeen (Shrimps) in 1956. For S. K. Pottekkatt and Vaikom Muhammad Basheer, who had not dabbled in politics, the continuity is marked in the former's Vishakanyaka (Poison Maid, 1948) and the latter's Ntuppuppakkoranendarnnu (My Grandpa had an Elephant, 1951). The non-political social or domestic novel was championed by P. C. Kuttikrishnan (Uroob) with his Ummachu (1955) and Sundarikalum Sundaranmarum (Men and Women of Charm, 1958).[57]
"Syro Malabar Church". Archived from the original on 17 March 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
"Alphabets". Government of Kerala. Archived from the original on 9 November 2009. Retrieved 29 October 2009.
Cereti, C. G. (2009). "The Pahlavi Signatures on the Quilon Copper Plates".In Sundermann, W.; Hintze, A.; de Blois, F. (eds.). Exegisti Monumenta: Festschrift in Honour of Nicholas Sims-Williams. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz. ISBN 9783447059374. Archived from the original on 5 May 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021.
Ganga Ram Garg (1988). International Encyclopaedia of Indian Literature. Vol. 6. Delhi: Mittal Publications.
The dialects of Malayalam spoken in the districts like Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode, and Malappuram in the former Malabar District have few influences from Kannada.[30] For example, the words those start with the sound "V" in Malayalam become "B" in these districts as in Kannada.[30] Also the Voiced retroflex approximant (/ɻ/) which is seen in both Tamil and the standard form of Malayalam, are not seen in the northern dialects of Malayalam, as in Kannada.[30] For example, the words Vazhi (Path), Vili (Call), Vere (Another), and Vaa (Come/Mouth), become Bayi, Bili, Bere, and Baa in the northern dialects of Malayalam.[30] Similarly the Malayalam spoken in the southern districts of Kerala, i.e., Thiruvananthapuram-Kollam-Pathanamthitta area is influenced by Tamil.[30]
^ a b Amit Chaudhuri (2008). Clearing a Space: Reflections on India, Literature, and Culture. Peter Lang. pp. 44–45. ISBN 978-1906165017. Archived from the original on 27 May 2013. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
"Vallathol Narayana Menon – Vallathol Narayana Menon Poems – Poem Hunter"
Another variant form, Malayanma, was used in the south of Thiruvananthapuram.[123] By the 19th century, old scripts like Kolezhuthu had been supplanted by Arya-eluttu – that is the current Malayalam script. Nowadays, it is widely used in the press of the Malayali population in Kerala.[126]
Some Arabic loanwords like adālattŭ (court of justice), jāmyaṃ (bail), japti (foreclosure), jilla (district), tālukkŭ (subdistrict), etc., are used in the formal literary Malayalam for administrative purposes.
^ Leelavathi, Dr. M., Malayala Kavitha Sahithya Chrithram (History of Malayalam poetry)
^ "Malabar English Dictionary". Archived from the original on 7 September 2006.
Barbosa, Duarte; Dames, Mansel Longworth (1918). "PDF.js viewer" (PDF). indianculture.gov.in. Asian Educational Services. pp. 194–198. Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 April 2022. Retrieved 24 April 2022.
^ a b Ed. Vinod Kumar Maheshwari (2002). Perspectives on Indian English Literature. Atlantic Publishers & Dist. p. 126. ISBN 978-8126900930. Archived from the original on 2 January 2014. Retrieved 18 November 2012.
Lexical items with phonological features reminiscent of Sanskrit (e.g., viddhi meaning 'fool'), bhosku 'lie', musku 'impudence', dustu 'impurity', and eebhyan and sumbhan (both meaning 'good-for-nothing fellow') abound in Nampoothiri dialect.[76]
Hamann, Silke (2003). The Phonetics and Phonology of Retroflexes (PDF) (Thesis). Utrecht, Netherlands. Archived (PDF) from the original on 16 January 2021. Retrieved 13 January 2021.
2History											Toggle History subsection																					2.1Old Malayalam																											2.2Middle Malayalam																											2.3Modern Malayalam
Malayalam has incorporated many elements from other languages over the years, the most notable of these being Sanskrit and later, English.[82] According to Sooranad Kunjan Pillai who compiled the authoritative Malayalam lexicon, the other principal languages whose vocabulary was incorporated over the ages were Arabic, Dutch, Hindustani, Pali, Persian, Portuguese, Prakrit, and Syriac.[83]
Manipravalam Archived 10 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine The Information & Public Relations Department, Government of Kerala.
"History of Malayalam Literature". Archived from the original on 4 July 2013. Retrieved 19 March 2014.
According to Arthur Coke Burnell, one form of the Grantha alphabet, originally used in the Chola dynasty, was imported into the southwest coast of India in the 8th or 9th century, which was then modified in course of time in this secluded area, where communication with the east coast was very limited.[127] It later evolved into Tigalari-Malayalam script was used by the Malayali, Havyaka Brahmins and Tulu Brahmin people, but was originally only applied to write Sanskrit. This script split into two scripts: Tigalari and Malayalam. While Malayalam script was extended and modified to write vernacular language Malayalam, the Tigalari was written for Sanskrit only.[127][128] In Malabar, this writing system was termed Arya-eluttu (ആര്യ എഴുത്ത്, Ārya eḻuttŭ),[129] meaning "Arya writing" (Sanskrit is Indo-Aryan language while Malayalam is a Dravidian language).
Robert Caldwell, in his 1856 book "A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian or South-Indian Family of Languages", opined that literary Malayalam branched from Classical Tamil and over time gained a large amount of Sanskrit vocabulary and lost the personal terminations of verbs.[28] As the language of scholarship and administration, Old-Tamil, which was written in Tamil-Brahmi and the Vatteluttu alphabet later, greatly influenced the early development of Malayalam as a literary language. The Malayalam script began to diverge from the Vatteluttu and the Western Grantha scripts in the 8th and 9th centuries of Common Era. And by the end of the 13th century a written form of the language emerged which was unique from the Vatteluttu script that was used to write Tamil on the eastern coast.[44]
"School of Distance Education, University of Calicut" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 8 June 2021. Retrieved 8 June 2021.
All non geminated voiceless stops and affricate become voiced in intervocalic position like in Tamil but unlike Tamil it doesn't spirantize, it remains a stop; e.g. makaṉ Ml. [mɐgɐn] Ta. [mɐɣɐn]; it also gets voiced after a nasal.[92][17]
^ a b Caldwell, Robert (1875). A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian or South-Indian Family of Languages Archived 16 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine, second edition. London: Trübner & Co.
^ "Vallathol Narayana Menon – Vallathol Narayana Menon Poems – Poem Hunter". poemhunter.com. Archived from the original on 29 July 2017. Retrieved 15 September 2017.
^ a b Ayyar, Ramaswami (1936). The Evolution of Malayalam Morphology (1st ed.). Cochin, Kerala: Cochin government press. pp. 1–37.
Krishnamurti, Bhadriraju (2003). The Dravidian Languages. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-139-43533-8. Archived from the original on 29 July 2021. Retrieved 16 November 2020.
Malayalam (Namboodiri Dialect) Archived 28 October 2020 at the Wayback Machine – Cambridge University Press
"The DHS Program – India: Standard DHS, 2015–16". dhsprogram.com. Archived from the original on 21 October 2020. Retrieved 12 June 2021.
^ "Grantha alphabet". Encyclopædia Britannica. 2009. Archived from the original on 16 December 2014. Retrieved 28 October 2009.
The early literature of Malayalam comprised three types of composition:[57]Malayalam Nada, Tamil Nada and Sanskrit Nada.[57]
Nouns with short vowel stems other than /a/, such as "Viṣṇu", "Prajāpati" etc. are declined with the Sanskrit stem acting as the Malayalam nominative singular (the Sanskrit nominative singular is formed by adding a visarga, e.g., as in "Viṣṇuḥ")
Narayanan, M. G. S. (2013) [1972]. Perumals of Kerala: Brahmin Oligarchy and Ritual Monarchy. Thrissur (Kerala): CosmoBooks. ISBN 9788188765072. Archived from the original on 7 June 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021.
Rarely some speakers pronounce the voiced aspirated consonants as voiceless so words like dhaṉam as thaṉam, it is more commonly deaspirated so dhaṉam as daṉam and kharam as karam, intervocalically the voiceless aspirate also becomes voiced so mukham as mugam.[104]
^ Varma, A.R. Rajaraja (2005). Keralapanineeyam. Kottayam: D C Books. pp. 301–302. ISBN 978-81-7130-672-5.
Andronov, Mikhail Sergeevich. A Grammar of the Malayalam Language in Historical Treatment. Wiesbaden : Harrassowitz, 1996.
Ke Rāmacandr̲an Nāyar (1971). Early Manipravalam: a study. Anjali. Foreign Language Study. pp. 78
This page was last edited on 15 March 2023, at 19:00 (UTC).
Vaishnavi Murthy K Y; Vinodh Rajan. "L2/17-378 Preliminary proposal to encode Tigalari script in Unicode" (PDF). unicode.org. Archived (PDF) from the original on 8 February 2018. Retrieved 28 June 2018.
^ Narayanan, M. G. S. (1972). Cultural Symbiosis in Kerala. Kerala: Kerala Historical Society. p. 18.
The Muslim dialect known as Mappila Malayalam is predominantly in the northern districts of Kerala. Another Muslim dialect called Beary bashe is used in the extreme northern part of Kerala along with the southern part of Karnataka in a former region called Tulu Nadu.
^ "History of Malayalam Literature". Archived from the original on 4 July 2013. Retrieved 19 March 2014.
^ C. A. Innes and F. B. Evans, Malabar and Anjengo, volume 1, Madras District Gazetteers (Madras: Government Press, 1915), p. 2.
Herman Gundert | Kerala Press Academy Archived 14 May 2013 at the Wayback Machine. Pressacademy.org. Retrieved 28 July 2013.
Malayalam was first written in Vattezhuthu. The Vazhappally inscription issued by Rajashekhara Varman is the earliest example, dating from about 830 CE.[119][120] During the medieval period, the Tigalari script that was used for writing Tulu in South Canara, and Sanskrit in the adjacent Malabar region, had a close similarity to the modern Malayalam script.[19] In the Tamil country, the modern Tamil script had supplanted Vattezhuthu by the 15th century, but in the Malabar region, Vattezhuthu remained in general use up to the 17th century,[121] or the 18th century.[122] A variant form of this script, Kolezhuthu, was used until about the 19th century mainly in the Malabar-Cochin area.[123]
^ a b c d "Ethnologue report for language code: mal". Ethnologue.com. Archived from the original on 28 June 2013. Retrieved 20 February 2012.
"Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer – Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer Poems – Poem Hunter". poemhunter.com. Archived from the original on 29 July 2017. Retrieved 15 September 2017.
Indeed, most features of Malayalam morphology are derivable from a form of speech corresponding to early Middle Tamil.[43]
Kamil Zvelebil (1973). The Smile of Murugan: On Tamil Literature of South India. BRILL. p. 3. ISBN 978-90-04-03591-1. Archived from the original on 30 March 2019. Retrieved 18 March 2018.
"EPIGRAPHY – Inscriptions in Grantha Script". Department of Archaeology, government of Tamil Nadu. Archived from the original on 11 January 2010. Retrieved 11 November 2009.
Venu Govindaraju; Srirangaraj Setlur (2009). Guide to OCR for Indic Scripts: Document Recognition and Retrieval – Advances in Pattern Recognition. Springer. p. 126. ISBN 978-1-84800-329-3. Archived from the original on 29 April 2016. Retrieved 15 November 2015.
^ "Syro Malabar Church". Archived from the original on 17 March 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2015.
^ Jayaseelan, Karattuparambil (2001). IP-internal topic and focus phrases. p. 40.
"Dravidian languages – History, Grammar, Map, & Facts". Archived from the original on 9 July 2017. Retrieved 22 May 2017.
"'Classical' status for Malayalam". The Hindu. Thiruvananthapuram, India. 24 May 2013. Archived from the original on 27 September 2013. Retrieved 25 May 2013.
S.V. Shanmugam (1976). "Formation and Development of Malayalam", Indian Literature, Vol. 19, No. 3 (May–June 1976), pp. 5–30. JSTOR 24157306 "Yet, some scholars of Malayalam still believe that Malayalam should have originated independently from the Proto-Dravidian at a very early stage [...] The native scholars are unwilling to accept Malayalam as an ausbau language; instead they take it to be an abstand language 'language by distance' contrary to historical evidence (pp.9–10)".
Loanwords with /z/ are switched with /s/ but not /d͡ʒ/ like in Hindi or Telugu e.g. /brasi:l/ En. "Brazil" unless it was loaned through Hindi then the Hindi pronunciation is taken e.g. /d͡ʒilːa/ Hi. /d͡ʒilaː/ Per. /zilʔ/, other Perso-Arabic phonemes like /q, x, ɣ, ħ, Cˤ, ʕ, ʔ/ are switched with /k, kʰ, g, h, C, ∅, ∅/, sometimes /q, x/ are switched with /kʰ, k/ e.g. قطر (Qaṭar) as ഖത്തർ (khattaṟ) and Arb. خَطّ‎ (xaṭṭ) as കത്ത് (kattŭ). English loans with /θ, ð, ʒ/ are switched with /t̪, d̪, ʃ/; the dentals do not clash with English loans with /t, d/, which are switched with [t, d] or [ʈ, ɖ] though [d] is rare because of the limited distribution natively e.g. "taxi" as ṯāksi or more commonly ṭāksi. The English /ɹ/ is loaned as either /ɾ/ or /r/ unpredictably, for e.g. 'current' got loaned as karaṇḍŭ but 'maroon' got loaned as 'mar̠ūṇ' or 'mer̠ūṇ' but the cluster /ɹs/ is loaned as /ɻs/ other clusters are loaned as /rC/ or /ɾC/, /ɻ/ only occurs in words with /ɹs/ e.g. 'force' as fōḻsŭ. Speakers with non rhotic English accents don't have /ɹC/ clusters in English loans and pronounce it as fōs(ŭ). In Sanskrit loans with /t̪C/ and /d̪C/ (unless C is a sonorant or a dental stop) sometimes the /t̪, d̪/ becomes /l/ especially in /t̪s/ e.g. utsava > ulsavam, utpādana > ulpādaṉam, udghāṭana > ulghāḍaṉam. There are some native words with /s/ (urasŭ) and /ʃ/ (vīśŭ) but rest of the fricatives (except /f/ in native words of Jesari) and aspirates are only found in loans.
Krishnamurti, Bhadriraju. "Encyclopædia Britannica". Archived from the original on 7 June 2021. Retrieved 7 June 2021.
The IDF is controlled by a Board elected by the members of the Foundation, with an appointed Managing Agent who is responsible for co-ordinating and planning its activities. Membership is open to all organizations with an interest in electronic publishing and related enabling technologies. The IDF holds annual open meetings on the topics of DOI and related issues.
^ Green, T. (2009). "We Need Publishing Standards for Datasets and Data Tables". Research Information. doi:10.1787/603233448430.
^ "DONA Foundation Multi-Primary Administrators". Archived from the original on 14 January 2017. Retrieved 7 February 2017.
Since DOI is a namespace within the Handle System, it is semantically correct to represent it as the URI info:doi/10.1000/182.
A DOI aims to resolve to its target, the information object to which the DOI refers. This is achieved by binding the DOI to metadata about the object, such as a URL where the object is located. Thus, by being actionable and interoperable, a DOI differs from ISBNs or ISRCs which are identifiers only. The DOI system uses the indecs Content Model for representing metadata.
"Resolving DOI Based URNs Using Squid: An Experimental System at UKOLN"
An alternative to HTTP proxies is to use one of a number of add-ons and plug-ins for browsers, thereby avoiding the conversion of the DOIs to URLs,[34] which depend on domain names and may be subject to change, while still allowing the DOI to be treated as a normal hyperlink. A disadvantage of this approach for publishers is that, at least at present, most users will be encountering the DOIs in a browser, mail reader, or other software which does not have one of these plug-ins installed.
"DOAI". CAPSH (Committee for the Accessibility of Publications in Sciences and Humanities). Retrieved 6 August 2016.
"Factsheets". DOI. Archived from the original on 25 December 2022.
A digital object identifier (DOI) is a persistent identifier or handle used to uniquely identify various objects, standardized by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).[1] DOIs are an implementation of the Handle System;[2][3] they also fit within the URI system (Uniform Resource Identifier). They are widely used to identify academic, professional, and government information, such as journal articles, research reports, data sets, and official publications. DOIs have also been used to identify other types of information resources, such as commercial videos.
^ Timmer, John (6 March 2010). "DOIs and their discontents". Ars Technica. Retrieved 5 March 2013.
"Overviews & Standards – Standards and Specifications: 1. ISO TC46/SC9 Standards"
This page was last edited on 6 March 2023, at 23:12 (UTC).
The CrossRef recommendation is primarily based on the assumption that the DOI is being displayed without being hyperlinked to its appropriate URL – the argument being that without the hyperlink it is not as easy to copy-and-paste the full URL to actually bring up the page for the DOI, thus the entire URL should be displayed, allowing people viewing the page containing the DOI to copy-and-paste the URL, by hand, into a new window/tab in their browser in order to go to the appropriate page for the document the DOI represents.[20]
Registration agencies generally charge a fee to assign a new DOI name; parts of these fees are used to support the IDF. The DOI system overall, through the IDF, operates on a not-for-profit cost recovery basis.
A DOI name also differs from standard identifier registries such as the ISBN, ISRC, etc. The purpose of an identifier registry is to manage a given collection of identifiers, whereas the primary purpose of the DOI system is to make a collection of identifiers actionable and interoperable, where that collection can include identifiers from many other controlled collections.[29]
^ Liu, Jia (2021). "Digital Object Identifier (DOI) Under the Context of Research Data Librarianship". Journal of eScience Librarianship. 10 (2): Article e1180. doi:10.7191/jeslib.2021.1180.
Permanent global identifiers for both commercial and non-commercial audio/visual content titles, edits, and manifestations through the Entertainment ID Registry, commonly known as EIDR.
Witten, Ian H.; Bainbridge, David & Nichols, David M. (2010). How to Build a Digital Library (2nd ed.). Morgan Kaufmann. pp. 352–253. ISBN 978-0-12-374857-7.
^ Langston, Marc; Tyler, James (2004). "Linking to Journal Articles in an Online Teaching Environment: The Persistent Link, DOI, and OpenURL". The Internet and Higher Education. 7 (1): 51–58. doi:10.1016/j.iheduc.2003.11.004.
The International DOI Foundation (IDF) oversees the integration of these technologies and operation of the system through a technical and social infrastructure. The social infrastructure of a federation of independent registration agencies offering DOI services was modelled on existing successful federated deployments of identifiers such as GS1 and ISBN.
^ "How the "Digital Object Identifier" Works". BusinessWeek. 23 July 2001. Archived from the original on 2 October 2010. Retrieved 20 April 2010. Assuming the publishers do their job of maintaining the databases, these centralized references, unlike current web links, should never become outdated or broken
^ "Factsheet—Key Facts on Digital Object Identifier System". doi.org. International DOI Foundation. 6 June 2016. Retrieved 10 June 2016. Over 18,000 DOI name prefixes within the DOI System
^ "The Handle System". Handle.Net Registry. Archived from the original on 7 January 2023.
Piwowar, Heather (25 October 2016). "Introducing oaDOI: resolve a DOI straight to OA". Retrieved 17 March 2017.
Contrary to the DOI Handbook, CrossRef, a major DOI registration agency, recommends displaying a URL (for example, https://doi.org/10.1000/182) instead of the officially specified format (for example, doi:10.1000/182)[17][18] This URL is persistent (there is a contract that ensures persistence in the DOI.ORG domain), so it is a PURL – providing the location of an HTTP proxy server which will redirect web accesses to the correct online location of the linked item.[9][19]
"Assigning Digital Object Identifiers to RFCs § DOIs for RFCs"
"ISO 26324:2012(en), Information and documentation – Digital object identifier system". ISO. Retrieved 20 April 2016.
International DOI Foundation (7 August 2014). "Resolution". DOI Handbook. Retrieved 19 March 2015.
The DOI syntax is a NISO standard, first standardised in 2000, ANSI/NISO Z39.84-2005 Syntax for the Digital Object Identifier.[41]
A DOI name does not depend on the object's location and, in this way, is similar to a Uniform Resource Name (URN) or PURL but differs from an ordinary URL. URLs are often used as substitute identifiers for documents on the Internet although the same document at two different locations has two URLs. By contrast, persistent identifiers such as DOI names identify objects as first class entities: two instances of the same object would have the same DOI name.
Scholarly materials (journal articles, books, ebooks, etc.) through Crossref, a consortium of around 3,000 publishers; Airiti, a leading provider of Chinese and Taiwanese electronic academic journals; and the Japan Link Center (JaLC) [21] an organization providing link management and DOI assignment for electronic academic journals in Japanese.
^ ChrissieCW. "Crossref Revises DOI Display Guidelines - Crossref". www.crossref.org.
"DOI System and standard identifier registries". Doi.org. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
Other registries include Crossref and the multilingual European DOI Registration Agency (mEDRA).[23] Since 2015, RFCs can be referenced as doi:10.17487/rfc....[24]
The official DOI Handbook explicitly states that DOIs should display on screens and in print in the format doi:10.1000/182.[16]
Other registries are identified by other strings at the start of the prefix. Handle names that begin with "100." are also in use, as for example in the following citation: Hammond, Joseph L. Jr.; Brown, James E.; Liu, Shyan-Shiang S. (May 1975). "Development of a Transmission Error Model and an Error Control Model l". Technical Report RADC-TR-75-138. Rome Air Development Center. Bibcode:1975STIN...7615344H. hdl:100.2/ADA013939. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Green, T. (2009). "We Need Publishing Standards for Datasets and Data Tables". Research Information. doi:10.1787/603233448430.
^ "DOI System and standard identifier registries". Doi.org. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
URN architecture assumes a DNS-based Resolution Discovery Service (RDS) to find the service appropriate to the given URN scheme. However no such widely deployed RDS schemes currently exist.... DOI is not registered as a URN namespace, despite fulfilling all the functional requirements, since URN registration appears to offer no advantage to the DOI System. It requires an additional layer of administration for defining DOI as a URN namespace (the string urn:doi:10.1000/1 rather than the simpler doi:10.1000/1) and an additional step of unnecessary redirection to access the resolution service, already achieved through either http proxy or native resolution. If RDS mechanisms supporting URN specifications become widely available, DOI will be registered as a URN.
"How the "Digital Object Identifier" Works". BusinessWeek. 23 July 2001. Archived from the original on 2 October 2010. Retrieved 20 April 2010. Assuming the publishers do their job of maintaining the databases, these centralized references, unlike current web links, should never become outdated or broken
^ Other registries are identified by other strings at the start of the prefix. Handle names that begin with "100." are also in use, as for example in the following citation: Hammond, Joseph L. Jr.; Brown, James E.; Liu, Shyan-Shiang S. (May 1975). "Development of a Transmission Error Model and an Error Control Model l". Technical Report RADC-TR-75-138. Rome Air Development Center. Bibcode:1975STIN...7615344H. hdl:100.2/ADA013939. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
"DOI News, April 2011: 1. DOI System exceeds 50 million assigned identifiers"
^ Witten, Ian H.; Bainbridge, David & Nichols, David M. (2010). How to Build a Digital Library (2nd ed.). Morgan Kaufmann. pp. 352–253. ISBN 978-0-12-374857-7.
The International DOI Foundation (IDF), a non-profit organisation created in 1998, is the governance body of the DOI system.[35] It safeguards all intellectual property rights relating to the DOI system, manages common operational features, and supports the development and promotion of the DOI system. The IDF ensures that any improvements made to the DOI system (including creation, maintenance, registration, resolution and policymaking of DOI names) are available to any DOI registrant. It also prevents third parties from imposing additional licensing requirements beyond those of the IDF on users of the DOI system.
"DOI Handbook – Numbering". doi.org. 13 February 2014. Section 2.6.1 Screen and print presentation. Archived from the original on 30 June 2014. Retrieved 30 June 2014.
To resolve a DOI name, it may be input to a DOI resolver, such as doi.org.
Schonfeld, Roger C. (3 March 2016). "Co-opting 'Official' Channels through Infrastructures for Openness". The Scholarly Kitchen. Retrieved 17 October 2016.
^ "Frequently asked questions about the DOI system: 6. What can a DOI name be assigned to?". International DOI Foundation. 3 July 2018 [update of earlier version]. Retrieved 19 July 2018. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
The names can refer to objects at varying levels of detail: thus DOI names can identify a journal, an individual issue of a journal, an individual article in the journal, or a single table in that article. The choice of level of detail is left to the assigner, but in the DOI system it must be declared as part of the metadata that is associated with a DOI name, using a data dictionary based on the indecs Content Model.
"DOI Handbook—2 Numbering". doi.org. International DOI Foundation. 1 February 2016. Retrieved 10 June 2016. The registrant code may be further divided into sub-elements for administrative convenience if desired. Each sub-element of the registrant code shall be preceded by a full stop.
"ISO 26324:2012(en), Information and documentation – Digital object identifier system"
"DONA Foundation Multi-Primary Administrators". Archived from the original on 14 January 2017. Retrieved 7 February 2017.
^ "Welcome to the DOI System". Doi.org. 28 June 2010. Archived from the original on 13 August 2010. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
Franklin, Jack (2003). "Open access to scientific and technical information: the state of the art".In Grüttemeier, Herbert; Mahon, Barry (eds.). Open access to scientific and technical information: state of the art and future trends. IOS Press. p. 74. ISBN 978-1-58603-377-4.
Other DOI resolvers and HTTP Proxies include the Handle System and PANGAEA. At the beginning of the year 2016, a new class of alternative DOI resolvers was started by http://doai.io. This service is unusual in that it tries to find a non-paywalled (often author archived) version of a title and redirects the user to that instead of the publisher's version.[31][32] Since then, other open-access favoring DOI resolvers have been created, notably https://oadoi.org/ in October 2016[33] (later Unpaywall). While traditional DOI resolvers solely rely on the Handle System, alternative DOI resolvers first consult open access resources such as BASE (Bielefeld Academic Search Engine).[31][33]
The DOI system offers persistent, semantically interoperable resolution to related current data and is best suited to material that will be used in services outside the direct control of the issuing assigner (e.g., public citation or managing content of value). It uses a managed registry (providing social and technical infrastructure). It does not assume any specific business model for the provision of identifiers or services and enables other existing services to link to it in defined ways. Several approaches for making identifiers persistent have been proposed. The comparison of persistent identifier approaches is difficult because they are not all doing the same thing. Imprecisely referring to a set of schemes as "identifiers" doesn't mean that they can be compared easily. Other "identifier systems" may be enabling technologies with low barriers to entry, providing an easy to use labeling mechanism that allows anyone to set up a new instance (examples include Persistent Uniform Resource Locator (PURL), URLs, Globally Unique Identifiers (GUIDs), etc.), but may lack some of the functionality of a registry-controlled scheme and will usually lack accompanying metadata in a controlled scheme. The DOI system does not have this approach and should not be compared directly to such identifier schemes. Various applications using such enabling technologies with added features have been devised that meet some of the features offered by the DOI system for specific sectors (e.g., ARK).
DeRisi, Susanne; Kennison, Rebecca; Twyman, Nick (2003). "Editorial: The what and whys of DOIs". PLoS Biology. 1 (2): e57. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.0000057. PMC 261894. PMID 14624257.
Powell, Andy (June 1998). "Resolving DOI Based URNs Using Squid: An Experimental System at UKOLN". D-Lib Magazine. doi:10.1045/june98-powell. ISSN 1082-9873.
"about_the_doi.html DOI Standards and Specifications". Doi.org. 28 June 2010. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
Short DOI – DOI Foundation service for converting long DOIs to shorter equivalents
^ "Digital object identifier (DOI) becomes an ISO standard". iso.org. 10 May 2012. Retrieved 10 May 2012.
^ "DOI News, April 2011: 1. DOI System exceeds 50 million assigned identifiers". Doi.org. 20 April 2011. Archived from the original on 27 July 2011. Retrieved 3 July 2011.
Registration agencies, appointed by the IDF, provide services to DOI registrants: they allocate DOI prefixes, register DOI names, and provide the necessary infrastructure to allow registrants to declare and maintain metadata and state data. Registration agencies are also expected to actively promote the widespread adoption of the DOI system, to cooperate with the IDF in the development of the DOI system as a whole, and to provide services on behalf of their specific user community. A list of current RAs is maintained by the International DOI Foundation. The IDF is recognized as one of the federated registrars for the Handle System by the DONA Foundation (of which the IDF is a board member), and is responsible for assigning Handle System prefixes under the top-level 10 prefix.[36]
^ "Overviews & Standards – Standards and Specifications: 1. ISO TC46/SC9 Standards". Doi.org. 18 November 2010. Retrieved 3 July 2011.
A DOI is a type of Handle System handle, which takes the form of a character string divided into two parts, a prefix and a suffix, separated by a slash.
"Development of a Transmission Error Model and an Error Control Model l"
A DOI name differs from commonly used Internet pointers to material, such as the Uniform Resource Locator (URL), in that it identifies an object itself as a first-class entity, rather than the specific place where the object is located at a certain time. It implements the Uniform Resource Identifier (Uniform Resource Name) concept and adds to it a data model and social infrastructure.[28]
^ "DOI System and Internet Identifier Specifications". Doi.org. 18 May 2010. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
^ a b Piwowar, Heather (25 October 2016). "Introducing oaDOI: resolve a DOI straight to OA". Retrieved 17 March 2017.
"Overviews & Standards – Standards and Specifications: 1. ISO TC46/SC9 Standards". Doi.org. 18 November 2010. Retrieved 3 July 2011.
^ "Chapter 7: The International DOI Foundation". DOI Handbook. Doi.org. Retrieved 8 July 2015.
In the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's publication service OECD iLibrary, each table or graph in an OECD publication is shown with a DOI name that leads to an Excel file of data underlying the tables and graphs. Further development of such services is planned.[22]
^ Franklin, Jack (2003). "Open access to scientific and technical information: the state of the art".In Grüttemeier, Herbert; Mahon, Barry (eds.). Open access to scientific and technical information: state of the art and future trends. IOS Press. p. 74. ISBN 978-1-58603-377-4.
Research datasets through Datacite, a consortium of leading research libraries, technical information providers, and scientific data centers;
^ Schonfeld, Roger C. (3 March 2016). "Co-opting 'Official' Channels through Infrastructures for Openness". The Scholarly Kitchen. Retrieved 17 October 2016.
^ "ANSI/NISO Z39.84-2005 Syntax for the Digital Object Identifier" (PDF). National Information Standards Organization. Retrieved 25 June 2021.
"DOI News, April 2011: 1. DOI System exceeds 50 million assigned identifiers". Doi.org. 20 April 2011. Archived from the original on 27 July 2011. Retrieved 3 July 2011.
^ DeRisi, Susanne; Kennison, Rebecca; Twyman, Nick (2003). "Editorial: The what and whys of DOIs". PLoS Biology. 1 (2): e57. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.0000057. PMC 261894. PMID 14624257.
DOI name resolution is provided through the Handle System, developed by Corporation for National Research Initiatives, and is freely available to any user encountering a DOI name. Resolution redirects the user from a DOI name to one or more pieces of typed data: URLs representing instances of the object, services such as e-mail, or one or more items of metadata. To the Handle System, a DOI name is a handle, and so has a set of values assigned to it and may be thought of as a record that consists of a group of fields. Each handle value must have a data type specified in its  field, which defines the syntax and semantics of its data. While a DOI persistently and uniquely identifies the object to which it is assigned, DOI resolution may not be persistent, due to technical and administrative issues.
Liu, Jia (2021). "Digital Object Identifier (DOI) Under the Context of Research Data Librarianship". Journal of eScience Librarianship. 10 (2): Article e1180. doi:10.7191/jeslib.2021.1180.
Paskin, Norman (2010), "Digital Object Identifier (DOI) System", Encyclopedia of Library and Information Sciences (3rd ed.), Taylor and Francis, pp. 1586–1592
"ANSI/NISO Z39.84-2005 Syntax for the Digital Object Identifier" (PDF). National Information Standards Organization. Retrieved 25 June 2021.
"Welcome to the DOI System". Doi.org. 28 June 2010. Archived from the original on 13 August 2010. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
^ a b "DOAI". CAPSH (Committee for the Accessibility of Publications in Sciences and Humanities). Retrieved 6 August 2016.
The IDF designed the DOI system to provide a form of persistent identification, in which each DOI name permanently and unambiguously identifies the object to which it is associated (although when the publisher of a journal changes, sometimes all the DOIs will be changed, with the old DOIs no longer working). It also associates metadata with objects, allowing it to provide users with relevant pieces of information about the objects and their relationships. Included as part of this metadata are network actions that allow DOI names to be resolved to web locations where the objects they describe can be found. To achieve its goals, the DOI system combines the Handle System and the indecs Content Model with a social infrastructure.
Another approach, which avoids typing or cutting-and-pasting into a resolver is to include the DOI in a document as a URL which uses the resolver as an HTTP proxy, such as https://doi.org/ (preferred)[30] or http://dx.doi.org/, both of which support HTTPS. For example, the DOI 10.1000/182 can be included in a reference or hyperlink as https://doi.org/10.1000/182. This approach allows users to click on the DOI as a normal hyperlink. Indeed, as previously mentioned, this is how CrossRef recommends that DOIs always be represented (preferring HTTPS over HTTP), so that if they are cut-and-pasted into other documents, emails, etc., they will be actionable.
"Digital Object Identifier (DOI) Under the Context of Research Data Librarianship"
^ a b Davidson, Lloyd A.; Douglas, Kimberly (December 1998). "Digital Object Identifiers: Promise and problems for scholarly publishing". Journal of Electronic Publishing. 4 (2). doi:10.3998/3336451.0004.203.
"Factsheet—Key Facts on Digital Object Identifier System". doi.org. International DOI Foundation. 6 June 2016. Retrieved 10 June 2016. Over 18,000 DOI name prefixes within the DOI System
"Frequently asked questions about the DOI system: 6. What can a DOI name be assigned to?"
^ Powell, Andy (June 1998). "Resolving DOI Based URNs Using Squid: An Experimental System at UKOLN". D-Lib Magazine. doi:10.1045/june98-powell. ISSN 1082-9873.
^ "about_the_doi.html DOI Standards and Specifications". Doi.org. 28 June 2010. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
The Handle System ensures that the DOI name for an object is not based on any changeable attributes of the object such as its physical location or ownership, that the attributes of the object are encoded in its metadata rather than in its DOI name, and that no two objects are assigned the same DOI name. Because DOI names are short character strings, they are human-readable, may be copied and pasted as text, and fit into the URI specification. The DOI name-resolution mechanism acts behind the scenes, so that users communicate with it in the same way as with any other web service; it is built on open architectures, incorporates trust mechanisms, and is engineered to operate reliably and flexibly so that it can be adapted to changing demands and new applications of the DOI system.[25] DOI name-resolution may be used with OpenURL to select the most appropriate among multiple locations for a given object, according to the location of the user making the request.[26] However, despite this ability, the DOI system has drawn criticism from librarians for directing users to non-free copies of documents, that would have been available for no additional fee from alternative locations.[27]
^ International DOI Foundation (7 August 2014). "Resolution". DOI Handbook. Retrieved 19 March 2015.
^ "New Crossref DOI display guidelines are on the way".
^ a b "ISO 26324:2012(en), Information and documentation – Digital object identifier system". ISO. Retrieved 20 April 2016.
^ Levine, John R. (2015). "Assigning Digital Object Identifiers to RFCs § DOIs for RFCs". IAB. doi:10.17487/rfc7669. RFC 7669.
The Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure project at Tsinghua University and the Institute of Scientific and Technical Information of China (ISTIC), two initiatives sponsored by the Chinese government.
Timmer, John (6 March 2010). "DOIs and their discontents". Ars Technica. Retrieved 5 March 2013.
Langston, Marc; Tyler, James (2004). "Linking to Journal Articles in an Online Teaching Environment: The Persistent Link, DOI, and OpenURL". The Internet and Higher Education. 7 (1): 51–58. doi:10.1016/j.iheduc.2003.11.004.
For example, in the DOI name 10.1000/182, the prefix is 10.1000 and the suffix is 182. The "10" part of the prefix distinguishes the handle as part of the DOI namespace, as opposed to some other Handle System namespace,[A] and the characters 1000 in the prefix identify the registrant; in this case the registrant is the International DOI Foundation itself. 182 is the suffix, or item ID, identifying a single object (in this case, the latest version of the DOI Handbook).
Open access to scientific and technical information: state of the art and future trends
"Chapter 7: The International DOI Foundation". DOI Handbook. Doi.org. Retrieved 8 July 2015.
"Digital object identifier (DOI) becomes an ISO standard". iso.org. 10 May 2012. Retrieved 10 May 2012.
"doi info & guidelines". CrossRef.org. Publishers International Linking Association, Inc. 2013. Archived from the original on 21 October 2002. Retrieved 10 June 2016. All DOI prefixes begin with "10" to distinguish the DOI from other implementations of the Handle System followed by a four-digit number or string (the prefix can be longer if necessary).
DOI names can identify creative works (such as texts, images, audio or video items, and software) in both electronic and physical forms, performances, and abstract works[15] such as licenses, parties to a transaction, etc.
"The Handle System". Handle.Net Registry. Archived from the original on 7 January 2023.
The developer and administrator of the DOI system is the International DOI Foundation (IDF), which introduced it in 2000.[8] Organizations that meet the contractual obligations of the DOI system and are willing to pay to become a member of the system can assign DOIs.[9] The DOI system is implemented through a federation of registration agencies coordinated by the IDF.[10] By late April 2011 more than 50 million DOI names had been assigned by some 4,000 organizations,[11] and by April 2013 this number had grown to 85 million DOI names assigned through 9,500 organizations.
The DOI system is an international standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization in its technical committee on identification and description, TC46/SC9.[37] The Draft International Standard ISO/DIS 26324, Information and documentation – Digital Object Identifier System met the ISO requirements for approval. The relevant ISO Working Group later submitted an edited version to ISO for distribution as an FDIS (Final Draft International Standard) ballot,[38] which was approved by 100% of those voting in a ballot closing on 15 November 2010.[39] The final standard was published on 23 April 2012.[1]
Davidson, Lloyd A.; Douglas, Kimberly (December 1998). "Digital Object Identifiers: Promise and problems for scholarly publishing". Journal of Electronic Publishing. 4 (2). doi:10.3998/3336451.0004.203.
^ Paskin, Norman (2010), "Digital Object Identifier (DOI) System", Encyclopedia of Library and Information Sciences (3rd ed.), Taylor and Francis, pp. 1586–1592
^ "doi info & guidelines". CrossRef.org. Publishers International Linking Association, Inc. 2013. Archived from the original on 21 October 2002. Retrieved 10 June 2016. All DOI prefixes begin with "10" to distinguish the DOI from other implementations of the Handle System followed by a four-digit number or string (the prefix can be longer if necessary).
"DOI System and Internet Identifier Specifications". Doi.org. 18 May 2010. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
The DOI for a document remains fixed over the lifetime of the document, whereas its location and other metadata may change. Referring to an online document by its DOI should provide a more stable link than directly using its URL. But if its URL changes, the publisher must update the metadata for the DOI to maintain the link to the URL.[4][5][6] It is the publisher's responsibility to update the DOI database. If they fail to do so, the DOI resolves to a dead link, leaving the DOI useless.[7]
The prefix identifies the registrant of the identifier and the suffix is chosen by the registrant and identifies the specific object associated with that DOI. Most legal Unicode characters are allowed in these strings, which are interpreted in a case-insensitive manner. The prefix usually takes the form 10.NNNN, where NNNN is at least a four digit number greater than or equal to 1000, whose limit depends only on the total number of registrants.[12][13] The prefix may be further subdivided with periods, like 10.NNNN.N.[14]
^ "About "info" URIs – Frequently Asked Questions". Info-uri.info. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
^ "DOI Handbook—2 Numbering". doi.org. International DOI Foundation. 1 February 2016. Retrieved 10 June 2016. The registrant code may be further divided into sub-elements for administrative convenience if desired. Each sub-element of the registrant code shall be preceded by a full stop.
^ "DOI Handbook – Numbering". doi.org. 13 February 2014. Section 2.6.1 Screen and print presentation. Archived from the original on 30 June 2014. Retrieved 30 June 2014.
The indecs Content Model as used within the DOI system associates metadata with objects. A small kernel of common metadata is shared by all DOI names and can be optionally extended with other relevant data, which may be public or restricted. Registrants may update the metadata for their DOI names at any time, such as when publication information changes or when an object moves to a different URL.
DOI is a registered URI under the info URI scheme specified by IETF .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}RFC 4452. info:doi/ is the infoURI Namespace of Digital Object Identifiers.[40]
"About "info" URIs – Frequently Asked Questions". Info-uri.info. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
The maintainers of the DOI system have deliberately not registered a DOI namespace for URNs, stating that:
^ "Factsheets". DOI. Archived from the original on 25 December 2022.
"Frequently asked questions about the DOI system: 6. What can a DOI name be assigned to?". International DOI Foundation. 3 July 2018 [update of earlier version]. Retrieved 19 July 2018. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Levine, John R. (2015). "Assigning Digital Object Identifiers to RFCs § DOIs for RFCs". IAB. doi:10.17487/rfc7669. RFC 7669.
