Find sources: "The Unchanging" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
"The Unchanging (Atom Smith Remix) – Donna De Lory – Free Internet Radio – Slacker Radio"
{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Donna De Lory – Be the Change (DJ Drez Remix) – Single"
^ "The Unchanging (Atom Smith Remix) – Donna De Lory – Free Internet Radio – Slacker Radio". Slacker Radio. July 18, 2014. Retrieved September 9, 2019.
Kara, Joe (July 24, 2013). "Donna De Lory: The Unchanging". LA Yoga. Retrieved February 10, 2020.
^ "Donna De Lory – My Sweet Lord – Single". iTunes Store (US). April 3, 2013. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Donna De Lory – The Unchanging". iTunes Store (US). July 24, 2013. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
^ The Unchanging (Liner notes). Donna De Lory. De Lory Music. 2013. DM0002.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.Find sources: "The Unchanging" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Please improve this article by adding secondary or tertiary sources. Find sources: "The Unchanging" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
"Donna De Lory – My Sweet Lord – Single". iTunes Store (US). April 3, 2013. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"The Unchanging (Atom Smith Remix) – Donna De Lory – Free Internet Radio – Slacker Radio". Slacker Radio. July 18, 2014. Retrieved September 9, 2019.
^ Kara, Joe (July 24, 2013). "Donna De Lory: The Unchanging". LA Yoga. Retrieved February 10, 2020.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Donna De Lory – The Unchanging". iTunes Store (US). July 24, 2013. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
This page was last edited on 24 January 2021, at 19:11 (UTC).
De Lory's cover of George Harrison's "My Sweet Lord" was released as the album's lead single on April 3, 2013.[3] The Atom Smith remix of the album's title track became the second single from the album, when it was sent out for radio airplay on July 18, 2014.[4] The final single from The Unchanging is "Be the Change", which was released as a digital single on July 18, 2015.[5]
The Unchanging (Liner notes). Donna De Lory. De Lory Music. 2013. DM0002.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Donna De Lory – Be the Change (DJ Drez Remix) – Single". iTunes Store (US). July 18, 2015. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – Be the Change (DJ Drez Remix) – Single". iTunes Store (US). July 18, 2015. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
The Unchanging is the eighth studio album by American singer and songwriter Donna de Lory, independently released on July 24, 2013.[1] De Lory dedicated the album to her late father, Al De Lory: "I'm honoring him with this album. It’s about how my father’s death affected my whole spiritual path.”[2] The Unchanging includes a version of De Lory's 1992 single "Praying for Love", which was featured on her eponymous debut album.
Moyers interviewed Collins, Cash, opera singer Jessye Norman, Appalachian folk musician Jean Ritchie and her family, white Sacred Harp singers in Georgia, black Sacred Harp singers in Alabama, and a prison choir at the Texas State Penitentiary at Huntsville. Collins, Cash, and Norman were unable to discern if the power of the song came from the music or the lyrics. Norman, who once notably sang it at the end of a large outdoor rock concert for Nelson Mandela's 70th birthday, stated, "I don't know whether it's the text –I don't know whether we're talking about the lyrics when we say that it touches so many people –or whether it's that tune that everybody knows." A prisoner interviewed by Moyers explained his literal interpretation of the second verse: "'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved" by saying that the fear became immediately real to him when he realised he may never get his life in order, compounded by the loneliness and restriction in prison. Gospel singer Marion Williams summed up its effect: "That's a song that gets to everybody".[3]
Amazing grace! (how sweet the sound)   That sav'd a wretch like me!I once was lost, but now am found,   Was blind, but now I see.'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear,   And grace my fears reliev'd;How precious did that grace appear   The hour I first believ'd!Thro' many dangers, toils, and snares,   I have already come;'Tis grace hath brought me safe thus far,   And grace will lead me home.The Lord has promis'd good to me,   His word my hope secures;He will my shield and portion be   As long as life endures.Yes, when this flesh and heart shall fail,   And mortal life shall cease;I shall possess, within the veil,   A life of joy and peace.The earth shall soon dissolve like snow,   The sun forbear to shine;But God, who call'd me here below,   Will be forever mine.
Franklin's version is a prime example of "long meter" rendition: she sings several notes representing a syllable and the vocals are more dramatic and lilting. Her version lasts over ten minutes in comparison to the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards' that lasts under three minutes. (Tallmadge)(Turner, pp. 150–151.)
^ Franklin's version is a prime example of "long meter" rendition: she sings several notes representing a syllable and the vocals are more dramatic and lilting. Her version lasts over ten minutes in comparison to the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards' that lasts under three minutes. (Tallmadge)(Turner, pp. 150–151.)
Although it had its roots in England, "Amazing Grace" became an integral part of the Christian tapestry in the United States. The greatest influences in the 19th century that propelled "Amazing Grace" to spread across the US and become a staple of religious services in many denominations and regions were the Second Great Awakening and the development of shape note singing communities. A tremendous religious movement swept the US in the early 19th century, marked by the growth and popularity of churches and religious revivals that got their start on the frontier in Kentucky and Tennessee. Unprecedented gatherings of thousands of people attended camp meetings where they came to experience salvation; preaching was fiery and focused on saving the sinner from temptation and backsliding.[42] Religion was stripped of ornament and ceremony, and made as plain and simple as possible; sermons and songs often used repetition to get across to a rural population of poor and mostly uneducated people the necessity of turning away from sin. Witnessing and testifying became an integral component to these meetings, where a congregation member or stranger would rise and recount his turn from a sinful life to one of piety and peace.[40] "Amazing Grace" was one of many hymns that punctuated fervent sermons, although the contemporary style used a refrain, borrowed from other hymns, that employed simplicity and repetition such as:
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Rachel Wells Hall (12 May 2015). "Did Lucius Chapin write the Amazing Grace tune?".
More than 60 of Newton and Cowper's hymns were republished in other British hymnals and magazines, but "Amazing Grace" was not, appearing only once in a 1780 hymnal sponsored by the Countess of Huntingdon. Scholar John Julian commented in his 1892 A Dictionary of Hymnology that outside of the United States, the song was unknown and it was "far from being a good example of Newton's finest work".[39][h] Between 1789 and 1799, four variations of Newton's hymn were published in the US in Baptist, Dutch Reformed, and Congregationalist hymnodies;[34] by 1830 Presbyterians and Methodists also included Newton's verses in their hymnals.[40][41]
Patterson, Beverly Bush (1995). The Sound of the Dove: Singing in Appalachian Primitive Baptist Churches, University of Illinois Press. ISBN 0-252-02123-1
Bradley, Ian (ed.)(1989). The Book of Hymns, The Overlook Press. ISBN 0-87951-346-2
Two musical arrangers named Dwight Moody and Ira Sankey heralded another religious revival in the cities of the US and Europe, giving the song international exposure. Moody's preaching and Sankey's musical gifts were significant; their arrangements were the forerunners of gospel music, and churches all over the US were eager to acquire them.[59] Moody and Sankey began publishing their compositions in 1875, and "Amazing Grace" appeared three times with three different melodies, but they were the first to give it its title; hymns were typically published using the incipits (first line of the lyrics), or the name of the tune such as "New Britain". Publisher Edwin Othello Excell gave the version of "Amazing Grace" set to "New Britain" immense popularity by publishing it in a series of hymnals that were used in urban churches. Excell altered some of Walker's music, making it more contemporary and European, giving "New Britain" some distance from its rural folk-music origins. Excell's version was more palatable for a growing urban middle class and arranged for larger church choirs. Several editions featuring Newton's first three stanzas and the verse previously included by Harriet Beecher Stowe in Uncle Tom's Cabin were published by Excell between 1900 and 1910. Hisversion of "Amazing Grace" became the standard form of the song in American churches.[60][61]
Whitburn, Joel (2003). Joel Whitburn's Top Pop Singles, 1955–2002, Record Research, Inc. ISBN 0-89820-155-1
The New Testament served as the basis for many of the lyrics of "Amazing Grace". The first verse, for example, can be traced to the story of the Prodigal Son. In the Gospel of Luke the father says, "For this son of mine was dead and is alive again; he was lost, and is found". The story of Jesus healing a blind man who tells the Pharisees that he can now see is told in the Gospel of John. Newton used the words "I was blind but now I see" and declared "Oh to grace how great a debtor!" in his letters and diary entries as early as 1752.[37] The effect of the lyrical arrangement, according to Bruce Hindmarsh, allows an instant release of energy in the exclamation "Amazing grace!", to be followed by a qualifying reply in "how sweet the sound". In An Annotated Anthology of Hymns, Newton's use of an exclamation at the beginning of his verse is called "crude but effective" in an overall composition that "suggest(s) a forceful, if simple, statement of faith".[36] Grace is recalled three times in the following verse, culminating in Newton's most personal story of his conversion, underscoring the use of his personal testimony with his parishioners.[27]
Mahalia Jackson's 1947 version received significant radio airplay, and as her popularity grew throughout the 1950s and 1960s, she often sang it at public events such as concerts at Carnegie Hall.[68] Author James Basker states that the song has been employed by African Americans as the "paradigmatic Negro spiritual" because it expresses the joy felt at being delivered from slavery and worldly miseries.[31] Anthony Heilbut, author of The Gospel Sound, states that the "dangers, toils, and snares" of Newton's words are a "universal testimony" of the African American experience.[69] During the civil rights movement and opposition to the Vietnam War, the song took on a political tone. Mahalia Jackson employed "Amazing Grace" for Civil Rights marchers, writing that she used it "to give magical protection –a charm to ward off danger, an incantation to the angels of heaven to descend ... I was not sure the magic worked outside the church walls ... in the open air of Mississippi. But I wasn't taking any chances."[70] Folk singer Judy Collins, who knew the song before she could remember learning it, witnessed Fannie Lou Hamer leading marchers in Mississippi in 1964, singing "Amazing Grace". Collins also considered it a talisman of sorts, and saw its equal emotional impact on the marchers, witnesses, and law enforcement who opposed the civil rights demonstrators.[3] According to fellow folk singer Joan Baez, it was one of the most requested songs from her audiences, but she never realised its origin as a hymn; by the time she was singing it in the 1960s she said it had "developed a life of its own".[71] It even made an appearance at the Woodstock Music Festival in 1969 during Arlo Guthrie's performance.[72]
^ Phipps, William (Summer 1990). " 'Amazing Grace' in the hymnwriter's life", Anglican Theological Review, 72 (3), pp. 306–313.
William Phipps in the Anglican Theological Review and author James Basker have interpreted the first stanza of "Amazing Grace" as evidence of Newton's realisation that his participation in the slave trade was his wretchedness, perhaps representing a wider common understanding of Newton's motivations.[30][31] Newton joined forces with a young man named William Wilberforce, the British Member of Parliament who led the Parliamentarian campaign to abolish the slave trade in the British Empire, culminating in the Slave Trade Act 1807. But Newton did not become an ardent and outspoken abolitionist untilafter he left Olney in the 1780s; he is not known to have connected writing the hymn known as "Amazing Grace" to anti-slavery sentiments.[32]
When we've been there ten thousand years,Bright shining as the sun,We've no less days to sing God's praise,Than when we first begun.[52][53]
^ "President Obama: Emanuel AME 'a phoenix rising from the ashes'". MSNBC. 17 September 2014. Retrieved 28 June 2015.
^ Top Singles –Volume 17, No. 17 RPM Magazine. 10 June 1972. Retrieved 12 April 2020.
Aretha Franklin and Rod Stewart also recorded "Amazing Grace" around the same time, and both of their renditions were popular.[i] All four versions were marketed to distinct types of audiences, thereby assuring its place as a pop song.[84] Johnny Cash recorded it on his 1975 album Sings Precious Memories, dedicating it to his older brother Jack, who had been killed in a mill accident when they were boys in Dyess, Arkansas. Cash and his family sang it to themselves while they worked in the cotton fields following Jack's death. Cash often included the song when he toured prisons, saying "For the three minutes that song is going on, everybody is free. It just frees the spirit and frees the person."[3]
Simultaneously, an unrelated movement of communal singing was established throughout the South and Western states. A format of teaching music to illiterate people appeared in 1800. It used four sounds to symbolise the basic scale: fa-sol-la-fa-sol-la-mi-fa. Each sound was accompanied by a specifically shaped note and thus became known as shape note singing. The method was simple to learn and teach, so schools were established throughout the South and West. Communities would come together for an entire day of singing in a large building where they sat in four distinct areas surrounding an open space, one member directing the group as a whole. Other groups would sing outside, on benches set up in a square. Preachers used shape note hymns to teach people on the frontier and to raise the emotion of camp meetings. Most of the music was Christian, but the purpose of communal singing was not primarily spiritual. Communities either could not afford music accompaniment or rejected it out of a Calvinistic sense of simplicity, so the songs were sung a cappella.[43]
Noll, Mark A.; Blumhofer, Edith L. (eds.) (2006). Sing Them Over Again to Me: Hymns and Hymnbooks in America, University of Alabama Press. ISBN 0-8173-1505-5
Watts had previously written a hymn named "Alas! And Did My Saviour Bleed" that contained the lines "Amazing pity! Grace unknown!/ And love beyond degree!". Philip Doddridge, another well-known hymn writer, wrote another in 1755 titled "The Humiliation and Exaltation of God's Israel" that began "Amazing grace of God on high!" and included other similar wording to Newton's verses. Newton biographer Jonathan Aitken states that Watts had inspired most of Newton's compositions. (Turner, pp. 82–83.)(Aitken, pp. 28–29.)
^ Newton kept a series of detailed journals as a slave trader; these are perhaps the first primary source of the Atlantic slave trade from the perspective of a merchant (Moyers). Women, naked or nearly so, upon their arrival on ship were claimed by the sailors, and Newton alluded to sexual misbehavior in his writings that has since been interpreted by historians to mean that he, along with other sailors, took (and presumably raped) whomever he chose. (Martin [1950], pp. 82–85)(Aitken, p. 64.)
"Amazing Grace", with the words written by Newton and joined with "New Britain", the melody most currently associated with it, appeared for the first time in Walker's shape note tunebook Southern Harmony in 1847.[48] It was, according to author Steve Turner, a "marriage made in heaven ... The music behind 'amazing' had a sense of awe to it. The music behind 'grace' sounded graceful. There was a rise at the point of confession, as though the author was stepping out into the open and making a bold declaration, but a corresponding fall when admitting his blindness."[49] Walker's collection was enormously popular, selling about 600,000 copies all over the US when the total population was just over 20 million. Another shape note tunebook named The Sacred Harp (1844) by Georgia residents Benjamin Franklin White and Elisha J. King became widely influential and continues to be used.[50]
Although "Amazing Grace" set to "New Britain" was popular, other versions existed regionally. Primitive Baptists in the Appalachian region often used "New Britain" with other hymns, and sometimes sing the words of "Amazing Grace" to other folk songs, including titles such as "In the Pines", "Pisgah", "Primrose", and "Evan", as all are able to be sung in common meter, of which the majority of their repertoire consists.[57][58] In the late 19th century, Newton's verses were sung to a tune named "Arlington" as frequently as to "New Britain" for a time.
^ "PIPES AND DRUMS AND THE MILITARY BAND OF THE ROYAL SCOTS DRAGOON GUARD". The Official UK Charts Company. Retrieved 17 December 2021.
Sample of the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards' version of "Amazing Grace"
"Amazing Grace How Sweet the Sound", Dictionary of American Hymnology. Retrieved 31 October 2009.
Porter, Jennifer; McLaren, Darcee (eds.)(1999). Star Trek and Sacred Ground: Explorations of Star Trek, Religion, and American Culture, State University of New York Press, ISBN 0-585-29190-X
Brown, Tony; Kutner, Jon; Warwick, Neil (2000). Complete Book of the British Charts: Singles & Albums, Omnibus. ISBN 0-7119-7670-8
How industrious is Satan served. I was formerly one of his active undertemptors and had my influence been equal to my wishes I would have carried all the human race with me. A common drunkard or profligate is a petty sinner to what I was.
With the advent of recorded music and radio, "Amazing Grace" began to cross over from primarily a gospel standard to secular audiences. The ability to record combined with the marketing of records to specific audiences allowed "Amazing Grace" to take on thousands of different forms in the 20th century. Where Edwin Othello Excell sought to make the singing of "Amazing Grace" uniform throughout thousands of churches, records allowed artists to improvise with the words and music specific to each audience. AllMusic lists over 1,000 recordings – including re-releases and compilations – as of 2019.[62] Its first recording is an a cappella version from 1922 by the Sacred Harp Choir. [63]It was included from 1926 to 1930 in Okeh Records' catalogue, which typically concentrated strongly on blues and jazz. Demand was high for black gospel recordings of the song by H. R. Tomlin and J. M. Gates. A poignant sense of nostalgia accompanied the recordings of several gospel and blues singers in the 1940s and 1950s who used the song to remember their grandparents, traditions, and family roots.[64] It was recorded with musical accompaniment for the first time in 1930 by Fiddlin' John Carson, although to another folk hymn named "At the Cross", not to "New Britain".[65] "Amazing Grace" is emblematic of several kinds of folk music styles, often used as the standard example to illustrate such musical techniques as lining out and call and response, that have been practised in both black and white folk music.[66]
Another verse was first recorded in Harriet Beecher Stowe's immensely influential 1852 anti-slavery novel Uncle Tom's Cabin. Three verses were emblematically sung by Tom in his hour of deepest crisis.[51] He sings the sixth and fifth verses in that order, and Stowe included another verse, not written by Newton, that had been passed down orally in African-American communities for at least 50 years. It was one of between 50 and 70 verses of a song titled "Jerusalem, My Happy Home", which was first published in a 1790 book called A Collection of Sacred Ballads:
3Modern interpretations											Toggle Modern interpretations subsection																					3.1Rendering electronic arrangements of the song
^ Saunders, William (2003). Lenten Music Arlington Catholic Herald. Retrieved 7 February 2010.
Newton's biographers and Newton himself does not put a name to this episode other than a "fit" in which he became unresponsive, suffering dizziness and a headache. His doctor advised him not to go to sea again, and Newton complied. Jonathan Aitken called it a stroke or seizure, but its cause is unknown. (Martin [1950], pp. 140–141.)(Aitken, p. 125.)
The transformative power of the song was investigated by journalist Bill Moyers in a documentary released in 1990. Moyers was inspired to focus on the song's power after watching a performance at Lincoln Center, where the audience consisted of Christians and non-Christians, and he noticed that it had an equal impact on everybody in attendance, unifying them.[22] James Basker also acknowledged this force when he explained why he chose "Amazing Grace" to represent a collection of anti-slavery poetry: "there is a transformative power that is applicable ... : the transformation of sin and sorrow into grace, of suffering into beauty, of alienation into empathy and connection, of the unspeakable into imaginative literature."[97]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Rachel Wells Hall (12 May 2015). "Did Lucius Chapin write the Amazing Grace tune?".
Somehow, "Amazing Grace" [embraced] core American values without ever sounding triumphant or jingoistic. It was a song that could be sung by young and old, Republican and Democrat, Southern Baptist and Roman Catholic, African American and Native American, high-ranking military officer and anticapitalist campaigner.
The Dictionary of American Hymnology claims it is included in more than a thousand published hymnals, and recommends its use for "occasions of worship when we need to confess with joy that we are saved by God's grace alone; as a hymn of response to forgiveness of sin or as an assurance of pardon; as a confession of faith or after the sermon".[4]
And David the king came and sat before the LORD, and said, Who am I, O LORD God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought me hitherto? And yet this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God; for thou hast also spoken of thy servant's house for a great while to come, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, O LORD God.
Newton kept a series of detailed journals as a slave trader; these are perhaps the first primary source of the Atlantic slave trade from the perspective of a merchant (Moyers). Women, naked or nearly so, upon their arrival on ship were claimed by the sailors, and Newton alluded to sexual misbehavior in his writings that has since been interpreted by historians to mean that he, along with other sailors, took (and presumably raped) whomever he chose. (Martin [1950], pp. 82–85)(Aitken, p. 64.)
Young, Wesley (1 August 2013), "A tale of grace: Local filmmaker bringing story of John Newton to life". Winston-Salem Journal
Several retellings of Newton's life story claim that he was carrying slaves during the voyage in which he experienced his conversion, but the ship was carrying livestock, wood, and beeswax from the coast of Africa. (Aitken, p. 76.)
He deserted the navy to visit Mary "Polly" Catlett, a family friend with whom he had fallen in love.[8] After enduring humiliation for deserting,[a] he was traded as crew to a slave ship.
1History											Toggle History subsection																					1.1John Newton's conversion																											1.2Olney curate																								1.2.1Olney Hymns																											1.2.2Critical analysis																														1.3Dissemination																								1.3.1"New Britain" tune																											1.3.2Urban revival																														1.4Recorded versions
Phipps, William (Summer 1990). " 'Amazing Grace' in the hymnwriter's life", Anglican Theological Review, 72 (3), pp. 306–313.
"Amazing Grace" is an icon in American culture that has been used for a variety of secular purposes and marketing campaigns.It is referenced in the 2006 film Amazing Grace, which highlights Newton's influence on the leading British abolitionist William Wilberforce,[86]in the film biography of Newton, Newton's Grace.[87] and the 2014 film Freedom which tells the story of Newton's composition of the hymn.
Saunders, William (2003). Lenten Music Arlington Catholic Herald. Retrieved 7 February 2010.
^ Tallmadge, William (May 1961). "Dr. Watts and Mahalia Jackson: The Development, Decline, and Survival of a Folk Style in America", Ethnomusicology, 5 (2), pp. 95–99.
Tallmadge, William (May 1961). "Dr. Watts and Mahalia Jackson: The Development, Decline, and Survival of a Folk Style in America", Ethnomusicology, 5 (2), pp. 95–99.
^ The Irish Charts – All there is to know
Newton's conversion was not immediate, but he contacted Polly's family and announced his intention to marry her. Her parents were hesitant as he was known to be unreliable and impetuous. They knew he was profane too butallowed him to write to Polly, and he set to begin to submit to authority for her sake.[16] He sought a place on a slave ship bound for Africa, and Newton and his crewmates participated in most of the same activities he had written about before; the only immorality from which he was able to free himself was profanity. After a severe illness his resolve was renewed, yet he retained the same attitude towards slavery as was held by his contemporaries.[e] Newton continued in the slave trade through several voyages where he sailed the coasts of Africa, now as a captain, and procured slaves being offered for sale in larger ports, transporting them to North America.
Turner, Steve (2002). Amazing Grace: The Story of America's Most Beloved Song, HarperCollins. ISBN 0-06-000219-0
Martin, Bernard and Spurrell, Mark, (eds.)(1962). The Journal of a Slave Trader (John Newton), The Epworth Press, London.
The lyrics in Olney Hymns were arranged by their association to the Biblical verses that would be used by Newton and Cowper in their prayer meetings, and did not address any political objective. For Newton, the beginning of the year was a time to reflect on one's spiritual progress. At the same time he completed a diary –which has since been lost –that he had begun 17 years before, two years after he quit sailing. The last entry of 1772 was a recounting of how much he had changed since then.[33]
Shape note version of "Amazing Grace" recorded by Alan and John Lomax in Birmingham, Alabama, 1942
"PIPES AND DRUMS AND THE MILITARY BAND OF THE ROYAL SCOTS DRAGOON GUARD"
"A tale of grace: Local filmmaker bringing story of John Newton to life"
"Amazing Grace" came to be an emblem of a Christian movement and a symbol of the US itself as the country was involved in a great political experiment, attempting to employ democracy as a means of government. Shape-note singing communities, with all the members sitting around an open center, each song employing a different song leader, illustrated this in practice. Simultaneously, the US began to expand westward into previously unexplored territory that was often wilderness. The "dangers, toils, and snares" of Newton's lyrics had both literal and figurative meanings for Americans.[50] This became poignantly true during the most serious test of American cohesion in the U.S. Civil War (1861–1865). "Amazing Grace", set to "New Britain", was included in two hymnals distributed to soldiers. With death so real and imminent, religious services in the military became commonplace.[54] The hymn was translated into other languages as well: while on the Trail of Tears, the Cherokee sang Christian hymns as a way of coping with the ongoing tragedy, and a version of the song by Samuel Worcester that had been translated into the Cherokee language became very popular.[55][56]
Martin, Bernard (1950). John Newton: A Biography, William Heineman, Ltd., London.
Olney was a village of about 2,500 residents whose main industry was making lace by hand. The people were mostly illiterate and many of them were poor.[2] Newton's preaching was unique in that he shared many of his own experiences from the pulpit; many clergy preached from a distance, not admitting any intimacy with temptation or sin. He was involved in his parishioners' lives and was much loved, although his writing and delivery were sometimes unpolished.[21] But his devotion and conviction were apparent and forceful, and he often said his mission was to "break a hard heart and to heal a broken heart".[22] He struck a friendship with William Cowper, a gifted writer who had failed at a career in law and suffered bouts of insanity, attempting suicide several times. Cowper enjoyed Olney –and Newton's company; he was also new to Olney and had gone through a spiritual conversion similar to Newton's. Together, their effect on the local congregation was impressive. In 1768, they found it necessary to start a weekly prayer meeting to meet the needs of an increasing number of parishioners. They also began writing lessons for children.[23]
^ Only since the 1950s has it gained some popularity in the UK; not until 1964 was it published with the music most commonly associated with it. (Noll and Blumhofer, p. 8)
"Amazing Grace" is a Christian hymn published in 1779 with words written in 1772 by English Anglican clergyman and poet John Newton (1725–1807). It is an immensely popular hymn, particularly in the United States, where it is used for both religious and secular purposes.
In 1972, the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards, the senior Scottish regiment of the British Army, recorded an instrumental version featuring a bagpipe soloist accompanied by a pipe band. The tempo of their arrangement was slowed to allow for the bagpipes, but it was based on Collins's: it began with a bagpipe solo introduction similar to her lone voice, then it was accompanied by the band of bagpipes and horns, whereas in her version she is backed up by a chorus. It became an international hit, spending five weeks at number-one in the UK Singles Chart,[79] topping the RPM national singles chart in Canada for three weeks,[80] and also peaking at number 11 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the US.[81][82] It is also a controversial instrumental, as it combined pipes with a military band. The Pipe Major of the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards was summoned to Edinburgh Castle and chastised for demeaning the bagpipes.[83]
Newton's father was friends with Joseph Manesty, who intervened several times in Newton's life. Newton was supposed to go to Jamaica on Manesty's ship, but missed it while he was with the Catletts. When Newton's father got his son's letter detailing his conditions in Sierra Leone, he asked Manesty to find Newton. Manesty sent the Greyhound, which travelled along the African coast trading at various stops. An associate of Newton lit a fire, signalling to ships he was interested in trading just 30 minutes before the Greyhound appeared. (Aitken, pp. 34–35, 64–65.)
^ Chizum, Lee (27 November 2012). "'Amazing Grace' first/earliest/oldest/original recording - 1922 by 'Original Sacred Harp Choir' Show". Unknown. Archived from the original on 27 November 2012. Retrieved 27 November 2012.
Amazing grace! How sweet the soundThat saved a wretch like me.I once was lost, but now am found,Was blind but now I see.Shout, shout for glory,Shout, shout aloud for glory;Brother, sister, mourner,All shout glory hallelujah.[42]
^ Several retellings of Newton's life story claim that he was carrying slaves during the voyage in which he experienced his conversion, but the ship was carrying livestock, wood, and beeswax from the coast of Africa. (Aitken, p. 76.)
Norris, Kathleen (1999). Amazing Grace: A Vocabulary of Faith, Riverhead. ISBN 1-57322-078-7
Sutton, Brett (January 1982). "Shape-Note Tune Books and Primitive Hymns", Ethnomusicology, 26 (1), pp. 11–26.
Amazing Grace: Some Early Tunes Anthology of the American Hymn-Tune Repertory
^ Newton's father was friends with Joseph Manesty, who intervened several times in Newton's life. Newton was supposed to go to Jamaica on Manesty's ship, but missed it while he was with the Catletts. When Newton's father got his son's letter detailing his conditions in Sierra Leone, he asked Manesty to find Newton. Manesty sent the Greyhound, which travelled along the African coast trading at various stops. An associate of Newton lit a fire, signalling to ships he was interested in trading just 30 minutes before the Greyhound appeared. (Aitken, pp. 34–35, 64–65.)
^ a b Pollock, John (2009). "Amazing Grace: The great Sea Change in the Life of John Newton", The Trinity Forum Reading, The Trinity Forum.
About two weeks later, the battered ship and starving crew landed in Lough Swilly, Ireland. For several weeks before the storm, Newton had been reading The Christian's Pattern, a summary of the 15th-century The Imitation of Christ by Thomas à Kempis. The memory of his own "Lord have mercy upon us!" uttered during a moment of desperation in the storm did not leave him; he began to ask if he was worthy of God's mercy or in any way redeemable. Not only had he neglected his faith but directly opposed it, mocking others who showed theirs, deriding and denouncing God as a myth. He came to believe that God had sent him a profound message and had begun to work through him.[15]
^ a b Amazing Grace: Special Presentation: Amazing Grace Timeline United States Library of Congress Performing Arts Encyclopedia. Retrieved 1 November 2008.
In recent years, the words of the hymn have been changed in some religious publications to downplay a sense of imposed self-loathing by its singers. The second line, "That saved a wretch like me!" has been rewritten as "That saved and strengthened me", "save a soul like me", or "that saved and set me free".[91] Kathleen Norris in her book Amazing Grace: A Vocabulary of Faith characterises this transformation of the original words as "wretched English" making the line that replaces the original "laughably bland".[92] Part of the reason for this change has been the altered interpretations of what wretchedness and grace means. Newton's Calvinistic view of redemption and divine grace formed his perspective that he considered himself a sinner so vile that he was unable to change his life or be redeemed without God's help. Yet his lyrical subtlety, in Steve Turner's opinion, leaves the hymn's meaning open to a variety of Christian and non-Christian interpretations.[93] "Wretch" also represents a period in Newton's life when he saw himself outcast and miserable, as he was when he was enslaved in Sierra Leone; his own arrogance was matched by how far he had fallen in his life.[94]
Newton and Cowper attempted to present a poem or hymn for each prayer meeting. The lyrics to "Amazing Grace" were written in late 1772 and probably used in a prayer meeting for the first time on 1 January 1773.[25] A collection of the poems Newton and Cowper had written for use in services at Olney was bound and published anonymously in 1779 under the title Olney Hymns. Newton contributed 280 of the 348 texts in Olney Hymns; "1 Chronicles 17:16–17, Faith's Review and Expectation" was the title of the poem with the first line "Amazing grace! (how sweet the sound)".[4]
"PIPES AND DRUMS AND THE MILITARY BAND OF THE ROYAL SCOTS DRAGOON GUARD". The Official UK Charts Company. Retrieved 17 December 2021.
Moyers, Bill (director). Amazing Grace with Bill Moyers, Public Affairs Television, Inc. (1990).
Top Singles –Volume 17, No. 17 RPM Magazine. 10 June 1972. Retrieved 12 April 2020.
"'Amazing Grace' first/earliest/oldest/original recording - 1922 by 'Original Sacred Harp Choir' Show"
Collins, Judy (1998). Singing Lessons: A Memoir of Love, Loss, Hope, and Healing , Pocket Books. ISBN 0-671-02745-X
With the message that forgiveness and redemption are possible regardless of sins committed and that the soul can be delivered from despair through the mercy of God, "Amazing Grace" is one of the most recognisable songs in the English-speaking world. American historian Gilbert Chase writes that it is "without a doubt the most famous of all the folk hymns"[1] and Jonathan Aitken, a Newton biographer, estimates that the song is performed about 10 million times annually.[2]
Since 1954, when an organ instrumental of "New Britain" became a best-seller, "Amazing Grace" has been associated with funerals and memorial services.[88] The hymn has become a song that inspires hope in the wake of tragedy, becoming a sort of "spiritual national anthem" according to authors Mary Rourke and Emily Gwathmey.[89] For example, President Barack Obama recited and later sang the hymn at the memorial service for Clementa Pinckney, who was one of the nine victims of the Charleston church shooting in 2015.[90]
Aitken, Jonathan (2007). John Newton: From Disgrace to Amazing Grace, Crossway Books. ISBN 1-58134-848-7
Chase, Gilbert (1987). America's Music, From the Pilgrims to the Present, McGraw-Hill. ISBN 0-252-00454-X
^ a b c d e Moyers, Bill (director). Amazing Grace with Bill Moyers, Public Affairs Television, Inc. (1990).
Chizum, Lee (27 November 2012). "'Amazing Grace' first/earliest/oldest/original recording - 1922 by 'Original Sacred Harp Choir' Show". Unknown. Archived from the original on 27 November 2012. Retrieved 27 November 2012.
Swiderski, Richard (1996). The Metamorphosis of English: Versions of Other Languages, Greenwood Publishing Group. ISBN 0-89789-468-5
When originally used in Olney, it is unknown what music, if any, accompanied the verses written by John Newton. Contemporary hymnbooks did not contain music and were simply small books of religious poetry. The first known instance of Newton's lines joined to music was in A Companion to the Countess of Huntingdon's Hymns (London, 1808), where it is set to the tune "Hephzibah" by English composer John Jenkins Husband.[44] Common meter hymns were interchangeable with a variety of tunes; more than twenty musical settings of "Amazing Grace" circulated with varying popularity until 1835, when American composer William Walker assigned Newton's words to a traditional song named "New Britain". This was an amalgamation of two melodies ("Gallaher" and "St. Mary"), first published in the Columbian Harmony by Charles H. Spilman and Benjamin Shaw (Cincinnati, 1829). Spilman and Shaw, both students at Kentucky's Centre College, compiled their tunebook both for public worship and revivals, to satisfy "the wants of the Church in her triumphal march". Most of the tunes had been previously published, but "Gallaher" and "St. Mary" had not.[45] As neither tune is attributed and both show elements of oral transmission, scholars can only speculate that they are possibly of British origin.[46] A manuscript from 1828 by Lucius Chapin, a famous hymn writer of that time, contains a tune very close to "St. Mary", but that does not mean that he wrote it.[47]
In between voyages, he married Polly in 1750, and he found it more difficult to leave her at the beginning of each trip. After three shipping voyages in the slave trade, Newton was promised a position as ship's captain with cargo unrelated to slavery. But at the age of thirty, he collapsed and never sailed again.[17][f]
According to the Dictionary of American Hymnology, "Amazing Grace" is John Newton's spiritual autobiography in verse.[4]
Stowe, Harriet Beecher (1899). Uncle Tom's Cabin, or Life Among the Lowly, R. F. Fenno & Company, New York City.
Amazing Grace: The story behind the song and its connection to Lough Swilly
^ a b c "Amazing Grace How Sweet the Sound", Dictionary of American Hymnology. Retrieved 31 October 2009.
Newton, John (1824). The Works of the Rev. John Newton Late Rector of the United Parishes of St. Mary Woolnoth and St. Mary Woolchurch Haw, London: Volume 1, Nathan Whiting, London.
This page was last edited on 27 February 2023, at 02:47 (UTC).
Working as a customs agent in Liverpool starting in 1756, Newton began to teach himself Latin, Greek, and theology. He and Polly immersed themselves in the church community, and Newton's passion was so impressive that his friends suggested he become a priest in the Church of England. He was turned down by John Gilbert, Archbishop of York, in 1758, ostensibly for having no university degree,[18] although the more likely reasons were his leanings toward evangelism and tendency to socialise with Methodists.[19] Newton continued his devotions, and after being encouraged by a friend, he wrote about his experiences in the slave trade and his conversion. William Legge, 2nd Earl of Dartmouth, impressed with his story, sponsored Newton for ordination by John Green, Bishop of Lincoln, and offered him the curacy of Olney, Buckinghamshire, in 1764.[20]
Newton often openly mocked the captain by creating obscene poems and songs about him, whichbecame so popular that the crew began to join in.[9] His disagreements with several colleagues resulted in his being starved almost to death, imprisoned while at sea, and chained like the slaves they carried. He was himself enslaved by the Sherbro and forced to work on a plantation in Sierra Leone near the Sherbro River. After several months he came to think of Sierra Leone as his home, but his father intervened after Newton sent him a letter describing his circumstances, and crew from another ship happened to find him.[c] Newton claimed the only reason he left Sierra Leone was because of Polly.[10]
Amazing Grace: Special Presentation: Amazing Grace Timeline United States Library of Congress Performing Arts Encyclopedia. Retrieved 1 November 2008.
Benson, Louis (1915). The English Hymn: Its Development and Use in Worship, The Presbyterian Board of Publication, Philadelphia.
^ Newton's biographers and Newton himself does not put a name to this episode other than a "fit" in which he became unresponsive, suffering dizziness and a headache. His doctor advised him not to go to sea again, and Newton complied. Jonathan Aitken called it a stroke or seizure, but its cause is unknown. (Martin [1950], pp. 140–141.)(Aitken, p. 125.)
Ordained in the Church of England in 1764, Newton became the curate of Olney, Buckinghamshire, where he began to write hymns with poet William Cowper. "Amazing Grace" was written to illustrate a sermon on New Year's Day of 1773. It is unknown if there was any music accompanying the verses; it may have been chanted by the congregation. It debuted in print in 1779 in Newton's and Cowper's Olney Hymns, but settled into relative obscurity in England. In the United States, "Amazing Grace" became a popular song used by Baptist and Methodist preachers as part of their evangelizing, especially in the American South, during the Second Great Awakening of the early 19th century. It has been associated with more than 20 melodies. In 1835, American composer William Walker set it to the tune known as "New Britain" in a shape note format; this is the version most frequently sung today.
^ Young, Wesley (1 August 2013), "A tale of grace: Local filmmaker bringing story of John Newton to life". Winston-Salem Journal
Newton, John (1811). Thoughts Upon the African Slave Trade, Samuel Whiting and Co., London.
Newton wrote the words from personal experience; he grew up without any particular religious conviction, but his life's path was formed by a variety of twists and coincidences that were often put into motion by others' reactions to what they took as his recalcitrant insubordination. He was pressed (navally conscripted) into service with the Royal Navy, and after leaving the service, he became involved in the Atlantic slave trade. In 1748, a violent storm battered his vessel off the coast of County Donegal, Ireland, so severely that he called out to God for mercy. While this moment marked his spiritual conversion, he continued slave trading until 1754 or 1755, when he ended his seafaring altogether. Newton began studying Christian theology and later became an abolitionist.
The U.S. Library of Congress has a collection of 3,000 versions of and songs inspired by "Amazing Grace", some of which were first-time recordings by folklorists Alan and John Lomax, a father and son team who in 1932 travelled thousands of miles across the southern states of the US to capture the different regional styles of the song. More contemporary renditions include samples from such popular artists as Sam Cooke and the Soul Stirrers (1963), the Byrds (1970), Elvis Presley (1971), Skeeter Davis (1972), Mighty Clouds of Joy (1972), Amazing Rhythm Aces (1975), Willie Nelson (1976) and the Lemonheads (1992).[65]
^ Sutton, Brett (January 1982). "Shape-Note Tune Books and Primitive Hymns", Ethnomusicology, 26 (1), pp. 11–26.
Only since the 1950s has it gained some popularity in the UK; not until 1964 was it published with the music most commonly associated with it. (Noll and Blumhofer, p. 8)
"President Obama: Emanuel AME 'a phoenix rising from the ashes'"
Stripped of his rank, whipped in public, and subjected to the abuses directed to prisoners and other press-ganged men in the Navy, he demonstrated insolence and rebellion during his service for the next few months, remarking that the only reason he did not murder the captain or commit suicide was because he did not want Polly to think badly of him. (Martin [1950], pp. 41–47.)
Those songs come out of conviction and suffering. The worst voices can get through singing them 'cause they're telling their experiences.
Bruner, Kurt; Ware, Jim (2007). Finding God in the Story of Amazing Grace, Tyndale House Publishers, Inc. ISBN 1-4143-1181-8
The sermon preached by Newton was his last of those that William Cowper heard in Olney, since Cowper's mental instability returned shortly thereafter. One author suggests Newton may have had his friend in mind, employing the themes of assurance and deliverance from despair for Cowper's benefit.[38]
Collins decided to record it in the late 1960s amid an atmosphere of counterculture introspection; she was part of an encounter group that ended a contentious meeting by singing "Amazing Grace" as it was the only song to which all the members knew the words. Her producer was present and suggested she include a version of it on her 1970 album Whales & Nightingales. Collins, who had a history of alcohol abuse, claimed that the song was able to "pull her through" to recovery.[3] It was recorded in St. Paul's, the chapel at Columbia University, chosen for the acoustics. She chose an a cappella arrangement that was close to Edwin Othello Excell's, accompanied by a chorus of amateur singers who were friends of hers. Collins connected it to the Vietnam War, to which she objected: "I didn't know what else to do about the war in Vietnam. I had marched, I had voted, I had gone to jail on political actions and worked for the candidates I believed in. The war was still raging. There was nothing left to do, I thought ... but sing 'Amazing Grace'."[73] Gradually and unexpectedly, the song began to be played on the radio, and then be requested. It rose to number 15 on the Billboard Hot 100, remaining on the charts for 15 weeks,[74] as if, she wrote, her fans had been "waiting to embrace it".[75] In the UK, it charted 8 times between 1970 and 1972, peaking at number 5 and spending a total of 75 weeks on popular music charts.[76] Her rendition also reached number 5 in New Zealand[77] and number 12 in Ireland in 1971.[78]
AllMusic search=Amazing Grace Song Archived 11 February 2010 at the Wayback Machine, AllMusic. Retrieved 12 January 2019.
Wikimedia's Score extension allow readers to view and listen to any arrangement that has been expressed in Lilypond format.[98]
^ When Newton began his journal in 1750, not only was slave trading seen as a respectable profession by the majority of Britons, its necessity to the overall prosperity of the kingdom was communally understood and approved. Only Quakers, who were much in the minority and perceived as eccentric, had raised any protest about the practice. (Martin and Spurrell [1962], pp. xi–xii.)
Partly from Cowper's literary influence, and partly because learned vicars were expected to write verses, Newton began to try his hand at hymns, which had become popular through the language, made plain for common people to understand. Several prolific hymn writers were at their most productive in the 18th century, including Isaac Watts –whose hymns Newton had grown up hearing[24] –and Charles Wesley, with whom Newton was familiar. Wesley's brother John, the eventual founder of the Methodist Church, had encouraged Newton to go into the clergy.[g] Watts was a pioneer in English hymn writing, basing his work after the Psalms. The most prevalent hymns by Watts and others were written in the common meter in 8.6.8.6: the first line is eight syllables and the second is six.[25]
Watson, J. R. (ed.)(2002). An Annotated Anthology of Hymns, Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-826973-0
Due to its immense popularity and iconic nature, the meaning behind the words of "Amazing Grace" has become as individual as the singer or listener.[95] Bruce Hindmarsh suggests that the secular popularity of "Amazing Grace" is due to the absence of any mention of God in the lyrics until the fourth verse (by Excell's version, the fourth verse begins "When we've been there ten thousand years"), and that the song represents the ability of humanity to transform itself instead of a transformation taking place at the hands of God. "Grace", however, had a clearer meaning to John Newton, as he used the word to represent God or the power of God.[96]
^ AllMusic search=Amazing Grace Song Archived 11 February 2010 at the Wayback Machine, AllMusic. Retrieved 12 January 2019.
While aboard the ship Greyhound, Newton gained notoriety as being one of the most profane men the captain had ever met. In a culture where sailors habitually swore, Newton was admonished several times for not only using the worst words the captain had ever heard, but creating new ones to exceed the limits of verbal debauchery.[11] In March 1748, while the Greyhound was in the North Atlantic, a violent storm came upon the ship that was so rough it swept overboard a crew member who was standing where Newton had been moments before.[d] After hours of the crew emptying water from the ship and expecting to be capsized, Newton and another mate tied themselves to the ship's pump to keep from being washed overboard, working for several hours.[12] After proposing the measure to the captain, Newton had turned and said, "If this will not do, then Lord have mercy upon us!"[13][14] Newton rested briefly before returning to the deck to steer for the next eleven hours. During his time at the wheel, he pondered his divine challenge.[12]
^ Watts had previously written a hymn named "Alas! And Did My Saviour Bleed" that contained the lines "Amazing pity! Grace unknown!/ And love beyond degree!". Philip Doddridge, another well-known hymn writer, wrote another in 1755 titled "The Humiliation and Exaltation of God's Israel" that began "Amazing grace of God on high!" and included other similar wording to Newton's verses. Newton biographer Jonathan Aitken states that Watts had inspired most of Newton's compositions. (Turner, pp. 82–83.)(Aitken, pp. 28–29.)
In 1725, Newton was born in Wapping, a district in London near the Thames. His father was a shipping merchant who was brought up as a Catholic but had Protestant sympathies, and his mother was a devout Independent, unaffiliated with the Anglican Church. She had intended Newton to become a clergyman, but she died of tuberculosis when he was six years old.[5] For the next few years, while his father was at sea Newton was raised by his emotionally distant stepmother. He was also sent to boarding school, where he was mistreated.[6] At the age of eleven, he joined his father on a ship as an apprentice; his seagoing career would be marked by headstrong disobedience.
It has had particular influence in folk music, and has become an emblematic black spiritual. Its universal message has been a significant factor in its crossover into secular music. "Amazing Grace" became newly popular during the 1960s revival of American folk music, and it has been recorded thousands of times during and since the 20th century.
Julian, John (ed.)(1892). A Dictionary of Hymnology, Charles Scribner's Sons, New York.
Rourke, Mary; Gwathmey, Emily (1996). Amazing Grace in America: Our Spiritual National Anthem, Angel City Press. ISBN 1-883318-30-0
Pollock, John (2009). "Amazing Grace: The great Sea Change in the Life of John Newton", The Trinity Forum Reading, The Trinity Forum.
Duvall, Deborah (2000). Tahlequah and the Cherokee Nation, Arcadia Publishing. ISBN 0-7385-0782-2
"President Obama: Emanuel AME 'a phoenix rising from the ashes'". MSNBC. 17 September 2014. Retrieved 28 June 2015.
The general impact of Olney Hymns was immediate and it became a widely popular tool for evangelicals in Britain for many years. Scholars appreciated Cowper's poetry somewhat more than Newton's plaintive and plain language, expressing his forceful personality. The most prevalent themes in the verses written by Newton in Olney Hymns are faith in salvation, wonder at God's grace, his love for Jesus, and his cheerful exclamations of the joy he found in his faith.[26] As a reflection of Newton's connection to his parishioners, he wrote many of the hymns in first person, admitting his own experience with sin. Bruce Hindmarsh in Sing Them Over Again To Me: Hymns and Hymnbooks in America considers "Amazing Grace" an excellent example of Newton's testimonial style afforded by the use of this perspective.[27] Several of Newton's hymns were recognised as great work ("Amazing Grace" was not among them), while others seem to have been included to fill in when Cowper was unable to write.[28] Jonathan Aitken calls Newton, specifically referring to "Amazing Grace", an "unashamedly middlebrow lyricist writing for a lowbrow congregation", noting that only twenty-one of the nearly 150 words used in all six verses have more than one syllable.[29]
^ "Mahalia Jackson". Dictionary of American Biography, Supplement 9: 1971–1975. Charles Scribner's Sons, 1994.
Basker, James (2002). Amazing Grace: An Anthology of Poems About Slavery, 1660–1810, Yale University Press. ISBN 0-300-09172-9
^ Stripped of his rank, whipped in public, and subjected to the abuses directed to prisoners and other press-ganged men in the Navy, he demonstrated insolence and rebellion during his service for the next few months, remarking that the only reason he did not murder the captain or commit suicide was because he did not want Polly to think badly of him. (Martin [1950], pp. 41–47.)
The title ascribed to the hymn, "1 Chronicles 17:16–17", refers to David's reaction to the prophet Nathan telling him that God intends to maintain his family line forever. Some Christians interpret this as a prediction that Jesus Christ, as a descendant of David, was promised by God as the salvation for all people.[34] Newton's sermon on that January day in 1773 focused on the necessity to express one's gratitude for God's guidance, that God is involved in the daily lives of Christians though they may not be aware of it, and that patience for deliverance from the daily trials of life is warranted when the glories of eternity await.[35] Newton saw himself a sinner like David who had been chosen, perhaps undeservedly,[36] and was humbled by it. According to Newton, unconverted sinners were "blinded by the god of this world" until "mercy came to us not only undeserved but undesired ... our hearts endeavored to shut him out till he overcame us by the power of his grace."[33]
As a youth, Newton began a pattern of coming very close to death, examining his relationship with God, then relapsing into bad habits. As a sailor, he denounced his faith after being influenced by a shipmate who discussed with him Characteristicks of Men, Manners, Opinions, Times, a book by the Third Earl of Shaftesbury. In a series of letters Newton later wrote, "Like an unwary sailor who quits his port just before a rising storm, I renounced the hopes and comforts of the Gospel at the very time when every other comfort was about to fail me."[7] His disobedience caused him to be pressed into the Royal Navy, and he took advantage of opportunities to overstay his leave.
"Mahalia Jackson". Dictionary of American Biography, Supplement 9: 1971–1975. Charles Scribner's Sons, 1994.
When Newton began his journal in 1750, not only was slave trading seen as a respectable profession by the majority of Britons, its necessity to the overall prosperity of the kingdom was communally understood and approved. Only Quakers, who were much in the minority and perceived as eccentric, had raised any protest about the practice. (Martin and Spurrell [1962], pp. xi–xii.)
Lipner, Julius J. (1994). Hindus: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices. Psychology Press. ISBN 978-0-415-05181-1.
^ Wayman, Alex (1965). "Climactic Times in Indian Mythology and Religion". History of Religions. The University of Chicago Press. 4 (2): 295–318. doi:10.1086/462508. JSTOR 1061961. S2CID 161923240.
^ Sivanath Sastri "History of the Brahmo Samaj" 1911/1912 1st edn. publ. Sadharan Brahmo Samaj, 211 Cornwallis St. Calcutta
Ravi Shankar (poet): "Oh manifest and unmanifest, wave and ray of breath, red lotus of insight, transfix us from eye to navel to throat, under canopy of stars spring from soil in an unbroken arc of light that we might immerse ourselves until lit from within like the sun itself."[25]
Bloomfield, Maurice (1906). A Vedic Concordance: Being an Alphabetic Index to Every Line of Every Stanza of the Published Vedic Literature and to the Liturgical Formulas Thereof; that Is, an Index to the Vedic Mantras, Together with an Account of Their Variations in the Different Vedic Books. Harvard university. ISBN 9788120806542.
Aitareya Brahmana: 4.32.2, 5.5.6, 5.13.8, 5.19.8; Kausitaki Brahmana: 23.3, 26.10; Asvalayana Srautasutra: 7.6.6, 8.1.18; Shankhayana Srautasutra: 2.10.2, 2.12.7, 5.5.2, 10.6.17, 10.9.16; Apastambha Srautasutra: 6.18.1
Singh, Kirpal (1961). The Crown of Life (PDF). p. 275.
Carpenter, David Bailey; Whicher, Ian (2003). Yoga: the Indian tradition. London: Routledge. p. 31. ISBN 0-7007-1288-7.
^ Pandya, Dr. Pranav (2001). Reviving the Vedic Culture of Yagya. Vedmata Gayatri Trust. pp. 25–28.
^ Constance Jones,James D. Ryan (2005), Encyclopedia of Hinduism, Infobase Publishing, p.167, entry "Gayatri Mantra"
^ Shults, Brett (May 2014). "On the Buddha's Use of Some Brahmanical Motifs in Pali Texts". Journal of the Oxford Centre for Buddhist Studies. 6: 119.
The Gāyatrī mantra is dedicated to Savitṛ, aSun deity. The mantra is attributed to the much revered sage Vishwamitra, who is also considered the author of Mandala 3 of Rig Veda. Many monotheistic sects of Hinduism such as Arya Samaj hold that the Gayatri mantra is in praise of One Supreme Creator known by the name Om as mentioned in the Yajur Veda, 40:17.[14][15]
Dutt, Manmatha Nath (1 March 2006). The Dharma Sastra Or the Hindu Law Codes. Kessinger Publishing. ISBN 978-1-4254-8964-9.
Vedas (1 January 2003). The Vedas: With Illustrative Extracts. Book Tree. ISBN 978-1-58509-223-9.
6.7, 6.34, albeit in a section known to be of late origin.
A.B. Keith, The Veda of the Black Yajus School entitled Taittiriya Sanhita, Harvard Oriental Series Vols 18-19, Harvard, 1914
^ Vivekananda, Swami (1915). The Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda. Advaita Ashram. p. 211.
(1953): "We meditate on the adorable glory of the radiant sun; may She inspire our intelligence."[21]
B. van Nooten and G. Holland, Rig Veda. A metrically restored text. Cambridge: Harvard Oriental Series (1994).[1] Archived 8 April 2016 at the Wayback Machine
^ Staal, Frits (June 1986). "The sound of religion". Numen. 33 (Fasc. 1): 33–64. doi:10.1163/156852786X00084. JSTOR 3270126.
In Sutta Nipata 3.4, the Buddha uses the Sāvitri mantra as a paradigmatic indicator of Brahmanic knowledge:
^ Monier Monier-Williams (1882). The Place which the Ṛig-veda Occupies in the Sandhyâ, and Other Daily Religious Services of the Hindus. Berlin: A. Asher & Company. p. 164.
5Usage											Toggle Usage subsection																					5.1Upanayana ceremony																											5.2Mantra-recitation																											5.3Brahmo Samaj																											5.4Hindu revivalism																											5.5Indonesian Hinduism																											5.6Popular culture
Sivanath Sastri "History of the Brahmo Samaj" 1911/1912 1st edn. publ. Sadharan Brahmo Samaj, 211 Cornwallis St. Calcutta
^ Title of the text was Prescript for offering supreme worship by means of the Gayutree, the most sacred of the Veds. Roy, Rammohun (1832). Translation of Several Principal Books, Passages and Texts of the Veds, and of Some Controversial Works on Brahmunical Theology: and of some controversial works on Brahmunical theology. Parbury, Allen, & co. p. 109.
"Rig Veda: Rig-Veda, Book 3: HYMN LXII. Indra and Others"
The Gayatri mantra is the apparent inspiration for derivative "gāyatrī" stanzas dedicated to other deities. Those derivations are patterned on the formula vidmahe - dhīmahi - pracodayāt",[35] and have been interpolated[36] into some recensions of the Shatarudriya litany.[note 11] Gāyatrīs of this form are also found in the Mahanarayana Upanishad.[note 12]
Monier Monier-Williams (1882): "Let us meditate on that excellent glory of the divine vivifying Sun, May he enlighten our understandings."[17][18]
savitur - from savitr̥, 'that which gives birth', 'the power inside the Sun' or the Sun itself
Guy L. Beck (2006). Sacred Sound: Experiencing Music in World Religions. Wilfrid Laurier University Press. p. 118. ISBN 978-0-88920-421-8.
Shankhayana grhyasutra: 2.5.12, 2.7.19; Khadira grhyasutra: 2.4.21; Apastambha grhyasutra: 4.10.9-12; Varaha grhyasutra: 5.26
Prescript for offering supreme worship by means of the Gayutree, the most sacred of the Veds
Cher, the singer/actress, in her Living Proof: The Farewell Tour, in 2002-2005,sang Gayatri mantra while riding a mechanical elephant. She later reprised the performance during her Classic Cher tour in 2017 (see picture).
The Swiss avantgarde black metal band Schammasch adapted the mantra as the outro in their song "The Empyrean" on their last album "Triangle" as a Gregorian chant.[50]
Radhakrishnan, Sarvepalli (1994). The Bhagavadgita: With an Introductory Essay, Sanskrit Text, English Translation, and Notes. HarperCollins. ISBN 978-81-7223-087-6.
Judge Quan, William (January 1893). "A COMMENTARY ON THE GAYATRI". The Path. Archived from the original on 14 June 2010.
^ Bikkhu, Sujato (2018). Majjhima Nikaya translated by Bhikkhu Sujato.
Vivekananda, Swami (1915). The Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda. Advaita Ashram. p. 211.
^ The word Savitr in the original Sanskrit may be interpreted in two ways, first as the sun, secondly as the "originator or creator". Raja Ram Mohan Roy and Maharshi Debendranath Tagore used that word in the second sense. Interpreted in their way the whole formula may be thus rendered.
Title of the text was Prescript for offering supreme worship by means of the Gayutree, the most sacred of the Veds. Roy, Rammohun (1832). Translation of Several Principal Books, Passages and Texts of the Veds, and of Some Controversial Works on Brahmunical Theology: and of some controversial works on Brahmunical theology. Parbury, Allen, & co. p. 109.
Appendix "C", Sivanath Sastri "History of the Brahmo Samaj" 1911/1912 1st edn. page XVI, publ. Sadharan Brahmo Samaj, 211 Cornwallis St. Calcutta, read : "History Of The Brahmo Samaj Vol. 1 : Sastri, Sivanath-Internet Archive". 1911.. Retrieved on 23 November 2020.
The Gayatri mantra is cited widely in Hindu texts, such as the mantra listings of the Śrauta liturgy,[note 3][note 4] and cited several times in the Brahmanams and the Srauta-sutras.[note 5][note 6] It is also cited in a number of grhyasutras, mostly in connection with the upanayana ceremony[34] in which it has a significant role.
^ Aitareya Brahmana: 4.32.2, 5.5.6, 5.13.8, 5.19.8; Kausitaki Brahmana: 23.3, 26.10; Asvalayana Srautasutra: 7.6.6, 8.1.18; Shankhayana Srautasutra: 2.10.2, 2.12.7, 5.5.2, 10.6.17, 10.9.16; Apastambha Srautasutra: 6.18.1
^ In this corpus, there is only one instance of the stanza being prefixed with the three mahavyahrtis.[32] This is in a late supplementary chapter of the Shukla Yajurveda samhita, listing the mantras used in the preliminaries to the pravargya ceremony.However, none of the parallel texts of the pravargya rite in other samhitas have the stanza at all. A form of the mantra with all seven vyahrtis prefixed is found in the last book of the Taittiriya Aranyaka, better known as the Mahanarayana Upanishad.[33] It is as follows:ओम् भूः ओम् भुवः ओम् सुवः ओम् महः ओम् जनः ओम् तपः ओम् स॒त्यम्।      ओम् तत्स॑वि॒तुर्वरे॑ण्य॒म् भर्गो॑ दे॒वस्य॑ धीमहि।      धियो॒ यो नः॑ प्रचो॒दया॑त्।       ओमापो॒ ज्योती॒ रसो॒ऽमृतं॒ ब्रह्म॒ भूर्भुव॒स्सुव॒रोम्।
4Textual appearances											Toggle Textual appearances subsection																					4.1Hindu literature																											4.2Buddhist corpus
Shriram Sharma: Om, the Brahm, the Universal Divine Energy, vital spiritual energy (Pran), the essence of our life existence,Positivity, destroyer of sufferings, the happiness, that is bright, luminous like the Sun, best, destroyer of evil thoughts, the divinity who grants happiness may imbibe its Divinity and Brilliance within us which may purify us and guide our righteous wisdom on the right path.[26]
A variation on the William Quan Judge translation is also used as the introduction to Kate Bush's song "Lily" on her 1993 album, The Red Shoes.
In the game Homeworld: Deserts of Kharak (2016), Gayatri Mantra can be heard being sung during the destruction of Gaalsien flagship, Hand of Sajuuk, in the final mission of campaign, Khar-Toba.
^ Jones, William (1807). The works of Sir William Jones. Vol. 13. J. Stockdale and J. Walker. p. 367.
The Gayatri mantra has been translated in many ways.[note 1] Quite literal translations include:
Gayatri meter, called Gayatri Chandas in Sanskrit, is twenty-four syllables comprising three lines (Sk. padas, literally "feet") of eight syllables each. The Gayatri mantra as received is short one syllable in the first line: tat sa vi tur va reṇ yaṃ.Being only twenty-three syllables the Gayatri mantra is Nichruth Gayatri Chandas ("Gayatri meter short by one syllable"). A reconstruction of vareṇyaṃ to a proposed historical vareṇiyaṃ restores the first line to eight syllables. In practise, people reciting the mantra may retain seven syllables and simply prolong the length of time they pronounce the "m", they may append an extra syllable of "mmm" (approximately va-ren-yam-mmm), or they may use the reconstructed vareṇiyaṃ.
Forrest Morgan, ed. (1904). The Bibliophile Library of Literature, Art and Rare Manuscripts. Vol. 1. et al. New York: The International Bibliophile Society. p. 14.
Bakhle, Janaki (2005). Two men and music: nationalism in the making of an Indian classical tradition. Oxford University Press. p. 293. ISBN 978-0-19-516610-1.
Jan Gonda, "The Indian mantra", Oriens, Vol. 16, (31 December 1963), pp. 244–297
Roy, Ram Mohan (1901). Prescript for offering supreme worship by means of the Gayutree, the most sacred of the Veds. Kuntaline press. So, at the end of the Gayutree, the utterance of the letter Om is commanded by the sacred passage cited by Goonu-Vishnoo 'A Brahman shall in every instance pronounce Om, at the beginning and at the end; for unless the letter Om precede, the desirable consequence will fail; and unless it follow, it will not be long retained.'
^ "Amitabh Bachchan in Hot Water Over Gayatri Mantra with Shoes". Hinduism Tonday. Retrieved 16 January 2021.
^ Appendix "C", Sivanath Sastri "History of the Brahmo Samaj" 1911/1912 1st edn. page XVI, publ. Sadharan Brahmo Samaj, 211 Cornwallis St. Calcutta, read : "History Of The Brahmo Samaj Vol. 1 : Sastri, Sivanath-Internet Archive". 1911.. Retrieved on 23 November 2020.
Translation of Several Principal Books, Passages and Texts of the Veds, and of Some Controversial Works on Brahmunical Theology: and of some controversial works on Brahmunical theology
Maharshi Dayananda Saraswati (founder of Arya Samaj): "Oh God! Thou art the Giver of Life, Remover of pain and sorrow, The Bestower of happiness. Oh! Creator of the Universe, May we receive thy supreme sin-destroying light, May Thou guide our intellect in the right direction."[30]
The Bhagavadgita: With an Introductory Essay, Sanskrit Text, English Translation, and Notes
6.3.6 in the well-known Kanva recension, numbered 6.3.11-13 in the Madhyamdina recension.
^ a b Evening talks with Sri Aurobindo (4th rev. ed.). Sri Aurobindo Ashram, Publication Dept. 2007. pp. 58–59. ISBN 978-81-7058-865-8.
Rahman, M. M. (1 January 2005). Encyclopaedia of Historiography. Anmol Publications Pvt. Limited. ISBN 978-81-261-2305-6.
Island Secrets: Stories of Love, Lust and Loss in Bali
aggihuttamukhā yaññā sāvittī chandaso mukham; Rājā mukhaṃ manussānaṃ, nadīnaṃ sāgaro mukhaṃ. Nakkhattānaṃ mukhaṃ cando, ādicco tapataṃ mukhaṃ; Puññaṃ ākaṅkhamānānaṃ, saṅgho ve yajataṃ mukhan.
Roshen Dalal (2010), The Religions of India: A Concise Guide to Nine Major Faiths, Penguin Books India, p.328, entry "Savitr, god"
L.A. Ravi Varma, "Rituals of worship", The Cultural Heritage of India, Vol. 4, The Ramakrishna Mission Institute of Culture, Calcutta, 1956, pp. 445–463
The word Savitr in the original Sanskrit may be interpreted in two ways, first as the sun, secondly as the "originator or creator". Raja Ram Mohan Roy and Maharshi Debendranath Tagore used that word in the second sense. Interpreted in their way the whole formula may be thus rendered.
If you say you brahmin are, but call me none,then of you I ask the chant of Sāvitrī,consisting of three lines
(1947): "We meditate on the effulgent glory of the divine Light; may he inspire our understanding."[20]
In Majjhima Nikaya 92, the Buddha refers to the Sāvitri (Pali: sāvittī) mantra as the foremost meter, in the same sense as the king is foremost among humans, or the sun is foremost among lights:
Imparting the Gayatri mantra to young Hindu men is an important part of the traditional upanayana ceremony, which marks the beginning of study of the Vedas. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan described this as the essence of the ceremony,[20] which is sometimes called "Gayatri diksha", i.e. initiation into the Gayatri mantra.[39] However, traditionally, the stanza RV.3.62.10 is imparted only to Brahmana. Other Gayatri verses are used in the upanayana ceremony are: RV.1.35.2, in the tristubh meter, for a kshatriya and either RV.1.35.9 or RV.4.40.5 in the jagati meter for a Vaishya.[40]
Woodroffe, John (1972). Tantra of the Great Liberation (Mahānirvāna Tantra). Dover Publications, Inc. p. xc.
^ Forrest Morgan, ed. (1904). The Bibliophile Library of Literature, Art and Rare Manuscripts. Vol. 1. et al. New York: The International Bibliophile Society. p. 14.
^ Griffith, Ralph T. H. (1890). The Hymns of the Rigveda. E.J. Lazarus. p. 87.
The film Mohabbatein (2000) directed by Aditya Chopra which came under controversy when Amitabh Bachchan recited the sacred Gayatri Mantra with his shoes on leading some Vedic scholars in Varanasi to complain that it insulted Hinduism[51]
The main mantra appears in the hymn RV 3.62.10. During its recitation, the hymn is preceded by oṃ (ॐ) and the formula bhūr bhuvaḥ svaḥ (भूर् भुवः स्वः). This prefixing of the mantra is properly described in the Taittiriya Aranyaka (2.11.1-8), which states that it should be chanted with the syllable oṃ, followed by the three Vyahrtis and the Gayatri verse.[11] Whereas in principle the gāyatrī mantra specifies three pādas of eight syllables each, the text of the verse as preserved in the Samhita is one short, seven instead of eight. Metrical restoration would emend the attested tri-syllabic vareṇyaṃ with a tetra-syllabic vareṇiyaṃ.[12]
In 1827 Ram Mohan Roy published a dissertation on the Gayatri mantra[41]that analysed it in the context of various Upanishads. Roy prescribed a Brahmin to always pronounce om at the beginning and end of the Gayatri mantra.[42] From 1830, the Gayatri mantra was used for private devotion of Brahmos. In 1843, the First Covenant of Brahmo Samaj required the Gayatri mantra for Divine Worship. From 1848-1850 with the rejection of Vedas, the Adi Dharma Brahmins use the Gayatri mantra in their private devotions.[43]
George Harrison (The Beatles): on the life-size statue representing him, unveiled in 2015 in Liverpool, the Gayatri mantra engraved on the belt, to symbolize a landmark event in his life (see picture).
Shults, Brett (May 2014). "On the Buddha's Use of Some Brahmanical Motifs in Pali Texts". Journal of the Oxford Centre for Buddhist Studies. 6: 119.
Mitra, S. S. (2001). Bengal's Renaissance. Academic Publishers. p. 71. ISBN 978-81-87504-18-4.
The Gayatri Mantra forms the first of seven sections of the Trisandhyā Puja (Sanskrit for "three divisions"), a prayer used by the Balinese Hindus and many Hindus in Indonesia. It is uttered three times each day: 6 am at morning, noon, and 6 pm at evening.[47][48]
Where it is used without any special distinction, typically as one among several stanzas dedicated to Savitar at appropriate points in the various rituals.
^ Guy L. Beck (2006). Sacred Sound: Experiencing Music in World Religions. Wilfrid Laurier University Press. p. 118. ISBN 978-0-88920-421-8.
^ Singh, Kirpal (1961). The Crown of Life (PDF). p. 275.
Jones, William (1807). The works of Sir William Jones. Vol. 13. J. Stockdale and J. Walker. p. 367.
Monier Monier-Williams (1882). The Place which the Ṛig-veda Occupies in the Sandhyâ, and Other Daily Religious Services of the Hindus. Berlin: A. Asher & Company. p. 164.
Sri Aurobindo: "We choose the Supreme Light of the divine Sun; we aspire that it may impel our minds."[22] Sri Aurobindo further elaborates: "The Sun is the symbol of divine Light that is coming down and Gayatri gives expression to the aspiration asking that divine Light to come down and give impulsion to all the activities of the mind."[22]
Brāhmaṇo hi ce tvaṃ brūsi, Mañca brūsi abrāhmaṇaṃ; Taṃ taṃ sāvittiṃ pucchāmi, Tipadaṃ catuvīsatakkharaṃ
Griffith, Ralph T. H. (1890). The Hymns of the Rigveda. E.J. Lazarus. p. 87.
William Quan Judge (1893): "Unveil, O Thou who givest sustenance to the Universe, from whom all proceed, to whom all must return, that face of the True Sun now hidden by a vase of golden light, that we may see the truth and do our whole duty on our journey to thy sacred seat."[28]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Rig Veda: Rig-Veda, Book 3: HYMN LXII. Indra and Others". www.sacred-texts.com. Retrieved 29 September 2020.
^ Roy, Ram Mohan (1901). Prescript for offering supreme worship by means of the Gayutree, the most sacred of the Veds. Kuntaline press. So, at the end of the Gayutree, the utterance of the letter Om is commanded by the sacred passage cited by Goonu-Vishnoo 'A Brahman shall in every instance pronounce Om, at the beginning and at the end; for unless the letter Om precede, the desirable consequence will fail; and unless it follow, it will not be long retained.'
"Amitabh Bachchan in Hot Water Over Gayatri Mantra with Shoes". Hinduism Tonday. Retrieved 16 January 2021.
dhiyoḥ - intellect, a faculty of the spirit inside the body, life activity
^ "Analysis: Schammasch - "Triangle"". Metal Lifestyle. Retrieved 16 April 2020.
"On the Buddha's Use of Some Brahmanical Motifs in Pali Texts"
^ Woodroffe, John (1972). Tantra of the Great Liberation (Mahānirvāna Tantra). Dover Publications, Inc. p. xc.
^ B. van Nooten and G. Holland, Rig Veda. A metrically restored text. Cambridge: Harvard Oriental Series (1994).[1] Archived 8 April 2016 at the Wayback Machine
Two men and music: nationalism in the making of an Indian classical tradition
Sir John Woodroffe (Arthur Avalon) (1913): "Om. Let us contemplate the wondrous spirit of the Divine Creator (Savitri) of the earthly, atmospheric, and celestial spheres. May He direct our minds (that is, 'towards' the attainment of dharmma, artha, kama, and moksha), Om."[24]
vareṇiyaṁ - to choose, to select; the most choosable, the best
Stephanie Jamison (2015). The Rigveda –– Earliest Religious Poetry of India. Oxford University Press. p. 554. ISBN 978-0190633394.
^ a b c Radhakrishnan, Sarvepalli (1947). Religion and Society. p. 135. ISBN 9781406748956.
^ This is on the authority of the Shankhayana Grhyasutra, 2.5.4-7 and 2.7.10.J. Gonda, "The Indian mantra", Oriens, Vol. 16, (31 December 1963), p. 285
Stephanie W. Jamison and Joel P. Brereton: "Might we make our own that desirable effulgence of god Savitar, who will rouse forth our insights."[23]
This is on the authority of the Shankhayana Grhyasutra, 2.5.4-7 and 2.7.10.J. Gonda, "The Indian mantra", Oriens, Vol. 16, (31 December 1963), p. 285
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Rig Veda: Rig-Veda, Book 3: HYMN LXII. Indra and Others". www.sacred-texts.com. Retrieved 29 September 2020.
^ Dravida recension: 27.1; Andhra recension: 35.1; Atharva recension: 15.2
In this corpus, there is only one instance of the stanza being prefixed with the three mahavyahrtis.[32] This is in a late supplementary chapter of the Shukla Yajurveda samhita, listing the mantras used in the preliminaries to the pravargya ceremony.However, none of the parallel texts of the pravargya rite in other samhitas have the stanza at all. A form of the mantra with all seven vyahrtis prefixed is found in the last book of the Taittiriya Aranyaka, better known as the Mahanarayana Upanishad.[33] It is as follows:ओम् भूः ओम् भुवः ओम् सुवः ओम् महः ओम् जनः ओम् तपः ओम् स॒त्यम्।      ओम् तत्स॑वि॒तुर्वरे॑ण्य॒म् भर्गो॑ दे॒वस्य॑ धीमहि।      धियो॒ यो नः॑ प्रचो॒दया॑त्।       ओमापो॒ ज्योती॒ रसो॒ऽमृतं॒ ब्रह्म॒ भूर्भुव॒स्सुव॒रोम्।
Staal, Frits (June 1986). "The sound of religion". Numen. 33 (Fasc. 1): 33–64. doi:10.1163/156852786X00084. JSTOR 3270126.
Radhakrishnan, Sarvepalli (1947). Religion and Society. p. 135. ISBN 9781406748956.
^ 6.3.6 in the well-known Kanva recension, numbered 6.3.11-13 in the Madhyamdina recension.
^ 6.7, 6.34, albeit in a section known to be of late origin.
Constance Jones,James D. Ryan (2005), Encyclopedia of Hinduism, Infobase Publishing, p.167, entry "Gayatri Mantra"
^ Stephanie Jamison (2015). The Rigveda –– Earliest Religious Poetry of India. Oxford University Press. p. 554. ISBN 978-0190633394.
Gayatri japa is used as a method of prāyaścitta (atonement). It is believed by practitioners that reciting the mantra bestows wisdom and enlightenment, through the vehicle of the Sun (Savitr), who represents the source and inspiration of the universe.[20]
Sivanath Sastri (Brahmo Samaj) (1911): "We meditate on the worshipable power and glory of Him who has created the earth, the nether world and the heavens (i.e. the universe), and who directs our understanding."[29][note 2]
In the later 19th century, Hindu reform movements spread the chanting of the Gayatri mantra. In 1898 for example, Swami Vivekananda claimed that, according to the Vedas and the Bhagavad Gita, a person became Brahmana through learning from his Guru, and not because of birth. He administered the sacred thread ceremony and the Gayatri mantra to non-Brahmins in Ramakrishna Mission.[44] This Hindu mantra has been popularized to the masses, pendants, audio recordings and mock scrolls.[45] Various Gayatri yajñas organised by All World Gayatri Pariwar at small and large scales in late twentieth century also helped spread Gayatri mantra to the masses.[46]
This page was last edited on 15 March 2023, at 06:44 (UTC).
^ A literal translation oftát savitúr váreṇ(i)yaṃbhárgo devásya dhīmahidhíyo yó naḥ pracodayātis as follows:tat - thatsavitur - from savitr̥, 'that which gives birth', 'the power inside the Sun' or the Sun itselfvareṇiyaṁ - to choose, to select; the most choosable, the bestbhargoḥ- to be luminous, the self-luminous onedevasya - luminous/ radiant, the divine.tatsavitur devasya - "of that divine entity called Savitṛ"dhīmahi - whose wisdom and knowledge flow, like watersdhiyoḥ - intellect, a faculty of the spirit inside the body, life activityyoḥ - whichnaḥ - our, of uspracodayāt - to move in a specific direction.cod - to move (something/somebody) in a specific direction.hinapra - the prefix "forth, forward."pracud - "to move (something/somebody) forward"prachodayāt - "may it move (something/somebody) forward"; inspires
^ Roshen Dalal (2010), The Religions of India: A Concise Guide to Nine Major Faiths, Penguin Books India, p.328, entry "Savitr, god"
Swami Vivekananda: "We meditate on the glory of that Being who has produced this universe; may She enlighten our minds."[16]
Kirpal Singh: "Muttering the sacred syllable 'Aum' rise above the three regions, And turn thy attention to the All-Absorbing Sun within. Accepting its influence be thou absorbed in the Sun, And it shall in its own likeness make thee All-Luminous."[31]
^ Judge Quan, William (January 1893). "A COMMENTARY ON THE GAYATRI". The Path. Archived from the original on 14 June 2010.
The Gayatri mantra is also repeated and cited widely inHindu texts such as the Bhagavad Gita,[4][5] Harivamsa,[6] and Manusmṛti. [7]
ॐ भूर्भुव॒ स्सुवः॑ तत्स॑ वि॒तुर्वरे᳚ण्यं॒ भर्गो॑ दे॒वस्य॑ धीमहि धियो॒ यो नः॑ प्रचो॒दया᳚त् ॥
A literal translation oftát savitúr váreṇ(i)yaṃbhárgo devásya dhīmahidhíyo yó naḥ pracodayātis as follows:tat - thatsavitur - from savitr̥, 'that which gives birth', 'the power inside the Sun' or the Sun itselfvareṇiyaṁ - to choose, to select; the most choosable, the bestbhargoḥ- to be luminous, the self-luminous onedevasya - luminous/ radiant, the divine.tatsavitur devasya - "of that divine entity called Savitṛ"dhīmahi - whose wisdom and knowledge flow, like watersdhiyoḥ - intellect, a faculty of the spirit inside the body, life activityyoḥ - whichnaḥ - our, of uspracodayāt - to move in a specific direction.cod - to move (something/somebody) in a specific direction.hinapra - the prefix "forth, forward."pracud - "to move (something/somebody) forward"prachodayāt - "may it move (something/somebody) forward"; inspires
^ Island Secrets: Stories of Love, Lust and Loss in Bali
Wayman, Alex (1965). "Climactic Times in Indian Mythology and Religion". History of Religions. The University of Chicago Press. 4 (2): 295–318. doi:10.1086/462508. JSTOR 1061961. S2CID 161923240.
Evening talks with Sri Aurobindo (4th rev. ed.). Sri Aurobindo Ashram, Publication Dept. 2007. pp. 58–59. ISBN 978-81-7058-865-8.
"History Of The Brahmo Samaj Vol. 1 : Sastri, Sivanath-Internet Archive"
Sir William Jones (1807): "Let us adore the supremacy of that divine sun, the god-head who illuminates all, who recreates all, from whom all proceed, to whom all must return, whom we invoke to direct our understandings right in our progress toward his holy seat."[27]
The HBO show White Lotus (2021) features a character singing a version of the Gayatri Mantra multiple times throughout the first season.
^ a b Carpenter, David Bailey; Whicher, Ian (2003). Yoga: the Indian tradition. London: Routledge. p. 31. ISBN 0-7007-1288-7.
The Place which the Ṛig-veda Occupies in the Sandhyâ, and Other Daily Religious Services of the Hindus
^ Bakhle, Janaki (2005). Two men and music: nationalism in the making of an Indian classical tradition. Oxford University Press. p. 293. ISBN 978-0-19-516610-1.
The Gāyatrī Mantra, also known as the Sāvitri Mantra, is a highly revered mantra from the Rig Veda (Mandala 3.62.10),[1] dedicated to the Vedic deity Savitr.[1][2] Gāyatrī is the name of the Goddess of the Vedic meter in which the verse is composed.[3] Its recitation is traditionally preceded by oṃ and the formula bhūr bhuvaḥ svaḥ, known as the mahāvyāhṛti, or "great (mystical) utterance". The Gayatri mantra is cited widely in Hindu texts, such as the mantra listings of the Śrauta liturgy, and classical Hindu texts such as the Bhagavad Gita,[4][5] Harivamsa,[6] and Manusmṛti.[7] The mantra and its associated metric form was known by the Buddha.[8]The mantra is an important part of the upanayana ceremony. Modern Hindu reform movements spread the practice of the mantra to everyone and its use is now very widespread.[9][10]
A version of the Gayatri mantra is featured in the opening theme song of the TV series Battlestar Galactica (2004).[49]
"Analysis: Schammasch - "Triangle"". Metal Lifestyle. Retrieved 16 April 2020.
A Vedic Concordance: Being an Alphabetic Index to Every Line of Every Stanza of the Published Vedic Literature and to the Liturgical Formulas Thereof; that Is, an Index to the Vedic Mantras, Together with an Account of Their Variations in the Different Vedic Books
The foremost of sacrifices is offering to the sacred flame;the Sāvittī is the foremost of poetic meters;of humans, the king is the foremost;the ocean’s the foremost of rivers;the foremost of stars is the moon;the sun is the foremost of lights;for those who sacrifice seeking merit,
Pandya, Dr. Pranav (2001). Reviving the Vedic Culture of Yagya. Vedmata Gayatri Trust. pp. 25–28.
Rinehart, Robin (1 January 2004). Contemporary Hinduism: Ritual, Culture, and Practice. ABC-CLIO. ISBN 978-1-57607-905-8.
Sama Veda: 2.812; Vajasenayi Samhita (M): 3.35, 22.9, 30.2, 36.3; Taittiriya Samhita: 1.5.6.4, 1.5.8.4, 4.1.11.1; Maitrayani Samhita: 4.10.3; Taittiriya Aranyaka: 1.11.2
"Amitabh Bachchan in Hot Water Over Gayatri Mantra with Shoes"
^ Where it is used without any special distinction, typically as one among several stanzas dedicated to Savitar at appropriate points in the various rituals.
^ Sama Veda: 2.812; Vajasenayi Samhita (M): 3.35, 22.9, 30.2, 36.3; Taittiriya Samhita: 1.5.6.4, 1.5.8.4, 4.1.11.1; Maitrayani Samhita: 4.10.3; Taittiriya Aranyaka: 1.11.2
^ Mitra, S. S. (2001). Bengal's Renaissance. Academic Publishers. p. 71. ISBN 978-81-87504-18-4.
The Gayatri mantra is the subject of esoteric treatment and explanation in some major Upanishads, including Mukhya Upanishads such as the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad,[note 7] the Shvetashvatara Upanishad[note 8] and the Maitrayaniya Upanishad;[note 9] as well as other well-known works such as the Jaiminiya Upanishad Brahmana.[note 10] The text also appears in minor Upanishads, such as the Surya Upanishad.
Swami Sivananda: "Let us meditate on Isvara and His Glory who has created the Universe, who is fit to be worshipped, who is the remover of all sins and ignorance. May he enlighten our intellect."
Ralph T.H. Griffith (1896): "May we attain that excellent glory of Savitar the god: So may He stimulate our prayers."[19]
^ Shankhayana grhyasutra: 2.5.12, 2.7.19; Khadira grhyasutra: 2.4.21; Apastambha grhyasutra: 4.10.9-12; Varaha grhyasutra: 5.26
This page was last edited on 16 January 2021, at 16:26 (UTC).
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Donna De Lory – In the Glow". AllMusic. Retrieved September 9, 2019.
In the Glow is the fourth studio album by American singer and songwriter Donna de Lory, independently released on November 26, 2003. It serves as her first album of completely original material since 2000's Bliss.
^ In the Glow (Liner notes). Donna De Lory. Secret Road. 2003. SR0004.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
In the Glow (Liner notes). Donna De Lory. De Lory Music. 2003. 714055000426.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ In the Glow (Liner notes). Donna De Lory. De Lory Music. 2003. 714055000426.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Donna De Lory – In the Glow". AllMusic. Retrieved September 9, 2019.
{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
In the Glow (Liner notes). Donna De Lory. Secret Road. 2003. SR0004.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
In the late 2010s, artists began a trend of releasing multiple singles before eventually releasing a studio album. An unnamed A&R representative confirmed to Rolling Stone in 2018 that "an artist has to build a foundation to sustain" and added that "When artists have one big record and go run with that, it doesn't work because they never had a foundation to begin with." The same article cited examples such as Cardi B, Camila Cabello and Jason Derulo releasing four or more singles prior to their album releases.[18]
In music, a single is a type of release, typically a song recording of fewer tracks than an LP record[1] or an album. One can be released for sale to the public in a variety of formats. In most cases, a single is a song that is released separately from an album, although it usually also appears on an album. In other cases a recording released as a single may not appear on an album.
Spencer Drate 45 RPM: A Visual History of the Seven-Inch Record, Princeton Architectural Press, 2002, p.10
"Tool Plots 'Vicarious' DVD Single". Billboard. 10 May 2006. Retrieved 10 June 2016.
"Music Sales Slip in 2011 But Digital Singles and Albums Sell Strongly"
"The Official UK Charts Company : Info pack from The Official UK Charts Company"
To compete with Columbia, RCA released albums as boxes of 45 rpm seven-inch singles that could be played continuously like an LP on their record changer. RCA was also releasing 7-inch singles pressed in different colors for different genres, making it easy for customers to find their preferred music. The novelty of multicolored singles wore off soon: by 1952, all RCA singles were pressed in black vinyl.[9]
As digital downloading and audio streaming have become more prevalent, it has become possible for every track on an album to also be available separately. Nevertheless, the concept of a single from an album has been retained as an identification of the more heavily promoted or more popular songs on an album. The demand for music downloads skyrocketed after the launch of Apple's iTunes Store (then called iTunes Music Store) in January 2001 and the creation of portable music and digital audio players such as the iPod.[citation needed]
"Web fans boost Marillion single". BBC News. 16 April 2004. Retrieved 10 June 2016.[permanent dead link]
Dance music, however, has followed a different commercial pattern and the single, especially the 12-inch vinyl single, remains a major method by which dance music is distributed.
"Why Your Favorite Artist Is Releasing More Singles Than Ever". Rolling Stone. 6 May 2018. Retrieved 28 September 2019.
"Music Sales Slip in 2011 But Digital Singles and Albums Sell Strongly" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 January 2012. Retrieved 23 January 2020.
Kim, Mi-hwa (1 May 2005). "Big Bang, singok 'Rujeo' 'Bebe' deureoboni..seulpeun gamseong chabunhan jungdokseong" 빅뱅, 신곡 '루저'·'베베' 들어보니..슬픈 감성+차분한 중독성 [Listen to Big Bang's New Songs 'Loser' and 'Bae Bae': sad, emotional, relaxing, addictive] (in Korean). MTN [ko]. Retrieved 17 January 2019.
^ "The Official UK Charts Company : Info pack from The Official UK Charts Company" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 July 2011.
Single sales in the United Kingdom reached an all-time low in January 2005, as the popularity of the compact disc was overtaken by the then-unofficial medium of the music download. Recognizing this, on 17 April 2005, Official UK Singles Chart added the download format to the existing format of physical CD singles. Gnarls Barkley was the first act to reach No.1 on this chart through downloads alone in April 2006, for their debut single "Crazy", which was released physically the following week. On 1 January 2007, digital downloads (including unbundled album tracks[14][15]) became eligible from the point of release, without the need for an accompanying physical.[16] Sales gradually improved in the following years, reaching a record high in 2008 that still proceeded to be overtaken in 2009, 2010 and 2011.[17]
The Gaon Album Chart tracks sales of all "offline" albums released as physical media and so single albums compete alongside full-length studio albums (LPs) and mini-albums (EPs). The Gaon Digital Chart, which tracks downloads and streams, is regarded as the official "singles" chart.
Although 7 inches remained the standard size for vinyl singles, 12-inch singles were introduced for use by DJs in discos in the 1970s. The longer playing time of these singles allowed the inclusion of extended dance mixes of tracks. In addition, the larger surface area of the 12-inch discs allowed for wider grooves (larger amplitude) and greater separation between grooves, the latter of which results in less cross-talk. Consequently, they are less susceptible to wear and scratches. The 12-inch single is still considered a standard format for dance music, though its popularity has declined in recent years.
Historically, when mainstream music was purchased via vinyl records, singles would be released double-sided, i.e. there was an A-side and a B-side, on which two songs would appear, one on each side.[2]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Single and EP Definitions on iTunes". Emubands.com. 22 April 2013. Retrieved 24 June 2016.
In some regions (e.g. US), the default hole size fitted the original RCA 1.5-inch (3.8 cm) hub which, due to a format war, was incompatible with the 0.25-inch (6.4 mm) spindle of a Columbia-system 33 1/3 RPM 12-inch LP player. In other regions (e.g. UK), the default was a small hole compatible with a multi-speed 0.25-inch spindle player, but with a "knock out" that was removed for usage on a larger hub player.
Singles have been issued in various formats, including 7-inch (18 cm), 10-inch and 12-inch discs, usually playing at 45 rpm; 10-inch shellac discs, playing at 78 rpm; maxi singles; 7-inch plastic flexi discs; cassettes; and 8 or 12 cm (3.1 or 4.7 in) CD singles. Other, less common, formats include singles on Digital Compact Cassette, DVD and Laserdisc, as well as many non-standard sizes of vinyl disc (5 in or 13 cm, 8 in or 20 cm, etc.).
^ Greil Marcus, 2005, Like a Rolling Stone, p. 145.
In South Korean music, the terminology for "albums" and "singles" is unique and includes an additional term, the single album (Korean: 싱글 음반; RR: singgeul eumban). In contemporary usage in English, the term "album" refers to an LP-length recording regardless of the medium, but in contrast, the Korean usage of "album" (Korean: 음반; RR: eumban) denotes a musical recording of any length released specifically on physical media. Although the terms "single albums" and "singles" are similar and sometimes may overlap, depending on the context, they are considered two distinct release types in South Korea. A "single album" refers to a physical release (like CD, LP or some other media) collecting one or more singles, while a "single" is only a song itself, typically a digital stream or download.
"DVD Singles Can Be Chart Success". DVD Intelligence. 17 August 2001. Archived from the original on 11 September 2016. Retrieved 10 June 2016. (subscription required)
"RIAA Adds Digital Streams To Historic Gold & Platinum Awards - RIAA"
The most common form of the vinyl single is the "45" or "7-inch". The names are derived from its play speed, 45 rpm (revolutions per minute), and the standard diameter, 7 inches (17.8 cm).
The claim made that 48-0001 by Eddy Arnold was the first 45 is evidently incorrect (even though 48-0000 has not turned up, 50-0000-Crudup, 51-0000-Meisel, and 52-0000 Goodman are out there) since all 45s were released simultaneously with the 45 player in March 1949. There was plenty of information leaked to the public about the new 45 rpm system through front-page articles in Billboard magazine on December 4, 1948, and again on January 8, 1949. RCA was trying to blunt the lead Columbia had established upon releasing their 33+1⁄3  LP system in June 1948.[8]
2Types of physical singles											Toggle Types of physical singles subsection																					2.17-inch format																											2.212-inch format
"The History of the Music Industry's First-Ever Digital Single For Sale, 20 Years After Its Release"
Despite being referred to as a single in the era of music downloads, singles can include up to as many as three tracks. The biggest digital music distributor, the iTunes Store, accepts as many as three tracks that are less than ten minutes each as a single.[1] Any more than three tracks on a musical release or thirty minutes in total running time is an extended play (EP) or, if over six tracks long, an album.
Single (Extended play (EP), 12" single, Cassette single, CD single, Maxi single)
^ Spencer Drate 45 RPM: A Visual History of the Seven-Inch Record, Princeton Architectural Press, 2002, p.9
The origins of the single are in the late 19th century, when music was distributed on phonograph cylinders that held two to four minutes' worth of audio. They were superseded by disc phonograph records, which initially also had a short duration of playing time per side. In the first two to three decades of the 20th century, almost all commercial music releases were, in effect, singles (the exceptions were usually for classical music pieces, where multiple physical storage media items were bundled together and sold as an album). Phonograph records were manufactured with a range of playback speeds (from 16 to 78 rpm) and in several sizes (including 12 inches or 30 centimetres). By about 1910, however, the 10-inch (25 cm), 78-rpm shellac disc had become the most commonly used format.
"Why Your Favorite Artist Is Releasing More Singles Than Ever"
^ "Digital streams to count for Gold and Platinum songs". USA Today. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
^ "Music Sales Slip in 2011 But Digital Singles and Albums Sell Strongly" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 January 2012. Retrieved 23 January 2020.
^ "Why Your Favorite Artist Is Releasing More Singles Than Ever". Rolling Stone. 6 May 2018. Retrieved 28 September 2019.
^ Christman, Ed (9 September 2007). "Music industry betting on 'ringle' format". Reuters. Retrieved 21 May 2008.
Osborne, Richard (2012). Vinyl: A History of the Analogue Record. Taylor & Francis. p. 139. ISBN 9781472434333. LCCN 2012021796.
^ Thompson, Dave (2002). A Music Lover's Guide to Record Collecting. San Francisco: Music Player Group (United Entertainment Media). p. 3. ISBN 0-87930-713-7. LCCN 2002016095.
One could play a large-hole record on a player with a quarter-inch spindle by inserting a single "puck" or by using a spindle adapter.
The sales of singles are recorded in record charts in most countries in a Top 40 format. The charts are often published in magazines and numerous television shows and radio programs count down the list. To be eligible for inclusion in charts, the single must meet the requirement set by the charting company that governs the playing time of the single.
^ "The History of the Music Industry's First-Ever Digital Single For Sale, 20 Years After Its Release". Billboard. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
With these factors applied to the 10-inch format, songwriters and performers increasingly tailored their output to fit the new medium. The three-minute single remained the standard into the 1960s, when the availability of microgroove recording and improved mastering techniques enabled recording artists to increase the duration of their recorded songs. The breakthrough came with Bob Dylan's "Like a Rolling Stone": although Columbia Records tried to make the record more "radio-friendly" by cutting the performance into halves and separating them between the two sides of the disc, both Dylan and his fans demanded that the full six-minute take be placed on one side and that radio stations play the song in its entirety.[3]
^ "OCC test charts reveal likely effects of rule changes". Music Week. 11 December 2006. Archived from the original on 18 September 2011. Retrieved 18 February 2010.
^ "Download Official UK Single Chart Rules - PDF" (PDF). The Official Chart Company. 2009. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 July 2011.
"The History of the Music Industry's First-Ever Digital Single For Sale, 20 Years After Its Release". Billboard. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
In September 1997, with the release of Duran Duran's "Electric Barbarella" for paid downloads, Capitol Records became the first major label to sell a digital single from a well-known artist. Previously, Geffen Records also released Aerosmith's "Head First" digitally for free.[11] In 2004, the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) introduced digital single certification due to significant sales of digital formats, with Gwen Stefani's "Hollaback Girl" becoming RIAA's first platinum digital single.[12] In 2013, RIAA incorporated on-demand streams into the digital single certification.[13]
"Beatles Singles Discography". University of Delaware. Retrieved 29 March 2019.
Carson, B. H.; Burt, A. D.; Reiskind, H. I., "A Record Changer and Record of Complementary Design", RCA Review, June 1949
A single album is distinct from a single even if it includes only one song. The single "Gotta Go" by Chungha was released on a single album titled XII, which was a one-track CD. Even though "Gotta Go" was the only song on XII, the two releases carry different titles and charted separately: XII reached No. 4 on the Gaon Album Chart, and "Gotta Go" reached No. 2 on the Gaon Digital Chart.[citation needed]
^ "RIAA Adds Digital Streams To Historic Gold & Platinum Awards - RIAA". Riaa.com. 6 May 2013. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
To give an example of the differences between full-length albums, single albums and singles, the K-pop boy band Big Bang has a full-length studio album, titled MADE, which was originally released as a series of four single albums: M, A, D and E. Two singles were included on each of those single albums; the first in the series, M, contains the singles "Loser" and "Bae Bae".[23]
"Gangsuji sing-geul-eumban chulsi-dan dugog sulog gagyeog-eun bissanpyeon" 강수지 싱글음반 출시-단 두곡 수록 가격은 비싼편
Starting in the mid-1960s, albums became a greater focus and became more important as artists created albums of uniformly high-quality and coherent themes, a trend that reached its apex in the development of the concept album. Over the 1990s and the early 2000s, the single generally received less and less attention in the United States as albums, which on compact disc had virtually identical production and distribution costs but could be sold at a higher price, became most retailers' primary method of selling music. Singles continued to be produced in the UK and Australia and survived the transition from compact disc to digital download. The decline of the physical single in the US during this time has been cited as a major marketing mistake on the part of record companies, as it eliminated an inexpensive recording format for young fans to become accustomed to purchasing music. In its place was the predominance of the album, which alienated customers by the expense of purchasing a longer format for only one or two songs of interest. That in turn encouraged interest in file sharing software on the internet like Napster for single recordings, which began to undercut the music recording market.[19]
^ Spencer Drate 45 RPM: A Visual History of the Seven-Inch Record, Princeton Architectural Press, 2002, p.10
^ Jun, Yes Yeong (7 December 1995). "Gangsuji sing-geul-eumban chulsi-dan dugog sulog gagyeog-eun bissanpyeon" 강수지 싱글음반 출시-단 두곡 수록 가격은 비싼편 [Kang Sooji Single Album Release]. JoongAng Ilbo (in Korean). Retrieved 17 January 2019.
"Big Bang, singok 'Rujeo' 'Bebe' deureoboni..seulpeun gamseong chabunhan jungdokseong" 빅뱅, 신곡 '루저'·'베베' 들어보니..슬픈 감성+차분한 중독성
As a distinct release type, the single album developed during the CD era in the 1990s. Single albums, typically including about two or three songs, were marketed as a more affordable alternative to a full-length CD album.[22] The term "single album" is sometimes used to refer to a release that would simply be called a "single" in Western contexts, such as a 7-inch 45 rpm record released before the advent of downloadable music.
"OCC test charts reveal likely effects of rule changes". Music Week. 11 December 2006. Archived from the original on 18 September 2011. Retrieved 18 February 2010.
Another development of the 2000s was the popularity of mobile phone ringtones based on pop singles. In September 2007, Sony BMG announced that it would introduce a new type of CD single, called "ringles", for the 2007 holiday season. The format included three songs by an artist, plus a ringtone accessible from the user's computer. Sony announced plans to release 50 singles in October and November, and Universal Music Group expected to release somewhere between 10 and 20 titles.[20] In a reversal of this trend, a single has been released based on a ringtone itself: the Crazy Frog ringtone, which was a cult hit in Europe in 2004, was released as a mashup with "Axel F" in June 2005 amid a massive publicity campaign and subsequently hit No. 1 on the UK chart.
^ "Beatles Singles Discography". University of Delaware. Retrieved 29 March 2019.
The lightweight and inexpensive 45 rpm discs introduced by RCA were quickly popular and in the early 1950s all major US labels had begun manufacturing seven-inch singles.[10]
The term single is sometimes regarded as a misnomer since one record usually contains two songs: the A-side and B-side. In 1982, CBS marketed one-sided singles at a lower price than two-sided singles.[21]
Knopper, Steve (2009). Appetite for Self-Destruction: The Spectacular Crash of the Record Industry. Simon and Schuster. pp. 105–7.
Up until mid-1970s, British single releases were packaged in generic paper sleeves. Limited editions containing picture sleeves sold well around that period, so the number of UK singles packaged in picture sleeves increased thereafter.[4] In 1992, cassette and CD singles surpassed 7-inch vinyls.[5]
This page was last edited on 26 February 2023, at 23:19 (UTC).
In popular music, the commercial and artistic importance of the single (as compared to the EP or album) has varied over time, technological development, and according to the audience of particular artists and genres. Singles have generally been more important to artists who sell to the youngest purchasers of music (younger teenagers and pre-teens), who tend to have more limited financial resources.[6]
Spencer Drate 45 RPM: A Visual History of the Seven-Inch Record, Princeton Architectural Press, 2002, p.9
"Digital streams to count for Gold and Platinum songs". USA Today. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Single and EP Definitions on iTunes". Emubands.com. 22 April 2013. Retrieved 24 June 2016.
^ Kim, Mi-hwa (1 May 2005). "Big Bang, singok 'Rujeo' 'Bebe' deureoboni..seulpeun gamseong chabunhan jungdokseong" 빅뱅, 신곡 '루저'·'베베' 들어보니..슬픈 감성+차분한 중독성 [Listen to Big Bang's New Songs 'Loser' and 'Bae Bae': sad, emotional, relaxing, addictive] (in Korean). MTN [ko]. Retrieved 17 January 2019.
The inherent technical limitations of the gramophone disc defined the standard format for commercial recordings in the early 20th century. The relatively crude disc-cutting techniques of the time and the thickness of the needles used on record players limited the number of grooves per inch that could be inscribed on the disc surface and a high rotation speed was necessary to achieve acceptable recording and playback fidelity. 78 rpm was chosen as the standard because of the introduction of the electrically powered synchronous turntable motor in 1925, which ran at 3,600 rpm with a 46:1 gear ratio, resulting in a rotation speed of 78.3 rpm.
Thompson, Dave (2002). A Music Lover's Guide to Record Collecting. San Francisco: Music Player Group (United Entertainment Media). p. 3. ISBN 0-87930-713-7. LCCN 2002016095.
^ a b Britt, Bruce (10 August 1989). "The 45-rpm single will soon be history". Spokesman-Review. (Los Angeles Daily News). p. C4.
Wolf, Jessica (25 May 2003). "RIAA lauds DVD singles". Archived from the original on 10 September 2016. Retrieved 10 June 2016. (subscription required)
^ Knopper, Steve (2009). Appetite for Self-Destruction: The Spectacular Crash of the Record Industry. Simon and Schuster. pp. 105–7.
"The Official UK Charts Company : Info pack from The Official UK Charts Company" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 July 2011.
Britt, Bruce (10 August 1989). "The 45-rpm single will soon be history". Spokesman-Review. (Los Angeles Daily News). p. C4.
Christman, Ed (9 September 2007). "Music industry betting on 'ringle' format". Reuters. Retrieved 21 May 2008.
"Download Official UK Single Chart Rules - PDF" (PDF). The Official Chart Company. 2009. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 July 2011.
Jun, Yes Yeong (7 December 1995). "Gangsuji sing-geul-eumban chulsi-dan dugog sulog gagyeog-eun bissanpyeon" 강수지 싱글음반 출시-단 두곡 수록 가격은 비싼편 [Kang Sooji Single Album Release]. JoongAng Ilbo (in Korean). Retrieved 17 January 2019.
"RIAA Adds Digital Streams To Historic Gold & Platinum Awards - RIAA". Riaa.com. 6 May 2013. Retrieved 2 June 2018.
^ Osborne, Richard (2012). Vinyl: A History of the Analogue Record. Taylor & Francis. p. 139. ISBN 9781472434333. LCCN 2012021796.
The 7-inch 45 rpm record was released March 31, 1949, by RCA Victor as a smaller, more durable and higher-fidelity replacement for the 78 rpm shellac discs.[6] The first 45 rpm records were monaural, with recordings on both sides of the disc. As stereo recordings became popular in the 1960s, almost all 45 rpm records were produced in stereo by the early 1970s. Columbia Records, which had released the 33+1⁄3 rpm 12-inch vinyl LP in June 1948, also released 33+1⁄3 rpm 7-inch vinyl singles in March 1949, but they were soon eclipsed by the RCA Victor 45. The first regular production 45 rpm record pressed was "PeeWee the Piccolo": RCA Victor 47-0146 pressed December 7, 1948 at the Sherman Avenue plant in Indianapolis; R.O. Price, plant manager.[7]
The Lover & the Beloved: Radio/DJ Mix (Liner notes / remix album). Donna De Lory. Ajna Music. 2004. Barcode: 01588202872.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Donna De Lory – Heaven (Remixes) – Single". iTunes Store (US). May 10, 2019. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ Steam Train - La Machine De Reve, retrieved 2022-11-23
"The Unchanging (Atom Smith Remix) – Donna De Lory – Free Internet Radio – Slacker Radio"
"Dave Stringer, Donna De Lory, Joni Allen – Elixir: Songs of the Radiance Sutras – Amazon.com Music". Amazon.com (US). February 24, 2015. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Niki Haris – All Through the Night Remixes – Single"
Wish You Were Here (feat. Donna De Lory) - Single by La Machine De Rêve
"Where I've Never Been" (Liner notes / CD single). Donna De Lory (Promotional ed.). Secret Road. 2001.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Only You Tonight" / "Only You Tonight" (Liner notes / 7" single). Donna De Lory. Calgary. 1987. CLG 0004.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Donna De Lory – Here in Heaven (Remixes and Bonus Tracks)". iTunes Store (US). July 31, 2020. Retrieved December 11, 2020.
^ Go Talk To Mary (Atom Smith Remix) [clip], retrieved 2022-11-23
^ Live & Acoustic (Liner notes / live album). Donna De Lory. Secret Road. 2002. SR002.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Donna De Lory – Be the Change (DJ Drez Remix) – Single"
^ "Donna De Lory – Heaven (Remixes) – Single". iTunes Store (US). May 10, 2019. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ Sat Siri (Binary Mix Edit) [official music video] - Donna De Lory featuring Belinda Carlisle, retrieved 2022-11-23
^ "Donna De Lory – Lover & The Beloved – Amazon.com Music". Amazon.com (US). January 31, 2004. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Universal Light Remixes (From the Unchanging) [Bonus Track Edition]". iTunes Store (US). March 5, 2015. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – My Sweet Lord – Single". iTunes Store (US). April 3, 2013. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Where I've Never Been" (Liner notes / CD single). Donna De Lory (Promotional ed.). Secret Road. 2001.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ "Luck Is an Angel" (Liner notes / mini CD single). Donna De Lory. Fun House Inc. 1989. 00GD-4002.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Donna De Lory – Diamonds in the Sun (We Shine) – Single"
"Donna De Lory – Sky Is Open". iTunes Store (US). December 17, 2008. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Dave Stringer, Donna De Lory, Joni Allen – Elixir: Songs of the Radiance Sutras – Amazon.com Music". Amazon.com (US). February 24, 2015. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Live from Kula Space". iTunes Store (US). April 14, 2016. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
Welcome to the Dream Machine (Deluxe Edition) by La Machine De Rêve, 2019-10-15, retrieved 2022-11-23
^ "Donna De Lory – Diamonds in the Sun (We Shine) – Single". iTunes Store (US). April 16, 2020. Retrieved July 30, 2020.
"Donna De Lory – Sanctuary". iTunes Store (US). March 24, 2009. Retrieved September 7, 2009.
A Sampler is an advanced sampler EP of Donna DeLory featuring three songs: "Praying for Love", "Think It Over", and "Shiny Red World".[13]
"On and On (Junior's Marathon Club Mix)" / "On and On (Junior's Twilonstrumental)" (Liner notes / 12" single). Donna De Lory. Junior Vasquez Music. 2000. JVM 003.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
Sat Siri (Binary Mix Edit) [official music video] - Donna De Lory featuring Belinda Carlisle
"Donna De Lory – Sat Siri – Single". iTunes Store (US). October 23, 2020. Retrieved December 11, 2020.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Buss, Bryan. "Donna De Lory – Donna De Lory". AllMusic. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Here in Heaven (Remixes and Bonus Tracks)"
"Donna De Lory – Lover & The Beloved – Amazon.com Music". Amazon.com (US). January 31, 2004. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Miracle of Love (Atom Smith Ambient Chill Remix) – Single"
"Donna DeLory Chart History (Dance Club Songs)". Billboard. Retrieved September 8, 2019.
Love, Bret. "Donna De Lory – Bliss". AllMusic. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ a b A Sampler (Liner notes / sampler album). Donna De Lory. MCA. 1992. MCA 5P-2363.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ The Lover & the Beloved: Radio/DJ Mix (Liner notes / remix album). Donna De Lory. Ajna Music. 2004. Barcode: 01588202872.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
Go Talk To Mary (Atom Smith Remix) [clip], retrieved 2022-11-23
^ "Niki Harris – Two Friends – EP". October 27, 2017. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – The Unchanging". iTunes Store (US). July 24, 2013. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
"Niki Haris – Rain – Single". iTunes Store (US). May 13, 2016. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – Listen Remixes – Single". iTunes Store (US). January 4, 2019. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Niki Harris – Two Friends – EP". October 27, 2017. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – In the Glow". AllMusic. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Universal Light Remixes (From the Unchanging) [Bonus Track Edition]"
^ "Only You Tonight" / "Only You Tonight" (Liner notes / 7" single). Donna De Lory. Calgary. 1987. CLG 0004.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Praying for Love (Ali Baba Extended Mix)" / "Praying for Love (Album Version)" (Liner notes / 12" single). Donna De Lory. MCA. 1992. MCA 12-54444.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ "Think It Over (Murk Boys Vocal Mix)" / "Think It Over (Donna Got Murked Mix)" (Liner notes / 12" single). Donna De Lory. MCA. 1993. MCD 30297.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ "Donna De Lory – Remixes: Donna De Lory". iTunes Store (US). November 9, 2010. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
"Just a Dream" (Liner notes / CD single). Donna De Lory. MCA. 1993. MCD 30297.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ "Official Singles Chart Top 75". Official Charts Company. Retrieved September 8, 2019.
"Donna DeLory Chart History (Dance Singles Sales)". Billboard. Retrieved September 8, 2019.
So Hum/Breathing In (Atom Smith Remix) | Official Video | Donna De Lory, retrieved 2022-11-23
"Donna De Lory – Here in Heaven". iTunes Store (US). May 11, 2018. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – Miracle of Love (Atom Smith Ambient Chill Remix) – Single". iTunes Store (US). September 6, 2019. Retrieved July 30, 2020.
Welcome to the Dream Machine (Deluxe Edition) by La Machine De Rêve
"Donna De Lory – Be the Change (DJ Drez Remix) – Single". iTunes Store (US). July 18, 2015. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Remixes: Donna De Lory". iTunes Store (US). November 9, 2010. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
^ Miracle of Love (Atom Smith Ambient Chill Remix) [clip 2 - alternate cut], retrieved 2022-11-23
"Niki Haris – All Through the Night Remixes – Single". iTunes Store (US). March 23, 2018. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Lover & The Beloved – Amazon.com Music"
^ "The Hurting (Club Vocal Mix)" / "The Hurting (Dub Mix)" (Liner notes / 12" single). Donna De Lory. Dee Vee Music. 2003. DV-0001.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ "Niki Haris – Rain – Single". iTunes Store (US). May 13, 2016. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Diamonds in the Sun (We Shine) – Single". iTunes Store (US). April 16, 2020. Retrieved July 30, 2020.
^ Open Your Heart by La Machine De Reve, retrieved 2022-11-23
Donna De Lory - "The Unchanging" (Atom Smith Remix), retrieved 2022-11-23
^ Love, Bret. "Donna De Lory – Bliss". AllMusic. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – Sat Siri – Single". iTunes Store (US). October 23, 2020. Retrieved December 11, 2020.
2Minor releases											Toggle Minor releases subsection																					2.1Extended plays																											2.2Live albums																											2.3Remix albums
^ "Just a Dream" (Liner notes / CD single). Donna De Lory. MCA. 1993. MCD 30297.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ a b "Donna DeLory Chart History (Dance Club Songs)". Billboard. Retrieved September 8, 2019.
{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Buss, Bryan. "Donna De Lory – Donna De Lory". AllMusic. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Songs '95". AllMusic. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
^ So Hum/Breathing In (Atom Smith Remix) | Official Video | Donna De Lory, retrieved 2022-11-23
A Sampler (Liner notes / sampler album). Donna De Lory. MCA. 1992. MCA 5P-2363.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ a b "Donna De Lory – Sky Is Open". iTunes Store (US). December 17, 2008. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "The Unchanging (Atom Smith Remix) – Donna De Lory – Free Internet Radio – Slacker Radio". Slacker Radio. July 18, 2014. Retrieved September 9, 2019.
^ Donna De Lory - "The Unchanging" (Atom Smith Remix), retrieved 2022-11-23
Miracle of Love (Atom Smith Ambient Chill Remix) [clip 2 - alternate cut], retrieved 2022-11-23
^ "Niki Harris – Rain Remixed – EP". October 6, 2016. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Listen Remixes – Single". iTunes Store (US). January 4, 2019. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – Sky Is Open". AllMusic. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
Miracle of Love (Atom Smith Ambient Chill Remix) [clip 2 - alternate cut]
^ "Donna De Lory – Live from Kula Space". iTunes Store (US). April 14, 2016. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
The American singer and songwriter Donna De Lory has released ten studio albums (including one with other artists), four extended plays (EPs), two live albums, four remix albums, 18 singles (including one as a featured artist), three promotional singles and seven music videos.
"Niki Harris – Rain Remixed – EP". October 6, 2016. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – The Unchanging". iTunes Store (US). July 24, 2013. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – My Sweet Lord – Single". iTunes Store (US). April 3, 2013. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"The Unchanging (Atom Smith Remix) – Donna De Lory – Free Internet Radio – Slacker Radio". Slacker Radio. July 18, 2014. Retrieved September 9, 2019.
Wish You Were Here (feat. Donna De Lory) - Single by La Machine De Rêve, 2020-04-27, retrieved 2022-11-23
^ A Living Prayer - Donna De Lory, retrieved 2022-11-23
^ "Donna De Lory – Here in Heaven (Remixes and Bonus Tracks)". iTunes Store (US). July 31, 2020. Retrieved December 11, 2020.
^ Wish You Were Here (feat. Donna De Lory) - Single by La Machine De Rêve, 2020-04-27, retrieved 2022-11-23
^ "Donna DeLory Chart History (Dance Singles Sales)". Billboard. Retrieved September 8, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – Songs '95". AllMusic. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
^ "Niki Haris – All Through the Night Remixes – Single". iTunes Store (US). March 23, 2018. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Official Singles Chart Top 75". Official Charts Company. Retrieved September 8, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – Be the Change (DJ Drez Remix) – Single". iTunes Store (US). July 18, 2015. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – Here in Heaven". iTunes Store (US). May 11, 2018. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
Open Your Heart by La Machine De Reve, retrieved 2022-11-23
"Donna De Lory – Go Talk to Mary (Atom Smith Remix) – Single". iTunes Store (US). August 2, 2019. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ "Donna De Lory – Universal Light Remixes (From the Unchanging) [Bonus Track Edition]". iTunes Store (US). March 5, 2015. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
3Singles											Toggle Singles subsection																					3.1As lead artist																											3.2As a featured artist																											3.3Promotional singles
"Luck Is an Angel" (Liner notes / mini CD single). Donna De Lory. Fun House Inc. 1989. 00GD-4002.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"The Hurting (Club Vocal Mix)" / "The Hurting (Dub Mix)" (Liner notes / 12" single). Donna De Lory. Dee Vee Music. 2003. DV-0001.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ a b "Energy" / "Eccentric" (Liner notes / 7" single). Donna. Calgary. 1984. CLG 5004.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
This page was last edited on 17 January 2023, at 11:53 (UTC).
"Think It Over (Murk Boys Vocal Mix)" / "Think It Over (Donna Got Murked Mix)" (Liner notes / 12" single). Donna De Lory. MCA. 1993. MCD 30297.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ "Praying for Love (Ali Baba Extended Mix)" / "Praying for Love (Album Version)" (Liner notes / 12" single). Donna De Lory. MCA. 1992. MCA 12-54444.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Donna De Lory – Sky Is Open". AllMusic. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
So Hum/Breathing In (Atom Smith Remix) | Official Video | Donna De Lory
Live & Acoustic (Liner notes / live album). Donna De Lory. Secret Road. 2002. SR002.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ "On and On (Junior's Marathon Club Mix)" / "On and On (Junior's Twilonstrumental)" (Liner notes / 12" single). Donna De Lory. Junior Vasquez Music. 2000. JVM 003.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
Sat Siri (Binary Mix Edit) [official music video] - Donna De Lory featuring Belinda Carlisle, retrieved 2022-11-23
"Donna De Lory – Go Talk to Mary (Atom Smith Remix) – Single"
^ "Donna De Lory – Sanctuary". iTunes Store (US). March 24, 2009. Retrieved September 7, 2009.
"Dave Stringer, Donna De Lory, Joni Allen – Elixir: Songs of the Radiance Sutras – Amazon.com Music"
^ "Donna De Lory – Go Talk to Mary (Atom Smith Remix) – Single". iTunes Store (US). August 2, 2019. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
^ Welcome to the Dream Machine (Deluxe Edition) by La Machine De Rêve, 2019-10-15, retrieved 2022-11-23
"Energy" / "Eccentric" (Liner notes / 7" single). Donna. Calgary. 1984. CLG 5004.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ A Sampler is an advanced sampler EP of Donna DeLory featuring three songs: "Praying for Love", "Think It Over", and "Shiny Red World".[13]
"Donna De Lory – In the Glow". AllMusic. Retrieved September 6, 2019.
"Donna De Lory – Miracle of Love (Atom Smith Ambient Chill Remix) – Single". iTunes Store (US). September 6, 2019. Retrieved July 30, 2020.
The 1980s advent of digital processes and formats rapidly replaced analog processes and formats, namely, tape and vinyl. Although recording onto quality tape, at least half an inch wide and traveling 15 inches per second, had limited "tape hiss" to silent sections, digital's higher signal-to-noise ratio, SNR, abolished it.[21] Digital also imparted to the music a perceived "pristine" sound quality, if also a loss of analog recordings' perceived "warm" quality and bass better rounded.[21] Yet whereas editing tape media requires physically locating the target audio on the ribbon, cutting there, and splicing pieces, editing digital media offers inarguable advantages in ease, efficiency, and possibilities.
^ "Q&A: Ariana Grande on 'Yours Truly' and Judging Miley Cyrus". Rolling Stone. 11 September 2013. Retrieved 11 September 2013.
Advances in recording technology, especially the 1940s advent of tape recording—which Les Paul promptly innovated further to develop multitrack recording[7]—and the 1950s rise of electronic instruments, turned record production into a specialty.[3] In popular music, then, producers like George Martin, Phil Spector and Brian Eno led its evolution into its present use of elaborate techniques and unrealistic sounds, creating songs impossible to originate live.[1][8] After the 1980s, production's move from analog to digital further expanded possibilities.[3] By now, DAWs, or digital audio workstations, like Logic Pro,Pro Tools and Studio One, turn an ordinary computer into a production console,[9][10] whereby a solitary novice can become a skilled producer in a thrifty home studio.[11][12] In the 2010s, efforts began to increase the prevalence of producers and engineers who are women, heavily outnumbered by men and prominently accoladed only in classical music.[11][13]
2Historical developments											Toggle Historical developments subsection																					2.1A&R team																											2.2Record producers																											2.3Tape recording																											2.4Multitrack recording																											2.5Electronic instruments																											2.6Performer-producer																											2.7Digital production																											2.8Hip hop production
The producer often selects and collaborates with a mixing engineer, who focuses on the especially technological aspects of the recording process, namely, operating the electronic equipment and blending the raw, recorded tracks of the chosen performances, whether vocal or instrumental, into a ''mix'', either stereo or surround sound. Then a mastering engineer further adjusts this recording for distribution on the chosen media. A producer may work on only one or two songs or on an artist's entire album, helping develop the album's overall vision. The record producers may also take on the role of executive producer, managing the budget, schedules, contracts, and negotiations.
^ a b c d e f g h i
In the 1880s, the record industry began by simply having the artist perform at a phonograph.[14] In 1924, the trade journal Talking Machine World, covering the phonography and record industry, reported that Eddie King, Victor Records' manager of the "New York artist and repertoire department", had planned a set of recordings in Los Angeles.[15] Later, folklorist Archie Green called this perhaps the earliest printed use of A&R man.[15] Actually, it says neither "A&R man" nor even "A&R", an initialism perhaps coined by Billboard magazine in 1946, and entering wide use in the late 1940s.[15]
In 1947, the American market gained audio recording onto magnetic tape.[17] At the record industry's 1880s dawn, rather, recording was done by phonograph, etching the sonic waveform vertically into a cylinder.[18] By the 1930s, a gramophone etched it laterally across a disc.[19] Constrained in tonal range, whether bass or treble, and in dynamic range, records made a grand, concert piano sound like a small, upright piano, and maximal duration was four and a half minutes.[14][19] Selections and performance were often altered accordingly, and playing this disc—the wax master—destroyed it.[19] The finality often caused anxiety that restrained performance to prevent error.[19] In the 1940s, during World War II, the Germans refined audio recording onto magnetic tape—uncapping recording duration and allowing immediate playback, rerecording, and editing—a technology that premised emergence of record producers in their current roles.[19]
Gibson, David and Maestro Curtis. "The Art of Producing". 1st. Ed. USA. ArtistPro Publishing, 2004. ISBN 1-931140-44-8
^ "Ariana Grande Reveals Complex Vocal Arrangements That Went Into Recording 'Positions'". Variety. Retrieved 6 April 2021.
^ a b c d Brent Hurtig with J. D. Sharp, Multi-Track Recording for Musicians: The Complete Step-by-Step Guide for Beginners and Reference for Professionals (Cupertino, CA: GPI Publications, 1988 / Van Nuys, CA: Alfred Publishing, 1988), pp 8–10.
Albin Zak III, book review: Strange Sounds: Music, Technology, and culture (Routledge, 2011), by Timothy D. Taylor, in Current Musicology, pp 159–180 [unknown year, volume, issue].
Varying by project, the producer may or may not choose all of the artists.[4][3] If employing only synthesized or sampled instrumentation, the producer may be the sole artist.[3] Conversely, some artists do their own production.[3] Some producers are their own engineers,[5] operating the technology across the project: preproduction, recording, mixing, and mastering. Record producers' precursors were "A&R men", who likewise could blend entrepreneurial, creative, and technical roles,[2] but often exercised scant creative influence,[6] as record production still focused, into the 1950s, on simply improving the record's sonic match to the artists' own live performance.[3]
^ James Petulla, "Who is a music producer?", RecordingConnection.com, Recording Connection, 21 May 2013, reporting membership in CAPPS, the California Association of Private Postsecondary Schools.
"Recording Academy Task Force On Diversity and Inclusion announces initiative to expand opportunities for female producers and engineers"
^ a b Clive Thompson, "How the phonograph changed music forever", Smithsonian Magazine, Jan 2016.
^ Matthew Allard, "Sound Devices MixPre V6.00 adds 32-bit float USB audio streaming", NewsShooter.com, Newsshooter, 15 Jan 2020, quotes Paul Isaacs, director of product management and design at the recorder manufacturer Sound Devices, who explains, "With 32-bit float, you no longer need to worry about clipping during your best vocal takes or instrument solos. Any recorded moments exceeding 0 dBFS can be reduced to an acceptable level, after recording, in your DAW".
The record producer's roles can include gathering ideas, composing music, choosing session musicians, proposing changes to song arrangements, coaching the performers, controlling sessions, supervising the audio mixing, and, in some cases, supervising the audio mastering. A producer may give creative control to the artists themselves, taking a supervisory or advisory role instead. As to qualifying for a Grammy nomination, the Recording Academy defines a producer:[2]
^ Amandine Pras, Caroline Cance &Catherine Guastavino, "Record producers' best practices for artistic direction—from light coaching to deeper collaboration with musicians", Journal of New Music Research, 2013 Dec 13;42(4):381–395.
Stacy L. Smith, Marc Choueiti, Katherine Pieper, Hannah Clark, Ariana Case & Sylvia Villanueva, "Inclusion in the recoding studio? Gender and race/ethnicity of artists, songwriters & producers across 700 popular songs from 2012–2018", Annenberg Inclusion Initiative, University of Southern California, Feb 2019.
Virgil Moorefield, "Introduction", The Producer as Composer: Shaping the Sounds of Popular Music (Cambridge, MA & London, UK: MIT Press, 2005).
Brian Ward & Patrick Huber, A&R Pioneers: Architects of American Roots Music on Record (Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University Press, 2018), p 283.
"Q&A: Ariana Grande on 'Yours Truly' and Judging Miley Cyrus"
A record producer is a recording project's creative and technical leader, commanding studio time and coaching artists, and in popular genres typically creates the song's very sound and structure.[1][2][3] The record producer, or simply the producer, is likened to film director and art director.[1][3] The executive producer, on the other hand, enables the recording project through entrepreneurship, and an audio engineer operates the technology.
"Linda Perry's Grammy nomination 'is a win for all women producers and engineers' "
^ a b Kiesha Joseph,"Audio recording software: Avid Pro Tools vs. Apple Log Pro X" Archived 11 August 2018 at the Wayback Machine, Blog.First.edu, F.I.R.S.T. Institute, 11 Feb 2016, whose webpage footer reports, "Accredited by ACCET", perhaps the Accrediting Council for Continuing Education and Training.
"Q&A: Ariana Grande on 'Yours Truly' and Judging Miley Cyrus". Rolling Stone. 11 September 2013. Retrieved 11 September 2013.
David Simmons, Analog Recording: Using Analog Gear in Today's Home Studio (San Francisco: Backbeat Books, 2006), pp 26–27.
"Record producers' best practices for artistic direction—from light coaching to deeper collaboration with musicians"
Early in the recording industry, a record was attained by simply having all of the artists perform together live in one take.[18] In 1945,[7] by recording a musical element while playing a previously recorded record, Les Paul developed a recording technique called "sound on sound".[18] By this, the final recording could be built piece by piece and tailored, effecting an editing process.[18] In one case, Paul produced a song via 500 recorded discs.[18] But, besides the tedium of this process, it serially degraded the sound quality of previously recorded elements, rerecorded as ambient sound.[18] Yet in 1948, Paul adopted tape recording, enabling truly multitrack recording by a new technique, "overdubbing".[18]
Melinda Newman, "Where are all the female music producers?", Billboard.com, MRC Media and Info, 19 Jan 2018.
Communicating and Marketing staff, "Stereotyped, sexualized and shut out: The plight of women in music", Annenberg.USC.edu, USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism, University of Southern California, 5 Feb 2019, updated 4 Mar 2019.
^ a b Jay Kadis, "Digital audio workstations", CCRMA.Stanford.edu, Center for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics, Stanford University, 2006–2013, retrieved 11 Sep 2020.
Amandine Pras, Caroline Cance &Catherine Guastavino, "Record producers' best practices for artistic direction—from light coaching to deeper collaboration with musicians", Journal of New Music Research, 2013 Dec 13;42(4):381–395.
Across the 1960s, popular music increasingly switched from acoustic instruments, like piano, upright bass, acoustic guitar, and brass instruments, to electronic instruments, like electric guitars, keyboards, and synthesizers, employing instrument amplifiers and speakers. These could mimic acoustic instruments or create utterly new sounds. Soon, by combining the capabilities of tape, multitrack recording, and electronic instruments, producers like Phil Spector, George Martin, and Joe Meek rendered sounds unattainable live.[8] Similarly, in jazz fusion, Teo Macero, producing Miles Davis's 1970 album Bitches Brew, spliced sections of extensive improvisation sessions.
Nate Hertweck, "Recording Academy Task Force On Diversity and Inclusion announces initiative to expand opportunities for female producers and engineers", Grammy.com, Recording Academy, 1 Feb 2019.
Greg Kot, "What does a record producer do?", BBC Culture, BBC.com, 10 Mar 2016.
^ a b c d Nate Hertweck, "Recording Academy Task Force On Diversity and Inclusion announces initiative to expand opportunities for female producers and engineers", Grammy.com, Recording Academy, 1 Feb 2019.
^ a b c d David Simmons, Analog Recording: Using Analog Gear in Today's Home Studio (San Francisco: Backbeat Books, 2006), pp 26–27.
This page was last edited on 16 March 2023, at 03:52 (UTC).
Single (Extended play (EP), 12" single, Cassette single, CD single, Maxi single)
In the 2000s, with the advent of technology that made traditional record production accessible, especially with hip hop beatmaking and electronic music. Within these genres, the term producer is applied to a number of roles and has popularized the use of more niche terms and credits including executive producer, co-producer, assistant producer, and additional and miscellaneous production to differentiate contributions.[25]
Olsen, Eric et al. (1999). The Encyclopedia of Record Producers. ISBN 978-0-8230-7607-9
"Triple threats: 13 female singers who write and produce their own work"
Clive Thompson, "How the phonograph changed music forever", Smithsonian Magazine, Jan 2016.
Brian Ward & Patrick Huber, A&R Pioneers: Architects of American Roots Music on Record (Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University Press, 2018), pp 20–21.
"Ariana Grande Breaks Down How She Made Her "Stuck With U" Vocals". Nylon. Retrieved 15 May 2020.
In the 1920s and 1930s, A&R executives, like Ben Selvin at Columbia Records, Nathaniel Shilkret at Victor Records, and Bob Haring at Brunswick Records became the precursors of record producers, supervising recording and often leading session orchestras.[6] During the 1940s, major record labels increasingly opened official A&R departments, whose roles included supervision of recording.[15] Meanwhile, independent recording studios opened, helping originate record producer as a specialty.[citation needed] But despite a tradition of some A&R men writing music, record production still referred to just the manufacturing of record discs.[6]
^ a b Elias Leight, "Linda Perry's Grammy nomination 'is a win for all women producers and engineers' ", RollingStone.com, Rolling Stone, LLC, 7 Dec 2018.
^ a b c d e f g h i Brian Ward & Patrick Huber, A&R Pioneers: Architects of American Roots Music on Record (Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University Press, 2018), pp 278–281.
^ Jim Curtis, Rock Eras: Interpretation of Music & Society, 1954–1984 (Bowling Green, OH: Bowling Green State University Popular Press, 1987), p 43.
"Stereotyped, sexualized and shut out: The plight of women in music"
Richard James Burgess, The History of Music Production (New York: Oxford University Press, 2013), pp 199–200.
Kiesha Joseph,"Audio recording software: Avid Pro Tools vs. Apple Log Pro X" Archived 11 August 2018 at the Wayback Machine, Blog.First.edu, F.I.R.S.T. Institute, 11 Feb 2016, whose webpage footer reports, "Accredited by ACCET", perhaps the Accrediting Council for Continuing Education and Training.
Zak, Albin. The Poetics of Rock: Cutting Tracks, Making Records. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2001.
^ a b c Richard James Burgess, The History of Music Production (New York: Oxford University Press, 2014), pp 12–13.
Gronow, Pekka and Ilpo Saunio (1998). An International History of the Recording Industry. Cited in Moorefield (2005).
^ Stacy L. Smith, Marc Choueiti, Katherine Pieper, Ariana Case, Sylvia Villanueva, Ozodi Onyeabor & Dorga Kim, "Inclusion in the recording studio? Gender and race/ethnicity of artists, songwriters & producers across 600 popular songs from 2012–2017", Annenberg Inclusion Initiative, University of Southern California, 25 Jan 2018.
Stacy L. Smith, Marc Choueiti, Katherine Pieper, Ariana Case, Sylvia Villanueva, Ozodi Onyeabor & Dorga Kim, "Inclusion in the recording studio? Gender and race/ethnicity of artists, songwriters & producers across 600 popular songs from 2012–2017", Annenberg Inclusion Initiative, University of Southern California, 25 Jan 2018.
^ a b c d Brian Ward & Patrick Huber, A&R Pioneers: Architects of American Roots Music on Record (Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University Press, 2018), pp 20–21.
^ Ian Shepherd, "What does a music producer do, anyway?", Production.Advice.co.uk, Production Advice, 26 Feb 2009.
Ian Shepherd, "What does a music producer do, anyway?", Production.Advice.co.uk, Production Advice, 26 Feb 2009.
^ Stacy L. Smith, Marc Choueiti, Katherine Pieper, Hannah Clark, Ariana Case & Sylvia Villanueva, "Inclusion in the recoding studio? Gender and race/ethnicity of artists, songwriters & producers across 700 popular songs from 2012–2018", Annenberg Inclusion Initiative, University of Southern California, Feb 2019.
^ "Ariana Grande Breaks Down How She Made Her "Stuck With U" Vocals". Nylon. Retrieved 15 May 2020.
"Sound Devices MixPre V6.00 adds 32-bit float USB audio streaming"
Richard James Burgess, The History of Music Production (New York: Oxford University Press, 2014), pp 12–13.
Elias Leight, "Linda Perry's Grammy nomination 'is a win for all women producers and engineers' ", RollingStone.com, Rolling Stone, LLC, 7 Dec 2018.
Conventionally, tape is more forgiving of overmodulation, whereby dynamic peaks exceed the maximal recordable signal level: tape's limitation, a physical property, is magnetic capacity, which tapers offs, smoothing the overmodulated waveform even at a signal nearly 15 decibels too "hot", whereas a digital recording is ruined by harsh distortion of "clipping" at any overshoot.[21] In digital recording, however, a recent advancement, 32-bit float, enables DAWs to undo clipping.[22] Still, some criticize digital instruments and workflows for excess automation, allegedly impairing creative or sonic control.[23] In any case, as production technology has drastically changed, so have the knowledge demands,[24] although DAWs enables novices, even teenagers at home, to learn production independently.[11] Some have attained professional competence before ever working with an artist.[12]
Hewitt, Michael. Music Theory for Computer Musicians. 1st Ed. USA. Cengage Learning, 2008. ISBN 1598635034
"Inclusion in the recording studio? Gender and race/ethnicity of artists, songwriters & producers across 600 popular songs from 2012–2017"
^ a b c d e f Melinda Newman, "Where are all the female music producers?", Billboard.com, MRC Media and Info, 19 Jan 2018.
^ a b c d e f g h Allan Watson, Cultural Production in and Beyond the Recording Studio (New York: Routledge, 2015), pp 25–27.
Music in American Life: An Encyclopedia of the Songs, Styles, Stars, and Stories that Shaped our Culture
Brent Hurtig with J. D. Sharp, Multi-Track Recording for Musicians: The Complete Step-by-Step Guide for Beginners and Reference for Professionals (Cupertino, CA: GPI Publications, 1988 / Van Nuys, CA: Alfred Publishing, 1988), pp 8–10.
Jay Kadis, "Digital audio workstations", CCRMA.Stanford.edu, Center for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics, Stanford University, 2006–2013, retrieved 11 Sep 2020.
^ Brian Ward & Patrick Huber, A&R Pioneers: Architects of American Roots Music on Record (Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University Press, 2018), p 283.
"Ariana Grande Breaks Down How She Made Her "Stuck With U" Vocals"
"Ariana Grande Reveals Complex Vocal Arrangements That Went Into Recording 'Positions'". Variety. Retrieved 6 April 2021.
As a broad project, the creation of a music recording may be split across three specialists: the executive producer, who oversees business partnerships and financing, the vocal producer or vocal arranger, who aids vocal performance via expert critique and coaching of vocal technique, and the record producer or music producer, who, often called simply the producer, directs the overall creative process of recording the song in its final mix.
Among female record producers, Sylvia Moy was the first at Motown, Gail Davies the first on Nashville's Music Row, and Ethel Gabriel, with RCA, the first at a major record label. Lillian McMurry, owning Trumpet Records, produced influential blues records. Meanwhile, Wilma Cozart Fine produced hundreds of records for Mercury Records' classical division. For classical production, three women have won Grammy awards, and Judith Sherman's 2015 win was her fifth.[12] Yet in nonclassical, no woman has won Producer of the Year, awarded since 1975 and only one even nominated for a record not her own, Linda Perry.[26] After Lauren Christy's 2004 nomination, Linda Perry's 2019 nomination was the next for a woman.[26] On why no woman had ever won it, Perry commented, "I just don't think there are that many women interested."[12]
Matthew Allard, "Sound Devices MixPre V6.00 adds 32-bit float USB audio streaming", NewsShooter.com, Newsshooter, 15 Jan 2020, quotes Paul Isaacs, director of product management and design at the recorder manufacturer Sound Devices, who explains, "With 32-bit float, you no longer need to worry about clipping during your best vocal takes or instrument solos. Any recorded moments exceeding 0 dBFS can be reduced to an acceptable level, after recording, in your DAW".
Edmondson, Jacqueline, ed. (2013). Music in American Life: An Encyclopedia of the Songs, Styles, Stars, and Stories that Shaped our Culture. ABC-CLIO. ISBN 978-0-313-39348-8.
^ Faculty webpage, "Stacy Smith", Annenberg.USC.edu, University of Southern California, retrieved 11 Sep 2020.
^ a b c Virgil Moorefield, "Introduction", The Producer as Composer: Shaping the Sounds of Popular Music (Cambridge, MA & London, UK: MIT Press, 2005).
Richard James Burgess, The History of Music Production (New York: Oxford University Press, 2014), pp 50–54.
The person who has overall creative and technical control of the entire recording project, and the individual recording sessions that are part of that project. He or she is present in the recording studio or at the location recording and works directly with the artist and engineer. The producer makes creative and aesthetic decisions that realize both the artist's and label's goals in the creation of musical content. Other duties include, but are not limited to; keeping budgets and schedules, adhering to deadlines, hiring musicians, singers, studios and engineers, overseeing other staffing needs and editing (Classical projects).
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"What Exactly Does "Producer" Mean, Anyway?". Soundfly. 6 October 2015. Retrieved 3 June 2021.
Women producers known for producing records not their own include Sonia Pottinger, Sylvia Robinson and Carla Olson.
Brian Ward & Patrick Huber, A&R Pioneers: Architects of American Roots Music on Record (Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University Press, 2018), pp 278–281.
^ a b c d e f g Richard James Burgess, The History of Music Production (New York: Oxford University Press, 2014), pp 50–54.
"Audio recording software: Avid Pro Tools vs. Apple Log Pro X"
Chris Casetti, "Triple threats: 13 female singers who write and produce their own work" Archived 20 September 2018 at the Wayback Machine, VH1 News, VH1.com, Viacom International Inc., 21 Mar 2017.
"Inclusion in the recoding studio? Gender and race/ethnicity of artists, songwriters & producers across 700 popular songs from 2012–2018"
^ a b c d e Robert Philip, "Pianists on record in the early twentieth century", in David Rowland, ed., The Cambridge Companion to the Piano (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998), pp 75–77.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"What Exactly Does "Producer" Mean, Anyway?". Soundfly. 6 October 2015. Retrieved 3 June 2021.
^ a b c d e f g Richard James Burgess, The History of Music Production (New York: Oxford University Press, 2013), pp 199–200.
In the 1990s, digital production reached affordable home computers via production software. By now, recording and mixing are often centralized in DAWs, digital audio workstations—for example, Pro Tools, Logic Pro, Ableton, Cubase, Reason, and FL Studio—for which plugins, by third parties, effect virtual studio technology.[9] DAWs fairly standard in the industry are Logic Pro and Pro Tools.[10] Physical devices involved include the main mixer, MIDI controllers to communicate among equipment, the recording device itself, and perhaps effects gear that is outboard. Yet literal recording is sometimes still analog, onto tape, whereupon the raw recording is converted to a digital signal for processing and editing, as some producers still find audio advantages to recording onto tape.[21]
During the decade, A&R executives increasingly directed songs' sonic signatures, although many still simply teamed singers with musicians, while yet others exercised virtually no creative influence.[6] The term record producer in its current meaning—the creative director of song production—appearing in a 1953 issue of Billboard magazine, became widespread in the 1960s.[6] Still, a formal distinction was elusive for some time more.[6] A&R managers might still be creative directors, like William "Mickey" Stevenson, hired by Berry Gordy, at the Motown record label.[16]
Robert Philip, "Pianists on record in the early twentieth century", in David Rowland, ed., The Cambridge Companion to the Piano (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998), pp 75–77.
Faculty webpage, "Stacy Smith", Annenberg.USC.edu, University of Southern California, retrieved 11 Sep 2020.
Jim Curtis, Rock Eras: Interpretation of Music & Society, 1954–1984 (Bowling Green, OH: Bowling Green State University Popular Press, 1987), p 43.
Burgess, Richard James. The Art of Music Production. 4th Ed. UK. Music Sales, 2005. ISBN 1-84449-431-4
^ Albin Zak III, book review: Strange Sounds: Music, Technology, and culture (Routledge, 2011), by Timothy D. Taylor, in Current Musicology, pp 159–180 [unknown year, volume, issue].
To enable overdubbing, Paul revised the tape recorder itself by adding a second playback head, and terming it the preview head.[7] Joining the preexisting recording head, erase head, and playback head, the preview head allows the artist to hear the extant recording over headphones playing it in synchrony, "in sync", with the present performance being recorded alone on an isolated track.[7] This isolation of multiple tracks enables countless mixing possibilities. Producers began recording initially only the "bed tracks"—the rhythm section, including the bassline, drums, and rhythm guitar—whereas vocals and instrument solos could be added later. A horn section, for example, could record a week later, and a string section another week later. A singer could perform her own backup vocals, or a guitarist could play 15 layers.
After World War II, pioneering A&R managers who transitioned influentially to record production as now understood, while sometimes owning independent labels, include J. Mayo Williams and John Hammond.[6] Upon moving from Columbia Records to Mercury Records, Hammond appointed Mitch Miller to lead Mercury's popular recordings in New York.[6] Miller then produced country-pop crossover hits by Patti Page and by Frankie Laine, moved from Mercury to Columbia, and became a leading A&R man of the 1950s.[6]
Across the decades, many female artists have produced their own music. For instance, artists Kate Bush, Madonna, Mariah Carey, Janet Jackson, Beyoncé, Lana Del Rey, Taylor Swift, and Lorde have produced or coproduced[11][27] and Ariana Grande who produces and arranges her vocals as well as being an audio engineer.[28][29][30] Still among specialists, despite some prominent women, including Missy Elliott in hip hop and Sylvia Massy in rock, the vast majority have been men.[11] Early in the 2010s, asked for insights that she herself had gleaned as a woman who has specialized successfully in the industry, Wendy Page remarked, "The difficulties are usually very short-lived. Once people realize that you can do your job, sexism tends to lower its ugly head."[11] Still, when tasked to explain her profession's sex disparity, Page partly reasoned that record labels, dominated by men, have been, she said, "mistrustful of giving a woman the reins of an immense, creative project like making a record."[11] Ultimately, the reasons are multiple and not fully clear, although prominently proposed factors include types of sexism and scarcity of female role models in the profession.[12]
^ Reportedly self-produced entirely are the Rolling Stones' Decca recordings
"Ariana Grande Reveals Complex Vocal Arrangements That Went Into Recording 'Positions'"
^ a b Communicating and Marketing staff, "Stereotyped, sexualized and shut out: The plight of women in music", Annenberg.USC.edu, USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism, University of Southern California, 5 Feb 2019, updated 4 Mar 2019.
^ Chris Casetti, "Triple threats: 13 female singers who write and produce their own work" Archived 20 September 2018 at the Wayback Machine, VH1 News, VH1.com, Viacom International Inc., 21 Mar 2017.
Allan Watson, Cultural Production in and Beyond the Recording Studio (New York: Routledge, 2015), pp 25–27.
James Petulla, "Who is a music producer?", RecordingConnection.com, Recording Connection, 21 May 2013, reporting membership in CAPPS, the California Association of Private Postsecondary Schools.
Moorefield, Virgil (2005). The Producer as Composer: Shaping the Sounds of Popular Music.
^ a b Greg Kot, "What does a record producer do?", BBC Culture, BBC.com, 10 Mar 2016.
^ The Lover & the Beloved (Liner notes). Donna De Lory. Argentina: Natural Way. 2005. 4142.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ The Lover & the Beloved (Liner notes). Donna De Lory. Ajna Music. 2004. AMCD270.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
^ "Donna De Lory – The Lover & the Beloved". AllMusic. Retrieved September 10, 2019.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Donna De Lory – Lover & The Beloved – Amazon.com Music". Amazon.com (US). January 31, 2004. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
This page was last edited on 24 January 2021, at 04:37 (UTC).
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Donna De Lory – Lover & The Beloved – Amazon.com Music". Amazon.com (US). January 31, 2004. Retrieved September 7, 2019.
{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Donna De Lory – The Lover & the Beloved". AllMusic. Retrieved September 10, 2019.
The Lover & the Beloved (Liner notes). Donna De Lory. Ajna Music. 2004. AMCD270.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
The Lover & the Beloved (Liner notes). Donna De Lory. Argentina: Natural Way. 2005. 4142.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
"Donna De Lory – Lover & The Beloved – Amazon.com Music"
The Lover & the Beloved is the fifth studio album by American singer and songwriter Donna de Lory, released on January 31, 2004 by Ajna Music.[1] The project contains six mantras composed by De Lory and producer Dave Dale. De Lory's interpretation of "Govinda Jaya Jaya" originally appeared on her fourth studio album, In the Glow (2003).
^ Furdyk, Brent (19 July 2019). "Tinashe Reveals She 'Fired' Her Team, Alleges Former Record Label 'Sabotaged' Her". ET Canada. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Leeds, Jeff (11 November 2007). "The New Deal: Band as Brand". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331.
Zafar, Aylin (13 May 2013). "What It's Like When A Label Won't Release Your Album". BuzzFeed. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ du Lac, J. Freedom (26 June 2007). "'My December': Kelly Clarkson, Striking Out On Her Own". Washington Post. ISSN 0190-8286. Retrieved 3 September 2021.
Park, Andrea (25 February 2016). "Musicians v. record labels: 14 famous feuds". CBS News. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ "Trent Reznor on Nine Inch Nails' Columbia Signing: 'I'm Not a Major Label Apologist'". Spin. 19 August 2013. Retrieved 29 April 2016.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ "Behind the music: When artists are held hostage by labels". The Guardian. 15 April 2010.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Why Is Megan Thee Stallion Suing Her Record Label?". Pitchfork. 6 March 2020. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Butler, Susan (31 March 2007). "Publisher = Label?". Billboard. p. 22.{{cite magazine}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
This page was last edited on 18 March 2023, at 12:46 (UTC).
"Copyright Law, Treaties and Advice". Copynot.org. Archived from the original on 19 June 2013. Retrieved 14 November 2013.
PolyGram was merged into Universal Music Group (UMG) in 1999, leaving the rest to be known as the Big Five.
^ Covert, Adrian (25 April 2013). "A decade of iTunes singles killed the music industry". CNN Business. Retrieved 29 April 2016.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Lockett, Dee; Gordon, Amanda; Zhan, Jennifer (23 April 2021). "The Complete History of Kesha's Fight Against Dr. Luke". Vulture. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ "Nine inch nails = independent". Sputnikmusic. 8 October 2007. Retrieved 29 April 2016.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Independent Music is now a growing force in the global market". Association of Independent Music. 1 February 2014. Archived from the original on 23 February 2019. Retrieved 20 March 2019.
Cole, Tom (24 November 2010). "You Ask, We Answer: What Exactly Is A 360 Deal?". NPR.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Some independent labels become successful enough that major record companies negotiate contracts to either distribute music for the label or in some cases, purchase the label completely, to the point where it functions as an imprint or sublabel.
^ a b "JoJo Spent Nearly a Decade Fighting Her Label and Won. Here's What She Learned, in Her Own Words". Vulture. 2 November 2015. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Behind the music: When artists are held hostage by labels"
8New label strategies											Toggle New label strategies subsection																					8.1Internet and digital labels																											8.2Open-source labels																											8.3Publishers as labels																											8.4Crowdfunded labels
"Tinashe's Studio Session Tale Shows How Ruthless The Music Business Is". UPROXX. 9 January 2017. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Cole, Tom (24 November 2010). "You Ask, We Answer: What Exactly Is A 360 Deal?". NPR.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Cowen, Trace William (11 February 2019). "Lupe Fiasco Blasts Atlantic and Lyor Cohen, Calls Music Biz 'Damn Near a Mob Cartel'". Complex. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"'I had no confidence, no money': the pop stars kept in limbo by major labels"
On occasion, established artists, once their record contract has finished, move to an independent label. This often gives the combined advantage of name recognition and more control over one's music along with a larger portion of royalty profits. Artists such as Dolly Parton, Aimee Mann, Prince, Public Enemy, among others, have done this. Historically, companies started in this manner have been re-absorbed into the major labels (two examples are American singer Frank Sinatra's Reprise Records, which has been owned by Warner Music Group for some time now, and musician Herb Alpert's A&M Records, now owned by Universal Music Group). Similarly, Madonna's Maverick Records (started by Madonna with her manager and another partner) was to come under control of Warner Music when Madonna divested herself of controlling shares in the company.
^ "After Years of Record-Label Limbo, Michelle Branch Can Tell You That She's Happy Now". Paste Magazine. 23 March 2017. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Adegoke, Yinka (11 October 2007). "Madonna move shows music industry's 360-model". Reuters.
"Tinashe Reveals She 'Fired' Her Team, Alleges Former Record Label 'Sabotaged' Her"
Suhr, Cecilia (November 2011). "Understanding the Hegemonic Struggle between Mainstream Vs. Independent Forces: The Music Industry and Musicians in the Age of Social Media". International Journal of Technology, Knowledge & Society. 7 (6): 123–136. doi:10.18848/1832-3669/CGP/v07i06/56248.
^ McDonald, Heather (20 November 2019). "5 Lessons Big Record Labels Learned From Independents". The Balance.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Trent Reznor on Nine Inch Nails' Columbia Signing: 'I'm Not a Major Label Apologist'"
Halperin, Shirley (16 November 2020). "Scooter Braun Sells Taylor Swift's Big Machine Masters for Big Payday". Variety. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Vanity labels are labels that bear an imprint that gives the impression of an artist's ownership or control, but in fact represent a standard artist/label relationship. In such an arrangement, the artist will control nothing more than the usage of the name on the label, but may enjoy a greater say in the packaging of their work. An example of such a label is the Neutron label owned by ABC while at Phonogram Inc. in the UK. At one point artist Lizzie Tear (under contract with ABC themselves) appeared on the imprint, but it was devoted almost entirely to ABC's offerings and is still used for their re-releases (though Phonogram owns the masters of all the work issued on the label).
Newman, Melinda (28 April 2016). "Inside Prince's Career-Long Battle to Master His Artistic Destiny". Billboard. Retrieved 3 April 2017.{{cite magazine}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Jobs, Steve (6 February 2007). "Thoughts on Music". Apple. Archived from the original on 3 January 2009.
A label typically enters into an exclusive recording contract with an artist to market the artist's recordings in return for royalties on the selling price of the recordings. Contracts may extend over short or long durations, and may or may not refer to specific recordings. Established, successful artists tend to be able to renegotiate their contracts to get terms more favorable to them, but Prince's much-publicized 1994–1996 feud with Warner Bros. Records provides a strong counterexample,[9] as does Roger McGuinn's claim, made in July 2000 before a US Senate committee, that the Byrds never received any of the royalties they had been promised for their biggest hits, "Mr. Tambourine Man" and "Turn! Turn!, Turn!".[10]
"JoJo Spent Nearly a Decade Fighting Her Label and Won. Here's What She Learned, in Her Own Words"
Moreau, Jordan (8 August 2020). "Madonna Is a Free Agent After Decade-Long Deal With Interscope Records". Variety.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Lockett, Dee; Gordon, Amanda; Zhan, Jennifer (23 April 2021). "The Complete History of Kesha's Fight Against Dr. Luke". Vulture. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Kanye West Says Universal Music Group Refuses To Tell Him Cost of Masters"
In other instances, record labels have shelved artists' albums with no intention of any promotion for the artist in question.[13][14] Reasons for shelving can include the label deciding to focus its resources on other artists on its roster,[12] or the label undergoing a restructure where the person that signed the artist and supports the artist's vision is no longer present to advocate for the artist.[12][15] In extreme cases, record labels can prevent the release of an artist's music for years, while also declining to release the artist from their contract, leaving the artist in a state of limbo.[15][16] Artists who have had disputes with their labels over ownership and control of their music have included Taylor Swift,[17] Tinashe,[18] Megan Thee Stallion,[19] Kelly Clarkson,[20] Thirty Seconds to Mars,[21] Clipse,[22] Ciara,[23] JoJo,[16] Michelle Branch,[24] Kesha,[25] Kanye West,[26] Lupe Fiasco,[27] Paul McCartney,[28] and Johnny Cash.[29]
"The Rise And Fall Of Major Record Labels". www.arkatechbeatz.com. Retrieved 5 May 2021.
Jobs, Steve (6 February 2007). "Thoughts on Music". Apple. Archived from the original on 3 January 2009.
^ "Copyright Law, Treaties and Advice". Copynot.org. Archived from the original on 19 June 2013. Retrieved 14 November 2013.
Crosley, Hillary (29 October 2007). "The Clipse ends tumultuous tenure at Jive". Reuters. Retrieved 3 September 2021.
^ Boone, Brian (13 January 2020). "Musicians That Were Forced To Change Their Album Covers". Grunge.com. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"What's it like for musicians whose labels won't release their music?"
Computers and internet technology led to an increase in file sharing and direct-to-fan digital distribution, causing music sales to plummet in recent years.[35] Labels and organizations have had to change their strategies and the way they work with artists. New types of deals called "multiple rights" or "360" deals are being made with artists,[36][37] where labels are given rights and percentages to artist's touring, merchandising, and endorsements. In exchange for these rights, labels usually give higher advance payments to artists, have more patience with artist development, and pay higher percentages of CD sales. These 360 deals are most effective when the artist is established and has a loyal fan base. For that reason, labels now have to be more relaxed with the development of artists because longevity is the key to these types of pact. Several artists such as Paramore,[38] Maino, and even Madonna[39][40] have signed such types of deals.
Boone, Brian (13 January 2020). "Musicians That Were Forced To Change Their Album Covers". Grunge.com. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"CNN Transcript – Special Event: Lars Ulrich, Roger McGuinn Testify Before Senate Judiciary Committee on Downloading Music on the Internet". CNN. 11 July 2000. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 29 April 2016.
The relationship between record labels and artists can be a difficult one. Many artists have had conflicts with their labels over the type of sound or songs they want to make, which can result in the artist's artwork or titles being changed before release.[11] Other artists have had their music prevented from release, or shelved.[12] Record labels generally do this because they believe that the album will sell better if the artist complies with the label's desired requests or changes. At times, the record label's decisions are prudent ones from a commercial perspective, but these decisions may frustrate artists who feel that their art is being diminished or misrepresented by such actions.
"Nine inch nails = independent". Sputnikmusic. 8 October 2007. Retrieved 29 April 2016.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Butler, Susan (31 March 2007). "Publisher = Label?". Billboard. p. 22.{{cite magazine}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Single (Extended play (EP), 12" single, Cassette single, CD single, Maxi single)
"Independent Music is now a growing force in the global market"
Hudson, John (18 May 2010). "Paul McCartney vs. EMI". The Atlantic. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
In 2012, the major divisions of EMI were sold off separately by owner Citigroup: most of EMI's recorded music division was absorbed into UMG; EMI Music Publishing was absorbed into Sony/ATV Music Publishing; finally, EMI's Parlophone and Virgin Classics labels were absorbed into Warner Music Group (WMG) in July 2013.[6] This left the so-called Big Three labels.
However, not all labels dedicated to particular artists are completely superficial in origin. Many artists, early in their careers, create their own labels which are later bought out by a bigger company. If this is the case it can sometimes give the artist greater freedom than if they were signed directly to the big label. There are many examples of this kind of label, such as Nothing Records, owned by Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails; and Morning Records, owned by the Cooper Temple Clause, who were releasing EPs for years before the company was bought by RCA.
^ Hudson, John (18 May 2010). "Paul McCartney vs. EMI". The Atlantic. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
McDonald, Heather (20 November 2019). "5 Lessons Big Record Labels Learned From Independents". The Balance.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ "Independent Music is now a growing force in the global market". Association of Independent Music. 1 February 2014. Archived from the original on 23 February 2019. Retrieved 20 March 2019.
Music collectors often use the term sublabel to refer to either an imprint or a subordinate label company (such as those within a group). For example, in the 1980s and 1990s, 4th & B'way Records (pronounced as "Broadway") was a trademarked brand owned by Island Records Ltd. in the UK and by a subordinate branch, Island Records, Inc., in the United States. The center label on a 4th & Broadway record marketed in the United States would typically bear a 4th & B'way logo and would state in the fine print, "4th & B'way™, an Island Records, Inc. company". Collectors discussing labels as brands would say that 4th & B'way is a sublabel or imprint of just "Island" or "Island Records". Similarly, collectors who choose to treat corporations and trademarks as equivalent might say 4th & B'way is an imprint and/or sublabel of both Island Records, Ltd. and that company's sublabel, Island Records, Inc. However, such definitions are complicated by the corporate mergers that occurred in 1989 (when Island was sold to PolyGram) and 1998 (when PolyGram merged with Universal). PolyGram held sublabels including Mercury, Island and Motown.[8] Island remained registered as corporations in both the United States and UK, but control of its brands changed hands multiple times as new companies were formed, diminishing the corporation's distinction as the "parent" of any sublabels.
"CNN Transcript – Special Event: Lars Ulrich, Roger McGuinn Testify Before Senate Judiciary Committee on Downloading Music on the Internet"
^ Kreps, Daniel (18 August 2008). "Virgin/EMI Sue 30 Seconds to Mars for $30 Million, Leto Fights Back". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on 4 September 2018. Retrieved 3 September 2021.
^ Rosen, Jody (11 June 2019). "The Day the Music Burned". The New York Times. Retrieved 22 November 2022.
^ "CNN Transcript – Special Event: Lars Ulrich, Roger McGuinn Testify Before Senate Judiciary Committee on Downloading Music on the Internet". CNN. 11 July 2000. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 29 April 2016.
^ Jones, Rhian (11 August 2021). "'I had no confidence, no money': the pop stars kept in limbo by major labels". The Guardian. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Behind the music: When artists are held hostage by labels". The Guardian. 15 April 2010.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"What It's Like When A Label Won't Release Your Album"
Mergers of Majors: Applying the Failing Firm Doctrine in the Recorded Music Industry
Within the mainstream music industry, recording artists have traditionally been reliant upon record labels to broaden their consumer base, market their albums, and promote their singles on streaming services, radio, and television. Record labels also provide publicists, who assist performers in gaining positive media coverage, and arrange for their merchandise to be available via stores and other media outlets.
"JoJo Spent Nearly a Decade Fighting Her Label and Won. Here's What She Learned, in Her Own Words". Vulture. 2 November 2015. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Ciara: 'I pray my label will release me'". The Guardian. 16 February 2011. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
In the early days of the recording industry, recording labels were absolutely necessary for the success of any artist.[30] The first goal of any new artist or band was to get signed to a contract as soon as possible. In the 1940s, 1950s, and 1960s, many artists were so desperate to sign a contract with a record company that they sometimes ended up signing agreements in which they sold the rights to their recordings to the record label in perpetuity. Entertainment lawyers are usually employed by artists to discuss contract terms.
In 2020 and 2021, both WMG and UMG had their IPO with WMG started trading at Nasdaq and UMG started trading at Euronext Amsterdam and leaving only Sony Music as wholly-owned subsidiary of an international conglomerate (Sony Entertainment which in turn owned by Sony Group Corporation).
Independent labels are often considered more artist-friendly. Though they may have less financial clout, indie labels typically offer larger artist royalty with a 50% profit-share agreement, aka 50–50 deal, not uncommon.[7] In addition, independent labels are often artist-owned (although not always), with a stated intent often being to control the quality of the artist's output. Independent labels usually do not enjoy the resources available to the "big three" and as such will often lag behind them in market shares. However, frequently independent artists manage a return by recording for a much smaller production cost of a typical big label release. Sometimes they are able to recoup their initial advance even with much lower sales numbers.
^ "The Rise And Fall Of Major Record Labels". www.arkatechbeatz.com. Retrieved 5 May 2021.
In 2004, Sony and BMG agreed to a joint venture and merged their recorded music division to create the Sony BMG label (which would be renamed Sony Music Entertainment after a 2008 merger); BMG kept its music publishing division separate from Sony BMG and later sold BMG Music Publishing to UMG. In 2007, the four remaining companies—known as the Big Four—controlled about 70% of the world music market, and about 80% of the United States music market.[4][5]
"You Ask, We Answer: What Exactly Is A 360 Deal?"
^ a b "What's it like for musicians whose labels won't release their music?". Dazed. 7 July 2021. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Arditi, David (2014). "iTunes: Breaking Barriers and Building Walls" (PDF). Popular Music & Society. 37 (4): 408–424. doi:10.1080/03007766.2013.810849. hdl:10106/27052. S2CID 191563044.
Arditi, David (2014). "iTunes: Breaking Barriers and Building Walls" (PDF). Popular Music & Society. 37 (4): 408–424. doi:10.1080/03007766.2013.810849. hdl:10106/27052. S2CID 191563044.
^ Bielas, Ilan (2013). "The Rise and Fall of Record Labels". CMC Senior Theses (703). Retrieved 3 September 2021.
Covert, Adrian (25 April 2013). "A decade of iTunes singles killed the music industry". CNN Business. Retrieved 29 April 2016.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"label (n.)". Online Etymological Dictionary. Douglas Harper. Retrieved 12 July 2021.
^ Park, Andrea (25 February 2016). "Musicians v. record labels: 14 famous feuds". CBS News. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Bielas, Ilan (2013). "The Rise and Fall of Record Labels". CMC Senior Theses (703). Retrieved 3 September 2021.
Kreps, Daniel (18 August 2008). "Virgin/EMI Sue 30 Seconds to Mars for $30 Million, Leto Fights Back". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on 4 September 2018. Retrieved 3 September 2021.
"After Years of Record-Label Limbo, Michelle Branch Can Tell You That She's Happy Now"
^ Suhr, Cecilia (November 2011). "Understanding the Hegemonic Struggle between Mainstream Vs. Independent Forces: The Music Industry and Musicians in the Age of Social Media". International Journal of Technology, Knowledge & Society. 7 (6): 123–136. doi:10.18848/1832-3669/CGP/v07i06/56248.
^ Cowen, Trace William (11 February 2019). "Lupe Fiasco Blasts Atlantic and Lyor Cohen, Calls Music Biz 'Damn Near a Mob Cartel'". Complex. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Crosley, Hillary (29 October 2007). "The Clipse ends tumultuous tenure at Jive". Reuters. Retrieved 3 September 2021.
A record label, or record company, is a brand or trademark of music recordings and music videos, or the company that owns it. Sometimes, a record label is also a publishing company that manages such brands and trademarks, coordinates the production, manufacture, distribution, marketing, promotion, and enforcement of copyright for sound recordings and music videos, while also conducting talent scouting and development of new artists, and maintaining contracts with recording artists and their managers. The term "record label" derives from the circular label in the center of a vinyl record which prominently displays the manufacturer's name, along with other information.[1]
Jones, Jiggy (16 September 2020). "Kanye West Says Universal Music Group Refuses To Tell Him Cost of Masters". The Source. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Radiohead sign 'conventional' record deal". NME. 31 October 2007. Retrieved 29 April 2016.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Record labels may be small, localized and "independent" ("indie"), or they may be part of a large international media group, or somewhere in between. The Association of Independent Music (AIM) defines a 'major' as "a multinational company which (together with the companies in its group) has more than 5% of the world market(s) for the sale of records or music videos." As of 2012[update], there are only three labels that can be referred to as "major labels": Universal Music Group, Sony Music Entertainment, and Warner Music Group. In 2014, AIM estimated that the majors had a collective global market share of some 65–70%.[2]
^ Halperin, Shirley (16 November 2020). "Scooter Braun Sells Taylor Swift's Big Machine Masters for Big Payday". Variety. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Tinashe's Studio Session Tale Shows How Ruthless The Music Business Is"
"Virgin/EMI Sue 30 Seconds to Mars for $30 Million, Leto Fights Back"
^ Jones, Jiggy (16 September 2020). "Kanye West Says Universal Music Group Refuses To Tell Him Cost of Masters". The Source. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Lupe Fiasco Blasts Atlantic and Lyor Cohen, Calls Music Biz 'Damn Near a Mob Cartel'"
du Lac, J. Freedom (26 June 2007). "'My December': Kelly Clarkson, Striking Out On Her Own". Washington Post. ISSN 0190-8286. Retrieved 3 September 2021.
^ a b Leeds, Jeff (11 November 2007). "The New Deal: Band as Brand". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331.
A label used as a trademark or brand and not a company is called an imprint, a term used for the same concept in publishing. An imprint is sometimes marketed as being a "project", "unit", or "division" of a record label, even though there is no legal business structure associated with the imprint. A record company may use an imprint to market a particular genre of music, such as jazz, blues, country music, or indie rock.
Record labels and music publishers that are not under the control of the big three are generally considered to be independent (indie), even if they are large corporations with complex structures. The term indie label is sometimes used to refer to only those independent labels that adhere to independent criteria of corporate structure and size, and some consider an indie label to be almost any label that releases non-mainstream music, regardless of its corporate structure.
Furdyk, Brent (19 July 2019). "Tinashe Reveals She 'Fired' Her Team, Alleges Former Record Label 'Sabotaged' Her". ET Canada. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Jones, Rhian (11 August 2021). "'I had no confidence, no money': the pop stars kept in limbo by major labels". The Guardian. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
A look at an actual 360 deal offered by Atlantic Records to an artist shows a variation of the structure. Atlantic's document offers a conventional cash advance to sign the artist, who would receive a royalty for sales after expenses were recouped. With the release of the artist's first album, however, the label has an option to pay an additional $200,000 in exchange for 30 percent of the net income from all touring, merchandise, endorsements, and fan-club fees. Atlantic would also have the right to approve the act's tour schedule, and the salaries of certain tour and merchandise sales employees hired by the artist. In addition, the label also offers the artist a 30 percent cut of the label's album profits—if any—which represents an improvement from the typical industry royalty of 15 percent.[38]
Adegoke, Yinka (11 October 2007). "Madonna move shows music industry's 360-model". Reuters.
Record labels are often under the control of a corporate umbrella organization called a "music group". A music group is usually affiliated to an international conglomerate "holding company", which often has non-music divisions as well. A music group controls and consists of music-publishing companies, record (sound recording) manufacturers, record distributors, and record labels. Record companies (manufacturers, distributors, and labels) may also constitute a "record group" which is, in turn, controlled by a music group. The constituent companies in a music group or record group are sometimes marketed as being "divisions" of the group.
^ "Ciara: 'I pray my label will release me'". The Guardian. 16 February 2011. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Scooter Braun Sells Taylor Swift's Big Machine Masters for Big Payday"
"Trent Reznor on Nine Inch Nails' Columbia Signing: 'I'm Not a Major Label Apologist'". Spin. 19 August 2013. Retrieved 29 April 2016.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ "Why Is Megan Thee Stallion Suing Her Record Label?". Pitchfork. 6 March 2020. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"After Years of Record-Label Limbo, Michelle Branch Can Tell You That She's Happy Now". Paste Magazine. 23 March 2017. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
"Madonna Is a Free Agent After Decade-Long Deal With Interscope Records"
A contract either provides for the artist to deliver completed recordings to the label, or for the label to undertake the recording with the artist. For artists without a recording history, the label is often involved in selecting producers, recording studios, additional musicians, and songs to be recorded, and may supervise the output of recording sessions. For established artists, a label is usually less involved in the recording process.
^ Newman, Melinda (28 April 2016). "Inside Prince's Career-Long Battle to Master His Artistic Destiny". Billboard. Retrieved 3 April 2017.{{cite magazine}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Due to advancing technology such as the Internet, the role of labels is rapidly changing, as artists are able to freely distribute their own material through online radio, peer-to-peer file sharing such as BitTorrent, and other services, at little to no cost, but with correspondingly low financial returns. Established artists, such as Nine Inch Nails, whose career was developed with major label backing, announced an end to their major label contracts, citing that the uncooperative nature of the recording industry with these new trends is hurting musicians, fans and the industry as a whole.[31] However, Nine Inch Nails later returned to working with a major label,[32] admitting that they needed the international marketing and promotional reach that a major label can provide. Radiohead also cited similar motives with the end of their contract with EMI when their album In Rainbows was released as a "pay what you want" sales model as an online download, but they also returned to a label for a conventional release.[33] Research shows that record labels still control most access to distribution.[34]
^ a b c Zafar, Aylin (13 May 2013). "What It's Like When A Label Won't Release Your Album". BuzzFeed. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
From 1929 to 1998, there were six major record labels, known as the Big Six:[3]
^ "Radiohead sign 'conventional' record deal". NME. 31 October 2007. Retrieved 29 April 2016.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
The new century brought the phenomenon of open-source or open-content record labels. These are inspired by the free software and open source movements and the success of Linux.
In 2002, ArtistShare was founded as the Internet's first record label where the releases were directly funded by the artist's fans.
^ Joshua R. Wueller, Mergers of Majors: Applying the Failing Firm Doctrine in the Recorded Music Industry, 7 Brook. J. Corp. Fin. & Com. L. 589, 601–04 (2013).
^ Moreau, Jordan (8 August 2020). "Madonna Is a Free Agent After Decade-Long Deal With Interscope Records". Variety.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
In the mid-2000s, some music publishing companies began undertaking the work traditionally done by labels. The publisher Sony/ATV Music, for example, leveraged its connections within the Sony family to produce, record, distribute, and promote Elliott Yamin's debut album under a dormant Sony-owned imprint, rather than waiting for a deal with a proper label.[42]
^ "Tinashe's Studio Session Tale Shows How Ruthless The Music Business Is". UPROXX. 9 January 2017. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Joshua R. Wueller, Mergers of Majors: Applying the Failing Firm Doctrine in the Recorded Music Industry, 7 Brook. J. Corp. Fin. & Com. L. 589, 601–04 (2013).
Rosen, Jody (11 June 2019). "The Day the Music Burned". The New York Times. Retrieved 22 November 2022.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"label (n.)". Online Etymological Dictionary. Douglas Harper. Retrieved 12 July 2021.
"What's it like for musicians whose labels won't release their music?". Dazed. 7 July 2021. Retrieved 3 September 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Stevie Lange, Madonna, "Angel Voices" Boys Choir, Danny Peck, Nikki Harris: Vocal Backing
Danny Bordeaux, Morris Michael, Bruce Gaitsch, Dann Huff, Tim Pierce: Guitars
Donna DeLory is the debut album by American singer and songwriter Donna de Lory, released in 1992 by MCA Records. Three singles were released from the album: "Praying for Love," "Just a Dream," and "Think It Over." The second single charted in the United Kingdom and became a top ten hit in the United States on the Dance Club Songs chart.[1]
This page was last edited on 20 August 2022, at 08:07 (UTC).
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Roberts, David (2006). British Hit Singles & Albums (19th ed.). London: Guinness World Records Limited. p. 144. ISBN 1-904994-10-5.
^ Buss, Bryan. "Donna De Lory – Donna De Lory". AllMusic. Retrieved December 3, 2017.
^ Donna de Lory (Liner notes). Donna de Lory. MCA. 1992. MCAD-10637.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
Donna de Lory (Liner notes). Donna de Lory. MCA. 1992. MCAD-10637.{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Roberts, David (2006). British Hit Singles & Albums (19th ed.). London: Guinness World Records Limited. p. 144. ISBN 1-904994-10-5.
{{cite AV media notes}}:CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)
Buss, Bryan. "Donna De Lory – Donna De Lory". AllMusic. Retrieved December 3, 2017.
