We’ve detected that JavaScript is disabled in this browser. Please enable JavaScript or switch to a supported browser to continue using twitter.com. You can see a list of supported browsers in our Help Center.
Something went wrong, but don’t fret — let’s give it another shot.

Services												Last Mile									 Next Day													 Ship from Store													 Micro Fulfilment								First Mile									 Collections & Returns													 Business Shipping								Local Courier									 Same Day														Sectors									 Food, Drink & Flowers													 Carrier													 Local Authority													 Retail & Ecommerce													 Medical & Healthcare													 Local Business													 Specialist Business Services
Our data-driven technology platform creates efficiency in everything we do; we consolidate packages headed for the same areas and deliver by cargo bike.
Our cargo bikes are low impact and produce no NOx or CO2 emissions which is better for the environment, helping you meet your sustainability goals with ecofriendly deliveries.
Our innovative model is driven by smart technology so you can book and manage your sustainable deliveries from one platform.
We are a Living Wage employer. All our staff share the benefits of a fair wage which contributes to job satisfaction and excellent service.
We use light electric vehicles such as cargo bikes, which help to cut congestion and create quieter, safer streets and more liveable cities.
Our hyper local, sustainable deliveries mean we can offer flexible delivery windows. Our Living Wage-employed riders were recently rated 100% 4 to 5 stars by our customers.
Zedify is the trading name of a group of zero emission urban logistics businesses that operate under a licence or franchise of Outspoken Logistics Ltd, registered in England & Wales number 9493049. VAT no: 281983856
Our sustainable delivery service enhances your brand and delights your customers. We’re here to transform urban logistics and create healthier, cleaner and more liveable cities that are better for everyone.
