On the one, a plain massive band which matched the collar; on the other, a serpent; the tail reached nearly to the elbow, and the head rose a little from the wrist; the tongue of a ruby, the eyes of large brilliants.
Borrowed from French brillant (late 17th century), present participle of the verb briller, from Italian brillare, possibly from Latin berillus, beryllus (“a beryl, gem, eyeglass”), from Ancient Greek βήρυλλος (bḗrullos, “beryl”).
Mandarin: (please verify) 英明的, (please verify) 英明的 (yīng míng de)
This page was last edited on 11 February 2023, at 09:45.
(Britain) Of surpassing excellence.The actor's performance in the play was simply brilliant.
1892 October 14,A[rthur] Conan Doyle,“The Adventure of a Case of Identity”, inThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, London: George Newnes, […], OCLC 4551407, page 57:
1717, Alexander Pope, The Basset-TableThis snuffbox — on the hinge see brilliants shine.
brilliant in The Century Dictionary, New York, N.Y.: The Century Co., 1911
Mandarin: (please verify) 明亮的, (please verify) 明亮的 (míng liàng de)
(surpassing excellence): excellent, distinctive, striking, superb (obsolete except in UK usage)
Mirjejev, V. A.; Usejinov, S. M. (2002) Ukrajinsʹko-krymsʹkotatarsʹkyj slovnyk [Ukrainian – Crimean Tatar Dictionary]‎[1], Simferopol: Dolya, →ISBN
1834,L[etitia] E[lizabeth] L[andon],Francesca Carrara. […], volume I, London: Richard Bentley, […], (successor to Henry Colburn), OCLC 630079698, page 257:On the one, a plain massive band which matched the collar; on the other, a serpent; the tail reached nearly to the elbow, and the head rose a little from the wrist; the tongue of a ruby, the eyes of large brilliants.
(of a colour) Both bright and saturated.butterflies with brilliant blue wings
Mandarin: (please verify) 光明 (zh) (guāngmíng), (please verify) 燦爛／灿烂 (zh) (cànlàn), (please verify) 灿烂 (zh) (chán làn)
Italian: brillante (it), splendente (it), luccicante (it), sgargiante (it), lucente (it)
A finely cut gemstone, especially a diamond, cut in a particular form with numerous facets so as to maximize light return through the top (called "table") of the stone.1717, Alexander Pope, The Basset-TableThis snuffbox — on the hinge see brilliants shine.1834,L[etitia] E[lizabeth] L[andon],Francesca Carrara. […], volume I, London: Richard Bentley, […], (successor to Henry Colburn), OCLC 630079698, page 257:On the one, a plain massive band which matched the collar; on the other, a serpent; the tail reached nearly to the elbow, and the head rose a little from the wrist; the tongue of a ruby, the eyes of large brilliants.1892 October 14,A[rthur] Conan Doyle,“The Adventure of a Case of Identity”, inThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, London: George Newnes, […], OCLC 4551407, page 57:"And the ring?" I asked, glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger.
(magnificent or wonderful): exceptional, glorious, magnificent, marvellous/marvelous, splendid, wonderful (obsolete except in UK usage)
"And the ring?" I asked, glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger.
of a voice or sound: having a sharp, clear tone
1834,L[etitia] E[lizabeth] L[andon],Francesca Carrara. […], volume I, London: Richard Bentley, […], (successor to Henry Colburn), OCLC 630079698, page 257:
Mandarin: (please verify) 輝煌的／辉煌的, (please verify) 辉煌的 (huī huáng de)
(of a voice or sound) Having a sharp, clear tone.
(uncountable, printing, dated) The size of type between excelsior and diamond, standardized as 4-point.
1892 October 14,A[rthur] Conan Doyle,“The Adventure of a Case of Identity”, inThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, London: George Newnes, […], OCLC 4551407, page 57:"And the ring?" I asked, glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger.
Italian: brillante (it) m, gemma (it) f, pietra preziosa f
(of a voice or sound: having a sharp, clear tone):
Russian: блестя́щий (ru) (blestjáščij), сверка́ющий (ru) (sverkájuščij), я́ркий (ru) (járkij)
1 English1.1 Etymology1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Adjective1.3.1 Synonyms1.3.2 Related terms1.3.3 Translations1.4 Noun1.4.1 Descendants1.4.2 Translations1.5 Further reading
brilliant in Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, G. & C. Merriam, 1913
Persian: لیان‎ (fa) (liyán), درخشان‎ (fa) (deraxšán), تابان‎ (fa) (tábán)
United States page most frequent word is clearly “state” (534 total, 358 which are not in references area) not “war” (71 total, 55 above references area).
15 Great Map, Geography, City & Travel Adult Coloring Books
On the North Korea page, ‘South’ appears most often, whereas for South Korea ‘North’ appears most often.
Morocco’s is ‘Sahara’ and Western Sahara’s is ‘Moroc’ (Morocco in French)
The United States most common word is ‘War’ (along with Spain’s)
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Most countries of the former Soviet Union have ‘Soviet’ as their most common word.
The most common word in on the UK page is ‘Ireland’ but the most common word on the Ireland page is ‘State’.
The Wikipedia Revolution: How a Bunch of Nobodies Created the World’s Greatest Encyclopedia
To learn more about Wikipedia have a look at the following books:
How Much of Humanity is on Your Side of World?
Jacques says						April 19, 2019 at 3:29 pm										Morocco’s is ‘Sahara’ and Western Sahara’s is ‘Maroc’ (Morocco in French), not ‘Moroc’😉				Reply
Jack Freel says						August 28, 2020 at 9:21 pm										Jus shows wikipedias left wing bias against America, trying to make Americans look like war-mongers, while ignoring China’s “DYNASTY” word. (Could be ming, Han, etc, or could reflect their nefarious dream of world conquest Imo).				Reply
Find something interesting on the map? Then leave it in the comments section below:
Note, that this excludes: “Country”, linking words, demonyms and “government”.
‘World’ is the most common word across Europe and is likely due to World War One and Two.
Bukkiah says						November 1, 2019 at 7:34 pm										United States page most frequent word is clearly “state” (534 total, 358 which are not in references area) not “war” (71 total, 55 above references area).Methodology is insufficiently explained (or out of date with current content perhaps).Also words like “postwar” are counted in my count (if you just search for war, then “award” etc would come up)				Reply																	Jack Freel says						August 28, 2020 at 9:21 pm										Jus shows wikipedias left wing bias against America, trying to make Americans look like war-mongers, while ignoring China’s “DYNASTY” word. (Could be ming, Han, etc, or could reflect their nefarious dream of world conquest Imo).				Reply
Etch A Sketch World Map: One Line, One Map, One World
You Could Look It Up: The Reference Shelf From Ancient Babylon to Wikipedia
Jus shows wikipedias left wing bias against America, trying to make Americans look like war-mongers, while ignoring China’s “DYNASTY” word. (Could be ming, Han, etc, or could reflect their nefarious dream of world conquest Imo).
Morocco’s is ‘Sahara’ and Western Sahara’s is ‘Maroc’ (Morocco in French), not ‘Moroc’😉
The map above shows which word appears most often on each country’s English language Wikipedia page. For example, on the Wikipedia page about Canada, the word ‘Quebec’ appears more often than any other.
Making Sense Of The World, One Map At A Time
Every country I checked was wrong. That unfortunately casts a lot of doubt on the veracity of all your maps.
Most island countries have ‘Island’ as the most recurring word.
Methodology is insufficiently explained (or out of date with current content perhaps).Also words like “postwar” are counted in my count (if you just search for war, then “award” etc would come up)
Brian Coffey says						April 17, 2020 at 4:07 pm										Every country I checked was wrong. That unfortunately casts a lot of doubt on the veracity of all your maps.				Reply
Engaging perspective - The topic is introduced in a way that explains why a person should be interested.
The page also contains a number of examples showing how to apply the gamma function.
Brilliant wiki pages are written for people who are curious about math, science, or engineering, by people who know a lot about a topic. They are a way to share knowledge and satisfy your curiosity.
Interactivity - The page contains quizzes and problems for the reader to try, to see if they understand the concepts and techniques in the wiki.
There are many different ways to get started. Here is a simple process of writing a great new wiki page, that is applicable to numerous pages.
The remaining sentences in the first paragraph should build understanding in a way that motivates the topic.
“The gamma function is defined for all complex numbers except the nonpositive integers. It is also useful in analytic contexts, and is used heavily in identities and proofs.”
“The gamma function is defined by a convergent improper integral for complex numbers with a positive real part. It is defined for all complex numbers, except for non positive integers. Using a technique to extend the domain of an analytic function, known as analytic continuation, the convergent improper integral for complex numbers can be extended to all complex numbers (except for non-positive integers). It yields the meromorphic function referred to as the gamma function.”
Brainstorm 10 key concepts and examples that are relevant to your topic
Cite a complicated series of facts without motivating those facts, or relating those facts to their function:
Offer perspective on what makes facts significant and interesting. For instance, on the gamma functions page, after the first sentence containing the definition, Brilliant says:
Each section should explain topics by showing them to the reader – e.g., how they work, what they do, examples – rather than listing a series of facts.
Brilliant wiki pages should aspire to be pages about math, science, and engineering that people love to read. An important way to accomplish this is to show rather than tell.
Brilliant wiki pages are written at the reading and comprehension level of an advanced high school student. They are not meant to comprehensively teach you a topic from scratch, but to assume some prior knowledge and act as a resource of practical and interesting examples.
A Brilliant wiki page has abrief overview of a topic, followed by tons of relevant examples and practical applications. It should also have the following attributes:
Visual appeal - The page is well-organized, easy to read, and integrates helpful images, GIFs, and videos.
Great wiki pages that are a pleasure to read take time and iteration. These are key elements that editors look for in the structure of every page:
The first sentence of the page should define what the topic is.
Illuminating examples - Key concepts are illustrated through examples that build intuition and quickly convey a practical knowledge of how to solve common problems.
The page should be well-organized into sections and have a table of contents.
This page contains guidelines for writing a great wiki page. For many, writing a wiki page is a rewarding creative process. What you create has the potential to help other mathematicians, scientists, and engineers around the world. For help with Markdown and LaTeX syntax for wiki formatting, see the page on Wiki Formatting.
