If theProportional AgreementsOratory invention has been adopted, countries in a larger power's Sphere of Influence - those that areguaranteed and own less than12 territories - will occasionally offer to become a feudatory of their protector.
Each subject has asubject loyalty value towards its overlord, visible in the diplomacy screen. This value modifies how much tribute is actually sent to the overlord and whether or not they will support and join rebellions and civil wars against the overlord.
Feudatories providemanpower to their overlord and are expected to take part in their wars. As the only subject type that can be called to war but does not cost adiplomatic relations slot, feudatories are one of the strongest subject types and building a large network of feudatories can substantially increase a nation's strength, but this is limited as feudatories can normally only be made of countries in the same culture group. Historical examples are the Roman Socii, the Punic cities of North Africa underCarthage, or the city leagues in Aegean under the Antigonids.
This article has been verified for the current version (2.0) of the game.
Requirements: These conditions must be true in order to diplomatically request making another country a subject of this type, or enforcing this subject type in a war. Note that this only applies when creating a subject; a pre-existing subject that fails to meet the requirements for its type will not become independent or (in general) convert to another subject type.
Each kind of subject state is different, but there are general guidelines all subject states must follow.
Subject loyalty is a value between 0 and 100, where 100 signifies total loyalty.
2 Subject nation types2.1 Tributary2.2 Feudatory2.3 Tribal vassal2.4 Client state2.5 Satrapy2.6 Colony2.7 Mercenary state2.8 League city
Subject nations, or vassals, are countries in a subservient relationship to another state, paying tribute or fulfilling commercial or military obligations to their overlord in return for protection from other states. They are restricted in their diplomatic actions, especially with countries other than their overlord, and certain subject types can be integrated directly into their overlord.
Subject has access toPersian traditions and more than 40 territories
Waging war and defeating a country will allow forforcing vassalization of existing states in a peace deal. A country can be vassalized if itscapital is occupied in a war, with a smallerwarscore cost and halvedaggressive expansion compared to directly annexing the country. Defeated countries can be forced into any subject type that they and their future overlord fulfill the potential for, with all subject types being equivalent in terms of warscore cost and aggressive expansion gain. Like all other peace deal demands, forcing vassalization is not possible if the warscore cost exceeds 100, e.g. if the realm is currently too large. Both independent nations and countries that are already subjects of another country can be subjugated this way.
Tributaries with very highloyalty may instead approach their overlord to pursue a closer relationship and become a client state. This event can only trigger once per country.
A subject can always leave a subject relationship by declaringwar on their overlord. They cannot declare war on any other country.
Join wars: Whether a subject of this type is automatically called into the overlord's wars, if it is loyal.
Overlord'scapital civilization value is higher than in the subject's capital
One of the following is true:Is or started asSyracusaeHas adopted theSatellite StatusOratory invention
Client states are in some ways more tightly integrated with their overlord, but unlike the feudatories they are not necessarily of the same culture group and they do not enjoy a privileged status in the same way, paying a large part of theirincome instead of providingmanpower. A client king is separated from a governor mostly by his level of autonomy and having local ties to the ruled country. Client states can be created by subjugating existing countries like most other subject types, converted from loyal tributaries through an occasional event, or released from the country's currently owned provinces in theNation Overview.
+0.10/+0.20/+0.30/+0.50 depending on the tier forgreat wonders with theDiplomatic Expansion effect
Tribal vassals will be automatically converted into tributaries upon reforming from a tribe to a republic or monarchy through the [ROOT.GetCountry.GetName] and the [SCOPE.sCountry('overlord_country').GetAdjective] Treaty event. As tribal vassals have a bonus tomaximum civilization value and growth, this will typically not take as long as tribes would normally reform.
League cities can only be created by releasing an ownedcity through theCreate League City territory action at the cost of50 political power, available to any country that has adopted theColoniaeCivic invention.
Overlords will always be called towar and become the war leader if one of their subjects are attacked.
A league city is a city that has been granted substantial autonomy and, like colonies,have a loose, largely mercantile relationship with their overlord. League cities are generally focused on trade and production, with powerful bonuses tocapital import routes and especiallyslaves needed for surplus trade good production. This can make them useful as a trade partner to import excess goods from the mother country, as well as producing surpluses of valuable trade goods that can then be exported to the overlord.
As with most mechanics, there are also certain country-specific events and mission tasks that can convert subjects between different types.
Subjects always havemilitary access to the territory of other subjects of the same overlord.
Starting integration requires that the vassal has at least190 opinion with its overlord. The cost of integration is equal to its 0.75 times itspopulation and is always at least 10. Integration progresses by a base of +0.25 each month and is affected by theintegration speed modifier, some of the more important sources of which are listed below:
An overlord can release any of its subjects at any time, as long as there is not atruce. Breaking the relationship does not give atruce, and so the former subject can be attacked immediately once the diplomat has returned.
All subject typespay some sort of resource to their overlord, with the exact type and amount depending on the subject type.
Perhaps the most basic subject type in the game is the tributary. This is a loose relationship where the subject is simply looking for protection in exchange for tribute. Unlike most other subject types, the subject can at any time cancel a tributary relationship if there is notruce, with the only risk being that the former overlord will get acasus belli for the slight on their honor. This will happen for AI-controlled countries if there any of the following conditions are met:
Since the conquest of the Achaemenid Empire almost all the old Persian satrapies are now ruled by Macedonians, with satrapies at the start date includingBactria,Parthia, andArachosia under theSeleukid Empire andCappadocia under theAntigonid Kingdom;Sardis and Phrygia can also be released as satrapies ofThrace if theAntigonid Kingdom collapses. TheHellenistic Empire can also establish a number of its own unique satrapies through the associated Hellenistic Empire mission tree.
Has less than50 loyalty, owns more than3 territories, and borders the overlord
TheRelease Subject action in the Administration tab of theNation overview screen allows a country to release a new client state out of any non-capital province, if there arediplomatic relation slots available. This country will be dynamically created and take on the name, culture, and religion of its capital territory.TheCreate Mercenary State territory action in the Tactical tab, available toSyracusae and countries that have adopted theSatellite StatusOratory invention, instead allows releasing a mercenary state out of any non-capital city, if there arediplomatic relation slots available. This is the only way in general to create new mercenary state subjects, and requires theMagna Graecia DLC.TheCreate League City territory action in the Tactical tab, available to countries that have adopted theColoniaeCivic invention, instead allows releasing a league city out of any non-capital city. This is the only way to create new league city subjects, and requires the Heirs of Alexander DLC.
A mercenary state is a particular type of client state that has been created by granting control of a city to a mercenary company, much like the historical 20px Mamertine Republic. As well as fighting alongside their overlord, each mercenary state will alsoreduce the overlord's costs when hiring other mercenary companies, and if the overlord is a monarchy with theMercenary Contract Law enacted, the overlord can use the Elect New Leader Character Interaction to replace their current leader with that of the mercenary state at the cost of somestability, much like Agathokles himself once did.
TheCreate League City territory action in the Tactical tab, available to countries that have adopted theColoniaeCivic invention, instead allows releasing a league city out of any non-capital city. This is the only way to create new league city subjects, and requires the Heirs of Alexander DLC.
Many events and especially missions also offer opportunities to get new subjects, both from releasing new countries out of currently owned territory (such as the many colonies and feudatories available in the Carthaginian mission trees) or from vassalizing existing countries (such as in the Italic League mission/event chain of the Roman mission tree). This is the only way to create new colonies.
Break: Whether the subject can break the relationship through a diplomatic action (i.e. without a war).
A tribal vassal is a tribal kingdom, chiefdom or federation that has a close relationship to a nearby stronger civilized state. For the tribal state, this means a significantly easier route towards civilizing, as it will increase both the countrywide level ofcivilization and the growth of it in all their territories. The tribal state in turn pays with itsmanpower to the overlord who, will also promise to protect them. Historical subjects of this type would be the Numidian kingdoms subject toCarthage and various Roman clients on the later imperial border. When a vassal tribe adopts a civilized form of government, it will become a tributary.
When a country becomes a subject, all their treaties with other countries are broken.Use this property to your advantage by diplomatically forcing your target's allies to become your subjects before declaring war.
A disloyal subject will never accept an offensive call to arms, and will not act in a defensive war except to defend its own territories.
Use this property to your advantage by diplomatically forcing your target's allies to become your subjects before declaring war.
Limit exports: Whether the subject is limited to only being able to export to its overlord (imports are not affected).
Subject loyalty has a base of +10 and is determined by the total of theloyalty of subject states modifier of the overlord and theloyalty to overlord modifier of the subject. These are affected by many factors, with the most important being the subject'sopinion of the overlord, therelative size of its army, and the currentaggressive expansion of the overlord.Laws, diplomatic stances, national ideas,inventions,military traditions,wonders, and many event/mission modifiers can also affect subject loyalty.
Mercenary states can generally only be created by releasing an ownedcity through theCreate Mercenary State territory action at the cost of50 political power, available from the start of the game toSyracusae (representing the rich mercenary-using traditions of the Siceliotes) or to any country that has adopted theSatellite StatusOratory invention. The 20px Mamertine Republic, when released, will also be a mercenary state.
Tributaries can request closer relations with their overlord and offer to become a client state through the [SCOPE.sCountry('tributary_more').GetAdjective] Gratitude event, which requires that the tributary to not have atruce with the overlord, not be atwar, and to have at least60 loyalty, and can only trigger once per country. As client states can be called to war and integrated this can be highly beneficial to the overlord if it is seeking to expand in the area and has enoughrelationship slots, and means that it is possible to eventually integrate tributaries (and tribal vassals) as long as they can be made loyal enough to make the client state request.
A feudatory is a state that has obligated itself to follow the lead of a larger and more influential country in the same culture group. Historically these are countries that would often have been part of some sort of league with their overlord’s other subjects, in many ways this is a privileged subject type, if one with large obligations.
Effects: Modifiers given to the subject and overlord, if any. If an overlord has multiple subjects of the same (or different) type, the modifiers will stack.
TheCreate Mercenary State territory action in the Tactical tab, available toSyracusae and countries that have adopted theSatellite StatusOratory invention, instead allows releasing a mercenary state out of any non-capital city, if there arediplomatic relation slots available. This is the only way in general to create new mercenary state subjects, and requires theMagna Graecia DLC.
The subject type of a particular vassal is typically fixed, but can be changed under certain circumstances.
If the overlord and its subject state are both involved in the same war, the overlord can always transfer occupation to and from any of their subject states and can annex territory on their behalf for half of theaggressive expansion (compared to if the overlord was annexing the territory directly).
The overlord and subject will always havemilitary access to each other's territory.
If a pretender that the country has supported using theSupport Pretender interaction wins acivil war, they can be forced to become a client king if their country is a lower rank than their sponsor.
This page was last edited on 15 July 2021, at 14:38.
If a subject's loyalty drops below 33, it will become disloyal, with the following effects:
The type of a subject can also be changed indirectly by first releasing it and then diplomatically re-vassalizing or forcibly subjugating in awar, but this is still subject to the requirements of each subject type (i.e. cannot be used to get new colonies or mercenary states) and can take a few years given the need to wait for theto expire. It is mostly useful for converting a tributary into a client state, if it is too difficult to increase its loyalty.
Only the more closely associated subject types - as a rule, those that can be called to war - can beintegrated, including feudatories, satrapies and client states. Other subject types, including tributaries and tribal vassals, cannot be integrated or annexed without first breaking or changing the existing subject relationship.
There are many ways to acquire new subjects over the course of the game:
Dip. slot: Whether a subject of this type counts as a diplomatic relation towards the overlord's diplomatic relations limit.
For subjects which can be called into war, if their loyalty is too low, they can refuse to join their overlord's war.
Payment: The subject makes this payment to the overlord on a monthly basis.
Colonies typically represent subjects descended from the mother nation and have a loose, largely mercantile relationship with their overlord. Like tributaries, they neither provide manpower nor can be called into wars, but importantly each colony also provides a boost to thecommerce income of the overlord that usually far outstrips their direct tribute, and so can be highly advantageous to establish. Colonies can mostly only be created through certain tasks in the Carthaginian mission trees, though it is also possible forAthens to become a colony of theAntigonid Kingdom if it finishes the loyalist path of its unique Athens in Chains national mission tree.
Integration can take anywhere from a few months for a small city state to many decades (or more) for a large, populous client state. In some situations, it may even be faster to fabricateclaims on a subject, then release it anddeclare war to annex its territory, at the cost of losing all trade routes.
If a country has theProportional AgreementsOratory invention, small countries (with less than12 territories) that areguaranteed may occasionally request feudatory status, which can be an important method of diplomatic expansion.
Other than for trade and allowingmilitary access, a subject can never enter into diplomatic agreements with other countries.
If acivil war happens and a subject is disloyal, it will join the revolting side.
Satrapies are a special type of subject that is only available if the junior party has access to thePersian traditions military tradition tree. The fundamental unit of organization in Persia since the time of the 20pxMedian and Achaemenid empires, a satrap is in some ways similar to a governor but is expected to have greater authority, bigger obligations, and a more imposing realm somewhat comparable to a client state. As having powerful satraps is an expectation in the east a few of them will also help with maintaining thelegitimacy for their overlord kingdoms. Satrapies are notoriously independent minded and troublesome, however, and events will periodically require interactions to keep satraps happy.
A more diplomatically inclined nation can offer vassalization through various diplomatic influence actions. This requires that the potential conditions are met and that the target country have at least100 opinion of the potential overlord, but is generally unlikely to be accepted unless the target is much weaker than, and has a very high opinion of the potential overlord. Targets are more likely to accept becoming certain subject types (such as tribal vassal or tributary status) over others (including feudatory and client status).
Countries can use the Demand Subject Transfer diplomatic action to peacefully take existing subject states of other nations if they are disloyal, and the target has at least 80 opinion of their potential new overlord. As with offering vassalization, military strength and the target's opinion of their potential new overlord are important.
If you still have problems, try contacting us and we'll do what we can to help you. Click here to get back to where you came from.
The file could not be found for a number of reasons such as the file being moved or deleted. Please check your spelling and if you still can't get to the right page try heading to the homepage for a look around.
FootballScottish PremiershipScottish ChampionshipScottish CupPremier Sports CupScotland Football TeamTransfer NewsEnglish Premier LeagueExpand
NewsLatest NewsScottish NewsUK & World NewsPoliticsCrimeHealthReal LifeBusiness & ConsumerWeird NewsScience & TechnologyNews By AreaExpand

