Unable to focus with one's eyes on near objects; presbyopic.Synonyms: hyperopic, long-sightedAntonyms: myopic, nearsighted, short-sighted
Considering the future with respect to one's own plans or deeds; showing anticipation.Synonyms: long-sighted, foresighted, sagacious
This page was last edited on 17 January 2023, at 02:01.
Farsightedness (hyperopia) is a common vision condition in which you can see distant objects clearly, but objects nearby may be blurry.
NEW – The Essential Diabetes Book - Mayo Clinic PressNEW – The Essential Diabetes Book
If your cornea or lens isn't evenly and smoothly curved, light rays aren't refracted properly, and you have a refractive error.
Mayo Clinic on Hearing and Balance - Mayo Clinic PressMayo Clinic on Hearing and Balance
A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
The lens is a clear structure about the size and shape of an M&M's candy.
Before first grade and every two years during school years, at well-child visits, or through school or public screenings
Bower KS. Laser refractive surgery. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. Accessed March 5, 2018.
If you wear glasses or contacts or you have a health condition that affects the eyes, such as diabetes, you'll likely need to have your eyes checked regularly. Ask your eye doctor how frequently you need to schedule your appointments. But, if you notice problems with your vision, schedule an appointment with your eye doctor as soon as possible, even if you've recently had an eye exam. Blurred vision, for example, may suggest you need a prescription change, or it could be a sign of another problem.
Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission.
Every two to four years between ages 40 and 54
Care of the patient with hyperopia. American Optometric Association. http://www.aoa.org/documents/CPG-16.pdf. Accessed March 17, 2015.
Mayo Clinic on Hearing and Balance - Mayo Clinic Press
ResearchResearchResearch FacultyLaboratoriesCore FacilitiesCenters & ProgramsDepartments & DivisionsClinical TrialsInstitutional Review BoardPostdoctoral FellowshipsTraining Grant Programs
In a normally shaped eye, each of these focusing elements has a perfectly smooth curvature, like the surface of a marble. A cornea and lens with such curvature bend (refract) all incoming light to make a sharply focused image directly on the retina, at the back of your eye.
FREE Mayo Clinic Diet Assessment - Mayo Clinic PressFREE Mayo Clinic Diet Assessment
AskMayoExpert. Contact lenses. Rochester, Minn.: Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; 2017.
The eye is a complex and compact structure measuring about 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) in diameter. It receives millions of pieces of information about the outside world, which are quickly processed by the brain.
Recommended eye examination frequency for pediatric patients and adults. American Optometric Association. https://www.aoa.org/patients-and-public/caring-for-your-vision/comprehensive-eye-and-vision-examination/recommended-examination-frequency-for-pediatric-patients-and-adults. Accessed March 5, 2018.
If your degree of farsightedness is pronounced enough that you can't perform a task as well as you wish, or if your quality of vision detracts from your enjoyment of activities, see an eye doctor. He or she can determine the degree of your farsightedness and advise you of options to correct your vision.
Farsightedness usually is present at birth and tends to run in families. You can easily correct this condition with eyeglasses or contact lenses. Another treatment option is surgery.
Overview of refractive error. Merck Manual Professional Version. http://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/eye_disorders/refractive_error/overview_of_refractive_error.html?qt=refractive error&alt=sh. Accessed March 17, 2015.
Financial burden. The cost of corrective lenses, eye exams and medical treatments can add up, especially with a chronic condition such as farsightedness.
Frequency of ocular examinations — 2015. American Academy of Ophthalmology. https://www.aao.org/clinical-statement/frequency-of-ocular-examinations. Accessed March 5, 2018.
Nearsightedness (myopia). Nearsightedness usually occurs when your eyeball is longer than normal or your cornea is curved too steeply. Instead of being focused precisely on your retina, light is focused in front of your retina, resulting in a blurry appearance for distant objects.
Reduced quality of life. With uncorrected farsightedness, you might not be able to perform a task as well as you wish. And your limited vision may detract from your enjoyment of day-to-day activities.
Mian SI. Visual impairment in adults: Refractive disorders and presbyopia. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. Accessed March 5, 2018.
Eye health tips. National Eye Institute. https://nei.nih.gov/healthyeyes/eyehealthtips. Accessed March 5, 2018.
Crossed eyes. Some children with farsightedness may develop crossed eyes. Specially designed eyeglasses that correct for part or all of the farsightedness may treat this problem.
If you're at high risk of certain eye diseases, such as glaucoma, get a dilated eye exam every one to two years, starting at age 40.
Preferred practice patterns: Refractive errors and refractive surgery. American Academy of Ophthalmology. http://one.aao.org/preferred-practice-pattern/refractive-errors--surgery-ppp-2013. Accessed March 17, 2015.
Mayo Clinic Health Letter - FREE book - Mayo Clinic Press
Every one to three years between ages 55 and 64
For Medical ProfessionalsFor Medical ProfessionalsProvider RelationsCareLink Online ReferralsContinuing Medical EducationMayo Clinic LaboratoriesAskMayoExpertVideo CenterJournals and Publications
You have general eye discomfort or a headache after doing close tasks, such as reading, writing, computer work or drawing, for a time
NEW – The Essential Diabetes Book - Mayo Clinic Press
Astigmatism. This occurs when your cornea or lens is curved more steeply in one direction than it is in another. Uncorrected astigmatism blurs your vision.
If you don't wear glasses or contacts, have no symptoms of eye trouble, and are at a low risk of developing eye diseases, such as glaucoma, get an eye exam at the following intervals:
The cornea is the clear, dome-shaped front surface of your eye.
Eyestrain. Uncorrected farsightedness may cause you to squint or strain your eyes to maintain focus. This can lead to eyestrain and headaches.
Check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from Mayo Clinic Press.
You have eyestrain, including burning eyes, and aching in or around the eyes
Softing Hataye AL (expert opinion). Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. Sept. 18, 2018.
Health InformationHealth InformationDiseases & Conditions A-ZSymptoms A-ZTests & Procedures A-ZDrugs & Supplements A-ZHealth BooksHealthy Living ProgramMayo Clinic Health LetterMayo Clinic Voice AppsHealthy LifestyleFeatured conditionsBrain tumor, breast cancer, colon cancer, congenital heart disease, heart arrhythmia.See more conditions.
Adult vision: 41 to 60 years of age. American Optometric Association. https://www.aoa.org/patients-and-public/good-vision-throughout-life/adult-vision-19-to-40-years-of-age/adult-vision-41-to-60-years-of-age. Accessed March 5, 2018.
College of Medicine and ScienceCollege of Medicine and ScienceMayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical SciencesMayo Clinic Alix School of MedicineMayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional DevelopmentMayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical EducationMayo Clinic School of Health Sciences
The degree of your farsightedness influences your focusing ability. People with severe farsightedness may be able to clearly see only objects a great distance away, while those with mild farsightedness may be able to clearly see objects that are closer.
Since it may not always be readily apparent that you're having trouble with your vision, the American Academy of Ophthalmology recommends the following intervals for regular eye exams:
With normal vision, an image is sharply focused onto the surface of the retina. In farsightedness (hyperopia), your cornea doesn't refract light properly, so the point of focus falls behind the retina. This makes close-up objects appear blurry.
Impaired safety. Your own safety and that of others may be jeopardized if you have an uncorrected vision problem. This could be especially serious if you are driving a car or operating heavy equipment.
Mayo Clinic on Incontinence - Mayo Clinic PressMayo Clinic on Incontinence
Comprehensive adult medical eye evaluation - 2015. American Academy of Ophthalmology. https://www.aao.org/preferred-practice-pattern/comprehensive-adult-medical-eye-evaluation-2015#HIGHLIGHTEDRECOMMENDATIONSFORCARE. Accessed March 5, 2018.
Mayo Clinic Health Letter - FREE book - Mayo Clinic PressMayo Clinic Health Letter - FREE book
Children need to be screened for eye disease and have their vision tested by a pediatrician, an ophthalmologist, an optometrist or another trained screener at the following ages and intervals.
The process of making a final decision, a process that may be more art than science, can be clarified by "keeping score."[3]: 143  Johnson compares scenario scoring techniques based on either maximizing value or minimizing harm. The latter, formulated as a probabilistic assessment of risks, confers long-term advantage in forcing the consideration of "not just our objectives and values, but also something we can be too quick to dismiss: the highly unlikely catastrophe."[3]: 140
Reviews of Farsighted are generally positive, emphasizing Johnson's expertise in writing about the history of ideas and praising its use of apt examples.The New York Times called it an "idea book," a "riveting" analysis of how skilled long-term thinkers approach decisions that, unlike a typical business book, does not prescribe "easy formulas" for how one would make decisions about "the grand moments that shape our futures."[4] A Financial Times review praises Johnson's suitability to address this topic, gracefully served examples, and its "positive" approach.[5] The Wall Street Journal said the book "lose(s) steam" in a consideration of decision-making at a global scale, illustrated with the issue of climate change, but its final chapter, regarding a momentous personal decision, seems to be "from the heart."[6]
^ "Nonfiction Book Review: Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most by Steven Johnson". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
Johnson uses a case-study approach to explore the deliberate, "full-spectrum" analysis process used by successful decision-makers.[1][2] Examples range widely, from the 2011 raid that killed Osama Bin Laden to the destruction of Manhattan's Collect Pond, and even include the literary depiction of decision-making under uncertainty in George Eliot's Middlemarch. Johnson mines these examples for decision-making tools: "We don't have an infallible algorithm for making wise choices, but we do have a meaningful body of techniques that can keep us from making stupid ones. "[3]: 144
Crabtree, James (26 October 2018). "Farsighted by Steven Johnson — precision planning or gut instinct?". Financial Times. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
^ "Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most". Kirkus Reviews. 18 June 2018. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r Johnson, Steven (2018). Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most. Riverhead. ISBN 978-1-59448-821-4.
"Nonfiction Book Review: Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most by Steven Johnson"
"Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most". Kirkus Reviews. 18 June 2018. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
The first step in confronting a hard choice is to make a map "to describe the literal and figurative terrain around you: taking inventory of all the forces at play; sketching out all the regions that are visible, and at least acknowledging the blind spots; charting the potential paths you can take in navigating the space."[3]: 75  The goal is "a set of potential paths, given the variables at play in the overall system.... mapping is the point in the decision process where divergence and diversity are key. You are not looking for consensus in this phase; you are looking to expand the range of possible factors (and, ultimately, decision paths). The challenge of mapping is getting outside our intuitive sense of the situation in front of us. Our minds naturally gravitate to narrowband interpretations, compressing the full spectrum down into one dominant slice."[3]: 44  Farsighted decision-makers do not force the map "to match some existing template," but instead develop "the kind of keen vision required to see the situation as it truly is."[3]: 48
^ Crabtree, James (26 October 2018). "Farsighted by Steven Johnson — precision planning or gut instinct?". Financial Times. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
Subsequent chapters entitled "The Global Choice" and "The Personal Choice" explore the ramifications of decisions affecting many or a few people, and the important role of imagination in each.[3]: 149–211
^ Shaywitz, David (12 September 2018). "Bookshelf: 'Farsighted' Review: How to Make Up Your Mind". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
^ a b Grant, Adam (2 October 2018). "Book Review: 'How Do We Make the Long-Term Decisions That Matter?' Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most by Steven Johnson". The New York Times. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
In Johnson's view, "the craft of making farsighted choices — decisions that require long periods of deliberation, decisions whose consequences might last for years, if not centuries, as in the case of Collect Pond — is a strangely underappreciated skill."[3]: 13  A tendency to concentrate on the specific elements of a decision may obscure the process by which "hard decisions" are made, a slow process that is very different from the "flash judgments and gut impressions profiled in books like Blink and How We Decide,"[3]: 14  which rely on the automatic "System 1" brain described in Daniel Kahneman's Thinking, Fast and Slow.
Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most (2018) is a nonfiction book by American journalist Steven Johnson.
Find sources: "Farsighted" book – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
Shaywitz, David (12 September 2018). "Bookshelf: 'Farsighted' Review: How to Make Up Your Mind". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
Making hard choices implicitly entails "making predictions about the course of future events,"[3]: 101  but successful decisions require "a better-than-chance understanding of where the paths you're choosing between are going to take you. You can't be farsighted if the road ahead is blurry."[3]: 89  Hill's randomized controlled trial concept is offered as an example of a tool that meaningfully increased the accuracy of predicting the future behavior of complex systems.[3]: 92, 101
Interview with the author on the WAMU/NPR 1A program (06 Sep 2018)[1]
Johnson, Steven (2018). Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most. Riverhead. ISBN 978-1-59448-821-4.
"Farsighted by Steven Johnson — precision planning or gut instinct?"
Johnson advances the idea that skilled, forward-looking decision-makers use a process comprising separate mapping, predicting (including forecasting and simulating), and deciding steps. Decisions involve distinct divergence and consensus phases. "In a divergence phase, the key objective is to get as many perspectives and variables on the table as possible through exploratory exercises designed to reveal new possibilities.... sometimes those possibilities take the form of an entirely new path that you didn't contemplate at the beginning of the process. In the consensus phase, the open-ended exploration of new possibilities reverses course, and the group begins to narrow down its options, seeking agreement on the correct path. Each phase requires a distinct set of cognitive tools and collaborative models to succeed."[3]: 21–22
This page was last edited on 19 September 2022, at 00:31 (UTC).
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Farsighted" book – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
"Nonfiction Book Review: Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most by Steven Johnson". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
Grant, Adam (2 October 2018). "Book Review: 'How Do We Make the Long-Term Decisions That Matter?' Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most by Steven Johnson". The New York Times. Retrieved 11 January 2019.
"Book Review: 'How Do We Make the Long-Term Decisions That Matter?' Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most by Steven Johnson"
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r
Ensemble simulations, war games, scenario planning, red teams, and Gary Klein's "premortem" procedure[3]: 101–119  serve to incorporate and localize uncertainty, helping decision-makers avoid a "range of cognitive habits — from the fallacy of extrapolation to overconfidence to confirmation bias – [that] tends to blind us to the potential pitfalls of a decision once we have committed to it."[3]: 119  Several of these tools were used to reduce and define uncertainties encountered in planning the US raid on Abbottabad.
As reviews of this book have noted,[4] Johnson does not prescribe a particular approach but counsels the decision-maker to take time to mull over options[3]: 143  and select paths that can be modified later.[3]: 141  "Hard choices demand that we train the mind to override the snap judgments of System 1 thinking, that we keep our mind open to new possibilities — starting with the possibility that our instinctive response to a situation is quite likely the wrong one."[3]: 143
"Farsighted: How We Make the Decisions That Matter the Most"
