This page was last edited on 7 June 2022, at 13:35 (UTC).
Objectivity (science), the concept of a position formed without incorporating one's own prejudice
Exemplar (disambiguation), a prototype or model which others can use to understand a topic better
This page was last edited on 16 September 2022, at 04:08 (UTC).
HMS Example (P165), an Archer-class patrol and training vessel of the Royal Navy
The Example (comics), a 2009 graphic novel by Tom Taylor and Colin Wilson
exempli gratia (e.g.), usually read out in English as "for example"
Exemplum, medieval collections of short stories to be told in sermons
.example, reserved as a domain name that may not be installed as a top-level domain of the Internetexample.com, example.net, example.org, example.edu, second-level domain names reserved for use in documentation as examples
Example (album), a 1995 album by American rock band For Squirrels
Example (musician), the British dance musician Elliot John Gleave (born 1982)
example.com, example.net, example.org, example.edu, second-level domain names reserved for use in documentation as examples
Reagle, J.and Weitzner, D. (1998). Statement on the Intent and Use of PICS: Using PICSWell. Note, W3C.[ http://www.w3.org/TR/xmldsig-p3p-profile/]
Dogma: the path of faith which insists on the truth of its ideology;"users of the work may then agree or disagree, and find the compilationuseful or useless" (p. 55).
First, the term is far superior to the notion of "unbiased" – theoriginal coinage of the Wikipedia's predecessor, the Nupedia – since thatconnotes a sense of epistemic purity whereas neutrality is indicative of acareful and fair balancing.
Cranor, L.and Reagle, J. (1997). Designing a social protocol: lessons learned from thePlatform for Privacy Preferences Project. In Proceedings of theTelecommunications Policy Research Conference (TPRC97). ACM Press, NY.[ http://www.w3.org/People/Reagle/papers/tprc97/tprc-f2m3.html]
A recent prominent debate about technological neutrality, in which Iparticipated, arose in the context of the W3C's content labeling standard(PICS) and related policy statements. The W3C's policy neutralstancehad its genesis, in part, in the earlier work of the X Consortium:
Still, this case highlights the importance of impartiality, wherepossible, and a realization that this impartiality itself might have lessthan desirable consequences.
Claims of neutrality and accusations of bias are common themes ofcontemporary discourse about the media, government, education, andtechnology. In this essay I extend earlier work on the collaborative cultureof Wikipedia (an on-line and free encyclopedia) to specifically focus on thefundamental but often misunderstood notion of neutrality. The Neutral Pointof View (NPOV) policy recommends that "[a]rticles should be written withoutbias, representing all views fairly" (Wikipedia 2004npv). As I arguedpreviously, the importance of this norm is that "while the perception is thatNPOV is the source of much debate, it may act rather as a heat shield:reducing conflict and otherwise channeling outstanding arguments in theproductive context of the primary goal of developing an encyclopedia that isrepresentative of many viewpoints" (Reagle 2005).
Finally, in the Wikipedia culture, the notion of "neutrality" is notunderstood so much as an end result, but as a process. Elsewhere, I employedthe fancy coinage of "epistemic stance" (2005) to label the good faith,open-minded, "writing for the enemy" disposition contributors should take:"We should all be engaged in explaining each other's points of view assympathetically as possible"; while, "The other side might very well findyour attempts to characterize their views substandard, but it's the thoughtthat counts" (Wikipedia 2004npv).
a sensitivityto the ways in which technical and social systemsmight unfairly discriminate against, often minority, positions(from bias in technological systems)
Wales, J.(2005). Wikipedia and defamation: man apologizes after fake Wikipedia post.Air-l. Retrieved on December 14, 2005 from .
Wikipedia(2004). Wikipedia:neutral point of view. Wikimedia. Retrieved on March 05,2004 from .
When I look up the word "fair" in my dictionary the first sense givenincludes the word "unbiased" - not terribly useful. However, it also notes an"accordance with the rules." This notion of playing by the rules is animportant one. Many of us are familiar with the childhood protocol ofdetermining who is "it" - perhaps the seeker in the game of hide-and-seek.And we also know that if clever and careful enough, the person reciting therhyme (" one potato, two potato, three potato, four") can determine theoutcome. Consequently, in the face of imperfect protocols and rules, fairnessmight require one to act in good faith, to assume the best, and grant thebenefit of the doubt to others. It also sometimes requires a level ofscrutiny and accountability, much like Reagan's aphorism on mutual nucleardisarmament with the Soviets, "trust but confirm." (Interestingly, last monthI encountered a fair "it" protocol on a bocce court: the organizer says "go"and together each player throws her fist into the center with a random numberof fingers extended; these are summed and then counted from the organizeraround the circle until stopping on the "it.")
Rationalism: the path of reason and secular humanism which privilegesassertions that achieve a consensus by means of evidence and logicalarguments.
The question in the title of this paper begs a question: what is meant by"neutrality"? In the previous section I offer definitions of objective,neutral, and transparent, and a provisional framework for neutrality. In thissection I hope to show neutrality is the right term for Wikipedia to concernitself with.
In any case, it's not clear to me the extent to which McArthur felt thesecategories must be exclusive, or how they might be applied to new works.Consequently, I turn away from the study of reference works towards every daynotions of neutrality to better understand what that term might mean in theWikipedia context.
Second, the Wikipedia community appears to be very committed to not beingbiased in the sense of Friedman and Nissenbaum (1996). Wikipedia contentmight exhibit pre-existing bias in that there's a disproportionate amount ofarticles on technical and science fiction topics - reflecting thepredispositions of many of the original contributors. Yet, the "counteringsystemic bias" project (Wikipedia 2005csb) is intended to address thisproblem.
Second, from the cases I discern a frame for conceiving of neutrality,which includes:
This essay is inspired by earlier debates on neutrality of technicalstandards, literature on bias in technical systems, my present fascinationwith this Wikipedia norm and a change in my belief that while an importantconcept, the label of neutrality was an unfortunate coinage in the Wikipediacontext. In this essay I hope to make a compelling argument that the label ofneutrality is appropriate. I first consider a number of cases in whichnotions of neutrality are central (other reference works, playing games,technical systems and standards, content regulation, and war), define theterms "objective," "bias," and "neutral," and provide a framework forconsidering neutrality. I conclude by arguing that the term "neutral" is theright word for discussing the aspirations and results of Wikipediacontribution.
In this case, both the mechanism and policy spoken of were largelytechnical: the mechanism might specify the rendering of a window element(e.g., size and color) while the policy was a user controlled specificrendering (e.g., large and blue). In the context of the W3C projects, thepolicies were associated with the social issues of speech/censorship andprivacy. However, substantively, the approach was the same as that of the XConsortium. The W3C policy statement declared:
In this sense, neutrality connotes a modular plurality that permits one toaccommodate multiple policies or positions. (Paul Resnick, an author of thePICS standard, would often speak of "letting a thousand flowers bloom.")However, the claims of neutrality were contested, by critics such as Lessig(1997), because supporting multiple policies was itself a policy, and onethat could facilitate the censorious actions of China. (PICS designersattempted to argue (Reagle and Weitzner 1998) that this was not theirintention nor a likely outcome.)
Neutral: the claims are satisfactory, or at least mutuallyunsatisfactory, to the claims' constituencies. For example, when thepress represents an issue by first finding the two extremes of theargument, they have at least not favored one of those extremes. Problemsof this stance include that the constituencies may have not beenaccurately represented, both with respect to their positions and relativenumbers.
One might ask if decisions are made in a content neutralmanner. Iborrow this concept from U.S. jurisprudence where it acts as a test for thelevel of judicial scrutiny applied to Congressional restrictions ofexpression. Content neutral laws (e.g., a ban on leafleting regardless ofwhat the leaflets say) must pass the lower standard of being narrowlytailored, have an important objective (not involving the suppression ofspeech), and permit other alternative means of communication. Laws that dodiscriminate based on the content of the speech (e.g., reproductive healthinformation) must pass the higher standard of serving a compelling stateinterest for which there is no other less restrictive implementation.
Bowker,G. C. and Star, S. L. (1999). Sorting things out: classification and itsconsequences. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.
W3C (1997).Statement on public policy. W3C. Retrieved on September 15, 2005 from.
Lessig, L.(1997). Tyranny in the infrastructure. Wired, 5(07). Retrieved on September15, 2005 from .
Neutrality and fairness: the path of "would-be even-handedness" thatoffers a "menu of various viewpoints," such as both faith and reason.
First, the prominence of the Wikipedia and the "blogosphere" relative totraditional reference works and journalism has occasioned much opportunityfor discussion about the positions each of these media might take withrespect to neutrality. In light of this and the previous cases I offer anunderstanding of the terms of objective, neutral, and transparent. I'm attempting to distinguish how each is used todescribe the legitimacy associated with making a claim and possible problemsassociated with that legitimacy.
For the purposes of this paper, the salient point is that by not becominginvolved in the partisan conflicts of others one can gain the respect ofthose others and realize benefits resulting from productive engagement witheach.
A collection of scholars have noted that the ways in which we order(Bowker and Star 1999) and mechanize the world can be an exercise of power,or "political" (Winner 1986). Friedman and Nissenbaum (1996) define bias assystematic and unfair discrimination, not incidental (p. 23), and posit threepossible sources. Pre-existing bias has its roots in social institutions,(e.g., "red-lining", or failing to offer home loans in certainneighborhoods); technical bias arises from decisions made in technical design(e.g., the size and way in which results are presented can favor those on thetop of the first page); emergent bias arises in the context of use (e.g.,educational software designed in a culture that rewards competitive andindividualistic playing strategies may penalize students of a morecooperative culture).
Friedman, B.and Nissenbaum, H. (1996). Bias in computer systems. ACM Transactions inInformation Systems, 14(2):330-346.
Wikipedia(2006). Wikipedia:wikiproject Countering systemic bias. Wikimedia. Retrievedon April 06, 2006 17:43 UTC from .
Transparent: the claims have no pretense to objectivity, nor inaccommodating various constituencies, but plainly represent the speaker'sbias (e.g., the blogger who simply writes what she thinks). Problems ofthis stance include that it is often misperceived as one of the other two(objective or neutral), and that it includes no inclination towardsfinding common ground with others.
The contribution of this case is to require an explicit justification fordiscrimination and that the justification be satisfied with the leastrestricted mechanism possible.
Many of us are probably familiar with the neutrality of Switzerland inarmed conflicts: "The term 'neutrality' is defined by the internationalcommunity as non-participation in armed conflicts between other states" (DDPS2005). Given the recent unification of Europe and the datedness of the HagueConventions of 1907, Switzerland undertook a reconsideration of itsneutrality policy in 1991. While the resulting white paper and supportingdocumentation is interesting, and surprisingly nuanced, the Federal Councilconcluded: "Swiss policy should continue to be characterized by the constancyand predictability that have earned Switzerland the respect of theinternational community in the past" (DDPS1993).
The important notion here, for my purposes, is sensitivity to thepossibility of systematic discrimination that is often hidden. For example,from the previous case of fair play, an "accordance with the rules" can onlybe as fair as the rules themselves; so we also need the larger system ofrules to be open to scrutiny.
It would not surprise me if the very brief tour of these cases has, whileraising related concepts, only further muddied the waters. Consequently, Ishall now try to fix these notions into a semblance of coherency andspecificity.
McArthur, T.(1986). Worlds of reference: lexicography, learning, and language from theclay tablet to the computer. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
An extension of sportsmanlike good-faith, and an adherenceto known rules, a submission to some authority forarbitration, as well as an expectation of accountability(from playing fair)
For example, some do argue that because the Wikipedia permits anyone toedit, it also allows frauds and defamations. In a recent discussion about acase of defamation of John Seigenthaler Sr. (Seelye 2005), Jimmy Wales arguedthat to equate openness with defamation is like equating a restaurant's steakknives with stabbings. To force everyone in the restaurant to be isolated insteel cages because of the possibility of a stabbing would violate the valuesof "human kindness, benevolence, and a positive sense of community" and,consequently, "I do not accept the spin that Wikipedia 'allows anyone towrite anything' just because we do not metaphysically prevent it by puttingauthors in cages" (Wales 2005). This example speaks to the question of themoral responsibility of those who design a particular structure for the rangeof actions taken by users of that structure – much like Lessig's accusationthat PICS could be used by China. Also, the values of community and opennessmight in some cases conflict with the values of safety and integrity. In thisparticular case, one would have to consider the relative likelihoods of astabbing given the presence of steak knives in a restaurant, with falseinformation appearing on the Wikipedia given a lack of access controls. And,the relative difficulties and consequences of accommodating the other valuesof safety and integrity such as steel cages or requiring Wikipedia editors toauthenticate themselves.
What, then, does the notion of playing fairly contribute towardsunderstanding Wikipedia's notion of neutrality? Unfortunately this case, norany other case - and perhaps not even their sum - provides a bright line bywhich one can simply proclaim neutrality. Instead, one encounters attributesthat help one assess whether something is more or less neutral, and how onemight be more so in the future. In this case, the notion of participantsfollowing a collection of rules under some sort of authority with some levelaccountability is key.
The Wikipedia's concern with how to reconcile disparate views is notunique. McArthur (1986:55) notes that compilers of reference always have to"come to terms with the worldviews dominant in society at any time, or mayneed to seek a compromise among the worldviews that conflict." He foundevidence of five different common approaches:
DDPS (1993).White paper on neutrality - annex to the report on swiss foreign policy forthe nineties. The Federal Department Of Defense, Civil Protection and Sports(DDPS), Switzerland. Retrieved on September 15, 2005 from .
Seelye,K. Q. (2005). Snared in the Web of a Wikipedia liar. New York Times.Retrieved on December 08, 2005 from .
Clearly, one might find instances of less-than neutral systems, people,and articles on the Wikipedia. And reasonable people might disagree over aparticular case. However, "neutral" is the right frame for discussing suchcases and for understanding the larger aspirations of the community.
A case of technical bias might be the way in which the present Wikipediastructure is "radically" open (no special application is required for anyoneto edit a Web page); this also permits antisocial behavior such as vandalismwhich can be a nuisance to repair or even alienate serious contributors.However, I would argue that openness is a value of the community rather thana bias: it is not hidden or unfair to a particular constituency. Yes, theconsequence of one value (e.g., openness) might conflict with another (e.g.,being honest about another). Yet, for this class of problem, it would bebetter to understand how differing values can be balanced, or even better,reconciled.
While this is an interesting taxonomy, it is not easy to place theWikipedia within it for two reasons. First, McArthur's analysis applied tofinished products that were the results of a coherent and small editorialteam with a homogeneous editorial policy, relative to the perspectives of therest of the world. The Wikipedia is the product of thousands of contributorswith differing worldviews interacting directly. Second, one can find elementsof each of these worldviews in Wikipedia. For example, some might say thatWikipedia's neutrality policy is dogmatic; WikiInfo was founded for just thisreason and permits users to associate differing viewpoints on any givenarticle rather than developing a single "neutral" article. Additionally,Wikipedia's discursive culture is based on rationalism, concerned withconsensus and encourages any claims to reference published materials ratherthan "original" (potentially crackpot) research. And, as I will show, notionsof neutrality and fairness are very important. Finally, compromises do occur,and in keeping with the forever incomplete and changing nature of theWikipedia, it is nothing if not a pragmatic undertaking.
Additionally, the communication and collaborative norms in which theWikipedia originally developed may only become clear when it encounters newcontexts. For example, now that the Wikipedia has many internationalcontributors there have been accusations of America-centrism. Yet, theWikipedia community supports over 30 world language editions with 10,000articles or more, strives to be international, and heroically struggles withthe problem of spelling and place names (Reagle 2005).
Reagle, J.(2005). A case of mutual aid: Wikipedia, politeness, and perspective taking.In Proceedings of Wikimania 2005. Retrieved on April 01, 2005 from.
Bob Scheifler, adeveloper of the X Windows System, … is often quoted for his useful maximof "mechanism not policy." The application of this statement was towards therather technical decision of how applications should avoid setting Xresources directly, but instead allow these "policy" decisions to becontrolled by the user (Scheifler, 87). The result was a mechanism thatallowed user control over graphical elements and [the] window system. (Cranorand Reagle 1997)
Objective: the claims have a correspondence to reality; they aretypically embedded in a framework by which their validity is affirmed.For example, the scientific method posits mechanisms that mitigate errorscommon to human perception and therefore affirms its aspiration towardsobjectivity. Problems of this stance include the fact that the sort ofclaims one makes, and the questions one asks, are personally or sociallyinfluenced without such methodological bracing. Also, the appearance ofobjective methodologies can be easily mimicked.
Pragmatic: the path of not "worry[ing] about cosmic underpinnings" butgetting on with it, though this naivety might be deceptive to allinvolved.
Winner, L.(1986). Do artifacts have politics? In The Whale and the Reactor, pages18-39. The University of Chicago Press, Chicago.[ http://www-personal.si.umich.edu/~rfrost/courses/Women+Tech/readings/Winner.html]
a notion of impartialityand pluralitybetween possibleparticipants or positions. This permits the benefit of forward movementfrom interaction with the otherwise irreconcilable (from neutrality intechnical standardsand times of war).
a commitment to use and improve upon mechanisms which are the leastonerous(from content neutrality in speech)
Since the Web isglobal, its technology must support a wide range of policy options thatencourage all cultures to use the Web. To support this mission in the contextof a global information space, the W3C must be aware of and apply anunderstanding of public policy (which may inhibit or promote the growth ofthe Web) towards Web technology. W3C works on behalf of and with itsmembership to build and maintain an inter-operable network architecture. Thisarchitecture must allow local policies to co-exist without culturalfragmentation or domination. (W3C 1997)
Compromise: the path of propaganda and expediency which attempts toreconcile - in the open or concealed - a dominant view with compatibleelements of other views.
