Perhaps the darkest evocation of the mood of negative capability in popular culture comes from Bob Dylan's song "Not Dark Yet" which is best listened to[42] rather than read. Bob Dylan has famously been called 'Keats with a guitar' by the New York Times and others,[43] and this song shows their close affinity through contiguous explorations of their respective negative capabilities.
^ TheLetters of John Keats, ed. by H E Rollins, 2 vols (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1958), i, p 185.https://www.bl.uk/romantics-and-victorians/articles/john-keats-and-negative-capability.
I compare human life to a large Mansion of Many Apartments, two of which I can only describe, the doors of the rest being as yet shut upon me—The first we step into we call the infant or thoughtless Chamber, in which we remain as long as we do not think—We remain there a long while, and notwithstanding the doors of the second Chamber remain wide open, showing a bright appearance, we care not to hasten to it; but are at length imperceptibly impelled by the awakening of the thinking principle—within us—we no sooner get into the second Chamber, which I shall call the Chamber of Maiden-Thought, than we become intoxicated with the light and the atmosphere, we see nothing but pleasant wonders, and think of delaying there for ever in delight: However among the effects [which] this breathing is father of is that tremendous one of sharpening one's vision into the heart and nature of Man—of convincing ones nerves that the World is full of Misery and Heartbreak, Pain, Sickness, and oppression—whereby This Chamber of Maiden Thought becomes gradually darken'd and at the same time on all sides of it many doors are set open—but all dark—all leading to dark passages—We see not the balance of good and evil.We are in a Mist—We are now in that state—We feel the 'burden of the Mystery,' To this point was Wordsworth come, as far as I can conceive when he wrote 'Tintern Abbey' and it seems to me that his Genius is explorative of those dark Passages.Now if we live, and go on thinking, we too shall explore them.he is a Genius and superior to us, in so far as he can, more than we, make discoveries, and shed a light in them—Here I must think Wordsworth is deeper than Milton[.][5]
^ Keats wrote : 'I have never yet been able to perceive how any thing can be known for truth by consequitive reasoning' (Letters I 184) https://www.bl.uk/romantics-and-victorians/articles/john-keats-and-negative-capability
Wigod, Jacob D. 1952. "Negative Capability and Wise Passiveness." PMLA 67 (4) (1 June): 384–386
We hate poetry that has a palpable design upon us—and if we do not agree, seems to put its hand in its breeches pocket. Poetry should be great & unobtrusive, a thing which enters into one's soul, and does not startle it or amaze it with itself but with its subject.[4]
^ a b Liu, Siyuan; Erkkinen, Michael G.; Healey, Meghan L.; Xu, Yisheng; Swett, Katherine E.; Chow, Ho Ming; Braun, Allen R. (26 May 2015). "Brain activity and connectivity during poetry composition: Toward a multidimensional model of the creative process". Human Brain Mapping. 36 (9): 3351–3372. doi:10.1002/hbm.22849. ISSN 1065-9471. PMC 4581594. PMID 26015271.
^ "Three Visions of Johanna". The Panoptic. 23 October 2016. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
^ Li, Richard W. (1995). Ut pictura poesis: Keats, anamorphosis, and Taoism (Thesis). University of British Columbia.
This thesis of negative capability is a key component in Unger's theory of false necessity and formative context. The theory of false necessity claims that our social worlds are the artifact of our own human endeavors. There is no pre-set institutional arrangement that our societies adhere to, and there is no necessary historical mold of development that they will follow. Rather we are free to choose and develop the forms and the paths that our societies will take through a process of conflicts and resolutions. However, there are groups of institutional arrangements that work together to bring out certain institutional forms, liberal democracy, for example. These forms are the basis of a social structure, and which Unger calls formative contexts. In order to explain how we move from one formative context to another without the conventional social theory constraints of historical necessity (e.g. feudalism to capitalism), and to do so while remaining true to the key insight of individual human empowerment and anti-necessitarian social thought, Unger recognized that there are an infinite number of ways of resisting social and institutional constraints, which can lead to an infinite number of outcomes. This variety of forms of resistance and empowerment (i.e. negative capability) make change possible.[29]
Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: Youtube. "Not Dark Yet". Youtube. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
Keats wrote : 'I have never yet been able to perceive how any thing can be known for truth by consequitive reasoning' (Letters I 184) https://www.bl.uk/romantics-and-victorians/articles/john-keats-and-negative-capability
Keats used the phrase only briefly in a private letter, and it became known only after his correspondence was collected and published.In a letter to his brothers, George and Thomas, on 22 December 1817, Keats described a conversation he had been engaged in a few days previously:[2]
Unger, Roberto (2004). False Necessity: Anti-Necessitarian Social Theory in the Service of Radical Democracy, Revised Edition. London: Verso. pp. 279–280, 632. ISBN 978-1-85984-331-4.
^ "Poem: Marina by T. S. Eliot". www.poetrynook.com. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
S. Fish, "Unger and Milton", in Doing What Comes Naturally (1989): 430
^ Joan and Neville Symington, The Clinical Thinking of Wilfrid Bion (1996) p. 169
Stanley Fish has expressed strong reservations about the attempt to apply the concept of negative capability to social contexts. He criticized Unger's early work as being unable to chart a route for the idea to pass into reality, which leaves history closed and the individual holding onto the concept while kicking against air. Fish finds the capability Unger invokes in his early works unimaginable and unmanufacturable that can only be expressed outright in blatant speech, or obliquely in concept.[44] More generally, Fish finds the idea of radical culture as an oppositional ideal in which context is continuously refined or rejected impracticable at best, and impossible at worst.[45] Unger has addressed these criticisms by developing a full theory of historical process in which negative capability is employed.[46]
This concept of negative capability is precisely a rejection of set philosophies and preconceived systems of nature.[7] He demanded that the poet be receptive rather than searching for fact or reason, and to not seek absolute knowledge of every truth, mystery, or doubt.[8]
"Three Visions of Johanna". The Panoptic. 23 October 2016. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
"Midsummer Night's Dream, Act V, Scene 1 :|: Open Source Shakespeare"
When I have Fears that I may Cease to Be
(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act V scene 1, from line 1841)[21]
Roberto Mangabeira Unger appropriated Keats' term in order to explain resistance to rigid social divisions and hierarchies. For Unger, negative capability is the "denial of whatever in our contexts delivers us over to a fixed scheme of division and hierarchy and to an enforced choice between routine and rebellion." It is thus through negative capability that we can further empower ourselves against social and institutional constraints, and loosen the bonds that entrap us in a certain social station.[27]
^ Keats, John (1899). The Complete Poetical Works and Letters of John Keats, Cambridge Edition. Houghton, Mifflin and Company. p. 277. ISBN 978-1-146-96754-9.
^ S. Fish, "Unger and Milton", in Doing What Comes Naturally (1989): 430
An example of negative capability can be seen at work in industrial innovation. In order to create an innovator's advantage and develop new forms of economic enterprise, the modern industrialist could not just become more efficient with surplus extraction based on pre-existing work roles, but rather needed to invent new styles of flexible labor, expertise, and capital management. The industrialist needed to bring people together in new and innovative ways and redefine work roles and workplace organization. The modern factory had to, at once, stabilize its productive environment by inventing new restraints upon labor, such as length of the work day and division of tasks, but at the same time could not be too severe or risk being at a disadvantage to competitors, e.g. not being able to shift production tasks or capacity. Those industrialists and managers who were able to break old forms of organizational arrangements exercised negative capability.[28]
^ "John Keats – "The Chameleon Poet" – Letter to Richard Woodhouse, October 27th, 1818". Genius. Retrieved 9 December 2020.
^ His Dark Materials, Series 2: 2. The Cave: www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/m000pk3m via @bbciplayer. See especially position 26.49
Shilton, Lynda Hawryluk and Leni (22 July 2014). "Negotiating 'negative capability' : The role of place in writing for two Australian poets". www.axonjournal.com.au. Retrieved 11 December 2020.
Unger, Roberto (2004). False Necessity: Anti-Necessitarian Social Theory in the Service of Radical Democracy, Revised Edition. London: Verso. pp. 299–301. ISBN 978-1-85984-331-4.
Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style.
In the same way that chameleons are 'negative' for colour, Keatsian poets are negative for self and identity:[10] they change their identity with each subject they inhabit.[11] This is a kind of personal Tao, and like the cosmic Tao, negative capability can be difficult to grasp because it is not a name for a thing but rather a way of feeling or of knowing. This intuitive knowing of the inner life of, for example, a nightingale or a Grecian urn, cannot be grasped as a concept; as with Tao, it is known through actual living experience of one's everyday changeable being. This capability depends on being negative to what Keats called 'consequitive reasoning'. In this sense, the word 'negative' is defined in opposition to the positivism prevalent at the time.[12]
Unger, Roberto (2004). False Necessity: Anti-Necessitarian Social Theory in the Service of Radical Democracy, Revised Edition. London: Verso. p. 282. ISBN 978-1-85984-331-4.
Negative capability needs to be understood as just one of a number of moods that may compete in the poet's mind before the poem arrives—i.e. during the phase that may be called prepoetry, after the musical form of the same name which delights in 'uncertainties, mysteries, [and] doubts'.[19] The only valid way to approach this subject is through the words of poets themselves, e.g.:
Liu, Siyuan; Erkkinen, Michael G.; Healey, Meghan L.; Xu, Yisheng; Swett, Katherine E.; Chow, Ho Ming; Braun, Allen R. (26 May 2015). "Brain activity and connectivity during poetry composition: Toward a multidimensional model of the creative process". Human Brain Mapping. 36 (9): 3351–3372. doi:10.1002/hbm.22849. ISSN 1065-9471. PMC 4581594. PMID 26015271.
Keilen, S. (2012). "Dwelling in/on Reading". The Cambridge Quarterly. 41 (2): 279–284. doi:10.1093/camqtly/bfs010.
^ Keats, John (1899). The Complete Poetical Works and Letters of John Keats, Cambridge Edition. Houghton, Mifflin and Company. p. 326. ISBN 978-1-146-96754-9.
^ Goellnicht, Donald. "Negative Capability and Wise Passiveness" MA Thesis. (McMaster University, 1976), 5, 11–12. http://hdl.handle.net/11375/9563
I had not a dispute but a disquisition with Dilke, upon various subjects; several things dove-tailed in my mind, and at once it struck me what quality went to form a Man of Achievement, especially in Literature, and which Shakespeare possessed so enormously—I mean Negative Capability, that is, when a man is capable of being in uncertainties, mysteries, doubts, without any irritable reaching after fact and reason—Coleridge, for instance, would let go by a fine isolated verisimilitude caught from the Penetralium of mystery, from being incapable of remaining content with half-knowledge. This pursued through volumes would perhaps take us no further than this, that with a great poet the sense of Beauty overcomes every other consideration, or rather obliterates all consideration.[3]
^ Foundation, Poetry (17 November 2020). "Ode to a Nightingale by John Keats". Poetry Foundation. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
"Negative capability – why it is more positive than you might think -"
There is one other way in which negative capability is miraculous. Poets have long likened their verse to great or sacred rivers,[25]and philosophers such as Heraclitus, from before the time of Socrates, have pointed out that "you can't step into the same river twice, because both you and the river change". Transience confers immortality and change confers identity. The river would not be a river if it did not change or flow. In this sense, the reader cannot step into the same Ode twice. When readers put aside their certainties and embrace change and 'uncertainties, mysteries, and doubts' they set themselves adrift in a drunken boat on this 'miraculous stream'. This current takes the reader down to a 'sunless sea' and a place 'under sleep where all the waters meet', i.e. towards a kind of negative capability, which is now seen to be both the origin and the destination of at least some great poetry.[26] No poet has written his name more clearly or more transparently in these miraculous streams, rivers, and seas than the poet John Keats whose own self-written epitaph reads "Here lies One whose Name was writ in Water".
^ Britannica, The Editors of Encyclopaedia. "negative capability". Encyclopedia Britannica, 21 Apr. 2017, https://www.britannica.com/art/negative-capability. Accessed 12 July 2022.
^ a b Goellnicht, Donald. "Negative Capability and Wise Passiveness" MA Thesis. (McMaster University, 1976), 13. http://hdl.handle.net/11375/9563
Emotion recollected in tranquility and wise passivity (e.g. Wordswoth)The systematic derangement of the senses (e.g. Rimbaud).Automatic writing and thought transference (e.g. Yeats).Frenzy[20] (e.g. Shakespeare).
^ https://journalspress.com/LJRHSS_Volume19/697_Keatss-Sufferings-and-his-Poetry.pdfKeats's Sufferings and His Poetry, Dr. Sandeep Ojha, London Journal of Research in humanities and social sciences. Volume 19 | Issue 5 | page 65.
Goellnicht, Donald. "Negative Capability and Wise Passiveness" MA Thesis. (McMaster University, 1976), 13. http://hdl.handle.net/11375/9563
Keat's concept of negative capability can be understood as an author's ability to remain objective and emotionally detached in his or her representation of characters, objects, and actions. [9] In his essay “Tradition and the Individual Talent,” T. S. Eliot wrote, “the progress of an artist is a continual self-sacrifice, a continual extinction of personality.” According to this line of interpretation, the author negates himself, his own desires and passions, in order to present a fully independent character, one with all the uncertainty and mutability of a real person.
Patrick Casement, Further Learning from the Patient (London 1990) p. 10 and p. 13-4
S. Fish, "Unger and Milton", in Doing What Comes Naturally (1989): 339–435.
"Negative capability – why it is more positive than you might think -". Retrieved 19 November 2020.
Keats, John (1899). The Complete Poetical Works and Letters of John Keats, Cambridge Edition. Houghton, Mifflin and Company. p. 326. ISBN 978-1-146-96754-9.
Li, Richard W. (1995). Ut pictura poesis: Keats, anamorphosis, and Taoism (Thesis). University of British Columbia.
In another letter to Reynolds the following May, he contrived the metaphor of 'the chamber of maiden thought' and the notion of the 'burden of mystery', which together express much the same idea as that of negative capability:
Foundation, Poetry (17 November 2020). "Ode to a Nightingale by John Keats". Poetry Foundation. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
Greek author Dimitris Lyacos considers people living "in the margins" as possessing the negative capability that permits them to cross boundaries and, by accepting "the burden of the mystery", explore uncertainty and the flux of life against western norms and structures. In an interview in Berfrois Magazine Lyacos notes: "We carry with us a backpack of ideas, theories, insecurities and the detailed scenarios we project onto the future. Unlike us, outcasts, fugitives and people in the margins are the ones possessing the negative capability, the power to bear the "burden of the mystery"; immigrants cross seas that might engulf them. Their fear is overcome not only by the hope of a better life but also by their acceptance of those darker alleys, where time and space are created at the moment in which they are experienced."[35]
The above attempts to show how negative capability can inspire great poetry. It does not explain how this mood is then engendered in readers of that poetry. This is one of the miraculous features of Keats's poetry: miraculous in the sense that an engine would be miraculous if it took in a high-octane fuel and then produced more fuel of an even higher octane rather than exhaust. It is possible for a reader to listen to a great Ode, and to read an analysis of it, and still not be moved by it or to feel a sense of negative capability being transmitted. Patience is required, and travel: travel down Keats's winding mossy ways, along his realms of gold, and through labyrinths of suffering and loss.[23] Then when such a traveller returns to the great Odes, their truth and beauty may be more fully appreciated.[24]
Unger, Roberto (1987). Social Theory, Its Situation and Its Task. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-32974-3.
"When I have Fears that I may Cease to Be" (1848)
At one point Coleridge thought of the poet as Truth's Ventriloquist.[22]
This thesis of negative capability addresses the problem of agency in relation to structure. It recognizes the constraints of structure and its molding influence upon the individual, but at the same time finds the individual able to resist, deny, and transcend their context. Unlike other theories of structure and agency, negative capability does not reduce the individual to a simple actor possessing only the dual capacity of compliance or rebellion, but rather sees him as able to partake in a variety of activities of self empowerment.[30]
"Psychoanalysis Downunder". Archived from the original on 4 March 2019. Retrieved 2 May 2018.
^ Unger, Roberto (2004). False Necessity: Anti-Necessitarian Social Theory in the Service of Radical Democracy, Revised Edition. London: Verso. pp. 35–36, 164, 169, 278–80, 299–301. ISBN 978-1-85984-331-4.
Benton, R. P. (1966). "Keats and Zen". Philosophy East and West. 16 (1/2): 33–47. doi:10.2307/1397137. JSTOR 1397137.
"Not Dark Yet: Bob Dylan as 20th century Keats, and the memories that still linger | Untold Dylan". 10 November 2008. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
^ For example Alf, the "sacred River" in Coleridge's Kubla Khan, and the River as a great brown god in TS Eliot's Dry Salvages (Four Quartets).https://www.oatridge.co.uk/poems/t/ts-eliot-dry-salvages.php
^ Unger, Roberto (2004). False Necessity: Anti-Necessitarian Social Theory in the Service of Radical Democracy, Revised Edition. London: Verso. pp. 299–301. ISBN 978-1-85984-331-4.
^ Keats, John (1899). The Complete Poetical Works and Letters of John Keats, Cambridge Edition. Houghton, Mifflin and Company. p. 314. ISBN 978-1-146-96754-9.
"'Only connect'? Forsterian ideology in an age of hyperconnectivity". HumanistLife. 9 April 2014. Retrieved 27 November 2020.
The poet's eye, in fine frenzy rolling,Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven;And as imagination bodies forthforms of things unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shapes and gives to airy nothingA local habitation and a name.
Keats, John (1899). The Complete Poetical Works and Letters of John Keats, Cambridge Edition. Houghton, Mifflin and Company. p. 277. ISBN 978-1-146-96754-9.
W.J. Bate, Negative Capability: The Intuitive Approach in Keats. Intro by Maura Del Serra (New York: Contra Mundum Press, 2012).
The sections below show that negative capability is not the exclusive preserve of poets, but can describe the pre-creative mood of any artist, scientist, or religious person. Negative capability is important as an explanation of how periods of indolence give rise to periods of creativity.[13]: 18
^ "Not Dark Yet: Bob Dylan as 20th century Keats, and the memories that still linger | Untold Dylan". 10 November 2008. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
The notion of negative capability has been associated with Zen philosophy.Keats' man of negative capability had qualities that enabled him to "lose his self-identity, his 'imaginative identification' with and submission to things, and his power to achieve a unity with life". The Zen concept of satori is the outcome of passivity and receptivity, culminating in "sudden insight into the character of the real".Satori is reached without deliberate striving. The antecedent stages to satori: quest, search, ripening and explosion. The "quest" stage is accompanied by a strong feeling of uneasiness, resembling the capacity to practice negative capability while the mind is in a state of "uncertainties, mysteries and doubts". In the explosive stage (akin to Keats' 'chief intensity'), a man of negative capability effects a "fellowship with essence".[36]
Unger, Roberto (2004). False Necessity: Anti-Necessitarian Social Theory in the Service of Radical Democracy, Revised Edition. London: Verso. ISBN 978-1-85984-331-4.
^ Unger, Roberto (2004). False Necessity: Anti-Necessitarian Social Theory in the Service of Radical Democracy, Revised Edition. London: Verso. ISBN 978-1-85984-331-4.
^ Foundation, Poetry (10 December 2020). "The Study of Poetry by Matthew Arnold". Poetry Foundation. Retrieved 11 December 2020.
When humans are presented with external stress, the autonomic nervous system provides them with a 'fight or flight' response. This seems like a binary choice, but Keats provides a third option. Fight or flight has been called positive capability, and teachers of mindfulness stress the importance of cultivating negative capability in order to overcome and provide an alternative to our routine reactions to stress.[18] They point out that this teaches tolerance of uncertainty, and enriches decision making. It may not be productive to discuss whether negative or positive capability is more important, as they are analogous to the poles of a battery: a battery is only a battery if it has both positive and negative terminals.
^ Unger, Roberto (2004). False Necessity: Anti-Necessitarian Social Theory in the Service of Radical Democracy, Revised Edition. London: Verso. pp. 279–280, 632. ISBN 978-1-85984-331-4.
^ Unger, Roberto (2004). False Necessity: Anti-Necessitarian Social Theory in the Service of Radical Democracy, Revised Edition. London: Verso. p. 282. ISBN 978-1-85984-331-4.
H. Aram Veeser ed., The Stanley Fish Reader (Oxford 1999) p.216-7
Keats's ideas here, as was usually the case in his letters, were expressed tersely with no effort to fully expound what he meant, but passages from other letters enlarge on the same theme.In a letter to J.H. Reynolds in February 1818, he wrote:
^ "Negative capability – why it is more positive than you might think -". Retrieved 19 November 2020.
^ "Philip Pullman's introduction to Paradise Lost". The British Library. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
"Negotiating 'negative capability' : The role of place in writing for two Australian poets"
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: Youtube. "Not Dark Yet". Youtube. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
^ H. Aram Veeser ed., The Stanley Fish Reader (Oxford 1999) p.216-7
For example Alf, the "sacred River" in Coleridge's Kubla Khan, and the River as a great brown god in TS Eliot's Dry Salvages (Four Quartets).https://www.oatridge.co.uk/poems/t/ts-eliot-dry-salvages.php
^ Starr, Nathan Comfort (1966). "Negative Capability in Keats's Diction". Keats-Shelley Journal. 15: 59–68. JSTOR 30209856.
"Pre-poetry". Youtube. Archived from the original on 11 December 2021. Retrieved 24 November 2020.
^ "poetic frenzy - definition - English". Glosbe. Retrieved 24 November 2020.
"Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art" (1838)
Goellnicht, Donald. "Negative Capability and Wise Passiveness" MA Thesis. (McMaster University, 1976), 5, 11–12. http://hdl.handle.net/11375/9563
^ "Psychoanalysis Downunder". Archived from the original on 4 March 2019. Retrieved 2 May 2018.
^ Patrick Casement, Further Learning from the Patient (London 1990) p. 10 and p. 13-4
Keats, John (1899). The Complete Poetical Works and Letters of John Keats, Cambridge Edition. Houghton, Mifflin and Company. p. 314. ISBN 978-1-146-96754-9.
Unger, Roberto (2004). False Necessity: Anti-Necessitarian Social Theory in the Service of Radical Democracy, Revised Edition. London: Verso. pp. 35–36, 164, 169, 278–80, 299–301. ISBN 978-1-85984-331-4.
"Not Dark Yet: Bob Dylan as 20th century Keats, and the memories that still linger | Untold Dylan"
"poetic frenzy - definition - English". Glosbe. Retrieved 24 November 2020.
His Dark Materials, Series 2: 2. The Cave: www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/m000pk3m via @bbciplayer. See especially position 26.49
In The Life in the Sonnets, David Fuller makes use of negative capability in addressing the qualities and potential of writing literary criticism. A critic's experience and feelings altogether form a strong framework to expand one's ability in critical thinking, while negative capability replaces the notion of correctness in analyzing literary texts.[47]
^ Foundation, Poetry (9 December 2020). "Selections from Keats's Letters by John Keats". Poetry Foundation. Retrieved 10 December 2020.
Starr, Nathan Comfort (1966). "Negative Capability in Keats's Diction". Keats-Shelley Journal. 15: 59–68. JSTOR 30209856.
^ "'Only connect'? Forsterian ideology in an age of hyperconnectivity". HumanistLife. 9 April 2014. Retrieved 27 November 2020.
Britannica, The Editors of Encyclopaedia. "negative capability". Encyclopedia Britannica, 21 Apr. 2017, https://www.britannica.com/art/negative-capability. Accessed 12 July 2022.
"Midsummer Night's Dream, Act V, Scene 1 :|: Open Source Shakespeare". www.opensourceshakespeare.org. Retrieved 24 November 2020.
TheLetters of John Keats, ed. by H E Rollins, 2 vols (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1958), i, p 185.https://www.bl.uk/romantics-and-victorians/articles/john-keats-and-negative-capability.
Negative capability is a phrase first used by Romantic poet John Keats in 1817 to explain the capacity of the greatest writers (particularly Shakespeare) to pursue a vision of artistic beauty even when it leads them into intellectual confusion and uncertainty, as opposed to a preference for philosophical certainty over artistic beauty. The term has been used by poets and philosophers to describe the ability to perceive and recognise truths beyond the reach of consecutive reasoning.[1]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Li, Ou (2009). Keats and Negative Capability. Continuum International Publishing Group. p. ix.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Li, Ou (2009). Keats and Negative Capability. Continuum International Publishing Group. p. ix.
"Philip Pullman's introduction to Paradise Lost". The British Library. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
^ Benton, R. P. (1966). "Keats and Zen". Philosophy East and West. 16 (1/2): 33–47. doi:10.2307/1397137. JSTOR 1397137.
https://journalspress.com/LJRHSS_Volume19/697_Keatss-Sufferings-and-his-Poetry.pdfKeats's Sufferings and His Poetry, Dr. Sandeep Ojha, London Journal of Research in humanities and social sciences. Volume 19 | Issue 5 | page 65.
^ "Midsummer Night's Dream, Act V, Scene 1 :|: Open Source Shakespeare". www.opensourceshakespeare.org. Retrieved 24 November 2020.
^ Shilton, Lynda Hawryluk and Leni (22 July 2014). "Negotiating 'negative capability' : The role of place in writing for two Australian poets". www.axonjournal.com.au. Retrieved 11 December 2020.
Foundation, Poetry (9 December 2020). "Selections from Keats's Letters by John Keats". Poetry Foundation. Retrieved 10 December 2020.
Foundation, Poetry (10 December 2020). "The Study of Poetry by Matthew Arnold". Poetry Foundation. Retrieved 11 December 2020.
Another explanation of the word negative relies on hypothesising that Keats was influenced in his studies of medicine and chemistry, and that it refers to the negative pole of an electric current which is passive and receptive. In the same way that the negative pole receives the current from the positive pole, the poet receives impulses from a world that is full of mystery and doubt, which cannot be explained but which the poet can translate into art.[13]
"Brain activity and connectivity during poetry composition: Toward a multidimensional model of the creative process"
"John Keats – "The Chameleon Poet" – Letter to Richard Woodhouse, October 27th, 1818"
A. C. Bradley, 'The Letters of Keats' in Oxford Lectures on Poetry (1965[1909])
This page was last edited on 8 March 2023, at 03:21 (UTC).
Wigod, Jacob D. 1952. "Negative Capability and Wise Passiveness". Publications of the Modern Language Association of America. 67 (4): 383–390.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge was, by 1817, a frequent target of criticism by the younger poets of Keats's generation, often ridiculed for his infatuation with German idealistic philosophy.Against Coleridge's obsession with philosophical truth, Keats sets up the model of Shakespeare, whose poetry articulated various points of view and never advocated a particular vision of truth.
^ Wigod, Jacob D. 1952. "Negative Capability and Wise Passiveness." PMLA 67 (4) (1 June): 384–386
Hodgson, John (1999). "An Other Voice: Ventriloquism in the Romantic Period". Romanticism on the Net (16): 0. doi:10.7202/005878ar. ISSN 1467-1255.
^ Keilen, S. (2012). "Dwelling in/on Reading". The Cambridge Quarterly. 41 (2): 279–284. doi:10.1093/camqtly/bfs010.
In 2013 jazz guitarist Bern Nix released an album titled Negative Capability, containing liner notes explaining Keats definition.
^ "Pre-poetry". Youtube. Archived from the original on 11 December 2021. Retrieved 24 November 2020.
"Poem: Marina by T. S. Eliot". www.poetrynook.com. Retrieved 18 November 2020.
"John Keats – "The Chameleon Poet" – Letter to Richard Woodhouse, October 27th, 1818". Genius. Retrieved 9 December 2020.
The twentieth-century British psychoanalyst Wilfred Bion elaborated on Keats's term to illustrate an attitude of openness of mind which he considered of central importance, not only in the psychoanalytic session, but in life itself.[31] For Bion, negative capability was the ability to tolerate the pain and confusion of not knowing, rather than imposing ready-made or omnipotent certainties upon an ambiguous situation or emotional challenge.[32] His idea has been taken up more widely in the British Independent School,[33] as well as elsewhere in psychoanalysis and psychotherapy.[34]
Modern psychological experiments demonstrate that if a composing poet is placed in a functional magnetic resonance imager (fMRI), the initial stage of poetic inspiration relates to something negative: the attenuation of self-monitoring and top-down attention, related to decreases in executive control mediated by deactivation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC).[14] In this sense, Keats might be seen as providing an antidote to E. M. Forster's mantra of 'Only connect...'.[15] Keats might be seen as saying 'Only disconnect...' from our reassuring certainties, from our hyperconnected world, from our executive control, and from our prefrontal cortex.[14][16] 'O for a Life of Sensations rather than of Thoughts!' is how Keats expressed this in a letter to Benjamin Bailey in 1817.[17]
^ Hodgson, John (1999). "An Other Voice: Ventriloquism in the Romantic Period". Romanticism on the Net (16): 0. doi:10.7202/005878ar. ISSN 1467-1255.
Keats's concept of negative capability was little known except to scholars, poets, and other careful readers, until 2 November 2018 when the British singer-songwriter Marianne Faithfull released her album entitled Negative Capability. Then, on 15 November 2020, the BBC aired the second installment of the second series of His Dark Materials based on the trilogy by Philip Pullman, of the same name.[37] Here the idea of negative capability is given great prominence, in what for the BBC was its most lavish production to date. It is presented not as an idea or a theory or a concept or a thesis, but as a mood which the heroine Lyra is able to sink into, and which enables her especial ability to read the rare and beautiful and truth-telling alethiometer.This device, like a nightingale, issues a code that cannot be understood by purely reductive means. Its beauty is part of its truth. Lyra visits the Dark Materials Research Laboratory where she meets the chief researcher, Mary Malone, who, has the uncanny ability to see particles of dark matter, if she puts herself in the right mood. She tells Lyra "you can't see them unless you put your mind in a certain state. Do you know the poet John Keats? He has a phrase for it: negative capability. You have to hold your mind in a state of expectation without impatience..." The implication is that Keats's nightingale[38] is his alethiometer, whose truth, like the truth of poetry itself, is not amenable to any amount of vivisection. Philip Pullman has written that 'many poems are interrogated until they confess, and what they confess is usually worthless, as the results of torture always are: broken little scraps of information, platitudes, banalities'.[39] But if we can follow Lyra and Mary Malone, and put ourselves in the right mood, the dark materials between the lines may become visible or audible. This is the nightingale's code referred to in popular songs such as in one alternate-take version of Bob Dylan's Visions of Johanna[40] and also in the song of the woodthrush in TS Eliot's poem Marina.[41] In the latter's case 'where all the waters meet' is a neat confirmation of the negative polarity view of negative capability alluded to above. It is as if the poet's mind is the negative terminal or the sinkhole in which everything meets and is reconciled. The negativity here depends on the self abnegation of the poet, and its that which allows the current to flow.
Unger, Roberto (1984). Passion: An Essay on Personality. New York: Free Press. ISBN 978-0-02-933120-0.
Joan and Neville Symington, The Clinical Thinking of Wilfrid Bion (1996) p. 169
... that S. H. M. Byers not only coined the phrase "Sherman's March to the Sea", but also wrote Iowa's state song?
Mount Ngauruhoe is a volcanic cone in New Zealand. It is the youngest vent in the Tongariro stratovolcano complex on the Central Plateau of the North Island, and first erupted about 2,500 years ago. Ngauruhoe was New Zealand's most active volcano in the 20th century, with 45 eruptions, the most recent in 1977. This panoramic photograph, taken from Mount Tongariro, shows Mount Ngauruhoe and its surroundings, with Mount Ruapehu in the background.
1967 – British progressive-rock band Pink Floyd released their first single, "Arnold Layne".
... that economist Robin Greenwood's work has been used to suggest the bubble nature of Bitcoin and Tesla, Inc. valuations?
... that Hammersmith by Gustav Holst was acclaimed by Frederick Fennell for having "some of the most treacherous stretches of music making" in band literature?
A train crash in Thessaly, Greece, kills at least 57 people.
Help desk – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia.
Community portal – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements.
James B. Weaver (1833–1912) was a two-time candidate for US president and a congressman from Iowa. After serving in the Union Army in the Civil War, Weaver worked for the election of Republican candidates, but switched to the Greenback Party in 1877, and won election to the House in 1878. The Greenbackers nominated Weaver for president in 1880, but he received only 3.3 percent of the popular vote. He was again elected to the House in 1884 and 1886, where he worked for expansion of the money supply and for the opening of Indian Territory to white settlement. As the Greenback Party fell apart, he helped organize a new left-wing party, the Populists, and was their nominee for president in 1892. This time he gained 8.5 percent of the popular vote and won five states. Several of Weaver's political goals became law after his death, including the direct election of senators and a graduated income tax. (This article is part of a featured topic: 1880 United States presidential election.)
In the Estonian parliamentary election, the Reform Party, led by Kaja Kallas (pictured), wins the most seats in the Riigikogu.
Bola Tinubu, of the ruling All Progressives Congress, is elected President of Nigeria.
Teahouse – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia.
241 BC – The Roman Republic defeated Carthaginian forces at the Battle of the Aegates, off the western coast of Sicily, in the final battle of the First Punic War.
Village pump – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues.
... that former Burmese actress Honey Nway Oo (pictured)turned rebel and took up arms against the military junta following the 2021 Myanmar coup d'état?
Content portals – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia.
At least 67 migrants are killed in a shipwreck off the coast of Calabria, Italy.
This page was last edited on 5 October 2022, at 19:27 (UTC).
... that executives of American Family Corporation learned they "could never be the city's news leader" running an underperforming TV station in Columbus, Georgia?
This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.
1949 – Mildred Gillars, nicknamed Axis Sally, was convicted of treason for working with the Nazis as a broadcaster.
1916 – The final letter in the McMahon–Hussein Correspondence was written, agreeing that Britain would recognise Arab independence in return for the Sharif of Mecca launching a revolt against the Ottoman Empire.
... that Cherry Valentine hid his Romani heritage because he feared he might receive "hate or backlash"?
There are nineteen defunct and relocated National Hockey League (NHL) teams. The NHL Board of Governors review and approve the relocation of any member club. Each team appoints an individual or individuals to represent their team on the Board of Governors. A majority vote is needed for relocation of a club. The first team to relocate was the Quebec Athletics, who relocated to Hamilton, Ontario, to become the Hamilton Tigers. The NHL president at the time, Frank Calder, stripped the franchise from owner Mike Quinn and sold it to a Hamilton-based company. Three franchises became defunct due to the Great Depression: the Philadelphia Quakers, the St. Louis Eagles, and the Montreal Maroons. During their time in the NHL, the defunct Ottawa Senators and Maroons both won the Stanley Cup championship multiple times, with four and two titles respectively. (Full list...)
... that caffoy was a fabric similar to cut silk velvet, made from wool and often used for decorations such as hangings and draperies?
Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects:
Cyclone Freddy leaves at least 29 people dead in Madagascar, Mozambique and Zimbabwe.
2019 – Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 (aircraft pictured) crashed shortly after take-off from Addis Ababa, with the deaths of all 157 people on board.
In George Orwell's book 'Animal Farm' the more intelligent pigs that eventually took over the ruling class at the farm slowly changed the rules written on the side of the barn. By doing it slowly the other animals weren't sure things had changed. They suspected things were amiss, but couldn't really prove it or didn't care.
Wikipedia articles require references, but many of those articles are based on journalism that is actually journavism. Is it part of a conspiracy? Probably not. But activism from any part of the belief spectrum can easily infect the most disciplined journalist, and those individual beliefs flavor many of the articles used as references for Wikipedia articles.
Discuss your options with an expert. Get answers to questions about the best way to proceed, timeline, pricing, and much more.
At Reputation X we can confirm journavism is a real thing that unbalances the online narrative in search, social, and Wikipedia.
Wikipedia has a name for this too - "whitewashing". Wikipedia whitewashing is a somewhat ill defined rule because one persons' whitewashing is another persons "balanced" edit. The problem with this is human bias. Wikipedians are human, therefore imperfect and yet bold with their opinions.
That said, we do not recommend attempting to suppress Wikipedia.
If you don't honestly believe a Wikipedia page will work for your brand, we suggest setting up an entry on a sibling project - WikiData. WikiData is a semi-invisible Wikimedia project that feeds information to search engines and helps make sense of the web to Google, Bing, and others. You can learn more about WikiData here.
Wikipedia shows up in more than half of all Google searches
Remove Online Defamation - Slander - Libel - from the Internet
Note: Reputation X does not directly edit Wikipedia pages. We rely mainly on volunteers to make changes they personally feel have merit. Wikipedia editors we work with have total veto power over the edits they make, and for good reason. Their accounts are real and having them banned would be problematic. See this Wikipedia case study for more information.
There are alternatives to Wikipedia as well, you can check them out here.
Remove Online Defamation - Slander - Libel - from the InternetReadHow to fix a broken online reputationReadHow much does online reputation management cost?ReadHow to survive a reputation crisisReadWhat is reputation PR?ReadHow Fake News and Influencers are Created and PromotedRead
Journavism is a term that we think was coined by Bridget Phetasy. Journavism conflates the words Journalism and Activism. Journavism is what happens when news reporting has been tainted by propaganda - often unintentionally. The problem with journavism is that it lacks the neutrality that information consumers may expect. An article may seem perfect objective at first, but then meanders into opinion. Consequently, journavism is a key ingredient in many dark PR campaigns, conspiracy theories, and opinion pieces masquerading as news.
Removal of journavism references on Wikipedia is tough because the editors who placed the references truly believe the referenced article is pure unadulterated fact, when in fact it's not.
Wikipedia employs a number of tools and techniques to identify users they feel are abusing the system, like sock puppet accounts. A relatively small number of Wikipedia editors have been entrusted with the CheckUser ability. Wikipedia's CheckUser authority allows some editors to see and track the IP addresses of users. This is done to assure that the same person is not using different accounts with the same IP address, a possible sign of manipulation. Of course Wikipedia editors who want to game the system rotate their IP addresses using various tools, or by visiting different coffee shops and using their WiFi.
WikiData - How and Why to Set Up a WikiData Page for Your Brand
The consensus among Wikipedia editors we have interviewed over the years is that there is little that can be done about this bias once the white washing label has been applied even if done so unfairly. Why? Because fairness is subjective.  Shielded by anonymity, roll-backs, biased edits, and banishment are acts of aggression that can be done from the comfort of one's bathroom. One can engage in what's known as a "flame war" - basically a heated Wikipedia argument among editors - but like any argument it can be exhausting. Just try convincing someone to change their mind about the President of the United States.
How To Use Authenticity As A Step To Business Success
Negative Wikipedia articles are a two-sided problem. If there are factual errors or negative "spin" in a Wikipedia page you could simply edit the Wikipedia article yourself, or have someone else do it for you (but choose the right group of editors, not a solo act). Editing the Wikipedia page would instantly change it for the world to see. But if another Wikipedia editor doesn't like your edit, they'll probably just 'roll it back' to its original state and they may even try to ban your account if suspect your account is breaking the rules. No real proof necessary.
Incremental change has proven to work to change a problematic Wikipedia page in many cases. Minor edits by multiple parties to a Wikipedia page over a long period of time often go unnoticed.
The same can be said of Wikipedia editing. When attempting to bring neutrality and balance back to a Wikipedia page, big changes are often noticed, but small changes are noticed less often.
Sometimes Wikipedia articles that should be edited back to balance cannot be because of activist editors, "journavism" based reference articles,  or just plain obstinance. When this is the case, a slow and steady approach works best.
Therefore, even if a significant edit is solid as a rock, it still shouldn't be made all at once. Often the best way to change a Wikipedia page is so simply soften the language bit by bit over time.
It is important to note that changes to Wikipedia must be rational, factual, and defensible. If an edit cannot honestly be defended it shouldn't be made in the first place. But even if an edit is fully compliant with Wikipedia guidelines it can still be challenged or rolled back.
Using different accounts controlled by the same person is a tactic called "sock puppets" by Wikipedia. Needless to say, Wikipedia frowns upon this practice and will ban accounts found, or even suspected, to be sock puppets.
That's right, a high-level Wikipedia editor doesn't need to prove it, they just need to have a suspicion an account is being used for that reason and - bam! - the account is banned. The editor can file a grievance to have their account reinstated, but these requests often, if not nearly always, fall upon deaf ears. At least that's what Wikipedia editors have told us over the years.
Humans have bias built-in. In our experience, Wikipedia editors tend to have a more liberal bias toward certain subjects. For example: if a company at one time had a negative environmental record but no longer does, the addition of positive current information to balance the Wikipedia record is often considered "white washing" and is deleted. The people that do this seem to believe that a person or brand that has made a mistake in the past deserves a life sentence. When this happens the Wikipedia page become mere propaganda and degrades the mission of Wikipedia.
Can Wikipedia be edited by anyone? Yes, anyone can edit a Wikipedia page. But those edits can be positive, negative, or neutral. If your brand, or even you, have been lucky enough to be eligible for a Wikipedia page, good for you! Wikipedia is highly visible in search results, confirms your brand as significant, and even feeds information to Googles' Knowledge Panel. But with all of the good that comes with a Wikipedia page there also comes the bad - again, anyone can edit most Wikipedia pages. Even haters.
In our experience slow and steady wins the race. It won't guarantee success, but it will significantly improve the odds of bringing balance and fairness back to a Wikipedia article.
When a Wikipedia editor selects an article as a reference they are almost always seeing the world through the rose-colored glasses of confirmation bias. Confirmation bias is the tendency for people to believe things they already believe.
