^ McLellan, David (1975). Marx. Glasgow: Fontana. p. 81. ISBN 0-333-63947-2.
The philosopher Ronald Aronson wrote in 2018 that One-Dimensional Man is more prescient than Marcuse could have ever realized and that it is more relevant today than ever.[8]
^ Marcuse, Herbert (1991). One-dimensional Man: Studies in Ideology of Advanced Industrial Society. New York: Routledge. p. 261. ISBN 978-0-415-07429-2.
In modern consumer societies, Marcuse argues that a small number of individuals are empowered to dictate our perceptions of freedom by providing us with opportunities to buy our happiness. [3] In this state of "unfreedom",[4] consumers act irrationally by working more than they are required to in order to fulfill actual basic needs, by ignoring the psychologically destructive effects, by ignoring the waste and environmental damage it causes, and by searching for social connection through material items.[5]
Marcuse strongly criticizes consumerism and modern "industrial society", which he claims is a form of social control. Marcuse argues that while the system we live in may claim to be democratic, it is actually totalitarian. A form of technological rationality has imposed itself on every aspect of culture and public life, and has become hegemonic. Our identification with this hegemonic ideology of modern industrial society, this ideology doesn't only represent a form of "false-conscious", yet rather has succeeded in becoming reality.
Kellner, Douglas (1991). "Introduction to the Second Edition". Herbert Marcuse, One-dimensional Man: Studies in Ideology of Advanced Industrial Society. London: Routledge. pp. xi. ISBN 978-0-415-07429-2.
^ Aronson, R. (2018, November 15). Marcuse Today. Retrieved from http://bostonreview.net/books-ideas/ronald-aronson-herbert-marcuse-one-dimensional-man-today
Modern industrial societies have furthermore created an "affluent society", which in increasing comfort have disguised the exploitative nature of the system, and have therefore strengthened means of domination and control. Modern "affluent society" therefore limits opportunities for political revolution against capitalism.
W. Benjamin, Goethes Wahlverwandtschaften, Gesammelte Schriften I.1, Frankfurt am Main 1991, p. 201.
Marcuse, Herbert (1991). "Introduction to the Second Edition". One-dimensional Man: studies in ideology of advanced industrial society. London: Routledge. p. 3. ISBN 978-0-415-07429-2.
^ Marcuse, Herbert (1991). "Introduction to the Second Edition". One-dimensional Man: studies in ideology of advanced industrial society. London: Routledge. p. 3. ISBN 978-0-415-07429-2.
One-Dimensional Man bolstered Marcuse's fame as a contemporary Western philosopher.[2]
Ushev, Théodore (2008). "Drux Flux". Animated short. National Film Board of Canada. Retrieved 29 December 2009.
McLellan, David (1975). Marx. Glasgow: Fontana. p. 81. ISBN 0-333-63947-2.
The critical theorist Douglas Kellner wrote that One-Dimensional Man was one of the most important books of the 1960s and one of the most subversive books of the twentieth century. Despite its pessimism, represented by the citation of the words of Walter Benjamin at the end of this book that "Nur um der Hoffnungslosen willen ist uns die Hoffnung gegeben"[6] ("It is only for the sake of those without hope that hope is given to us"[7]), it influenced many in the New Left as it articulated their growing dissatisfaction with both capitalist societies and Soviet communist societies.[1]
This page was last edited on 4 January 2023, at 21:47 (UTC).
^ Ushev, Théodore (2008). "Drux Flux". Animated short. National Film Board of Canada. Retrieved 29 December 2009.
Marcuse, Herbert (1991). "Chapter 1". One-dimensional Man: studies in ideology of advanced industrial society. London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-07429-2.
Marcuse, Herbert (1991). "Introduction to the Second Edition". One-dimensional Man: studies in ideology of advanced industrial society. London: Routledge. pp. 1, 7. ISBN 978-0-415-07429-2.
Aronson, R. (2018, November 15). Marcuse Today. Retrieved from http://bostonreview.net/books-ideas/ronald-aronson-herbert-marcuse-one-dimensional-man-today
^ W. Benjamin, Goethes Wahlverwandtschaften, Gesammelte Schriften I.1, Frankfurt am Main 1991, p. 201.
Marcuse, Herbert (1991). One-dimensional Man: Studies in Ideology of Advanced Industrial Society. New York: Routledge. p. 261. ISBN 978-0-415-07429-2.
One-Dimensional Man: Studies in the Ideology of Advanced Industrial Society is a 1964 book by the philosopher and critical theorist Herbert Marcuse, in which the author offers a wide-ranging critique of both contemporary capitalism and the Communist society of the Soviet Union, documenting the parallel rise of new forms of social repression in both these societies, as well as the decline of revolutionary potential in the West. He argues that "advanced industrial society" created false needs, which integrated individuals into the existing system of production and consumption via mass media, advertising, industrial management, and contemporary modes of thought.[1]
This results in a "one-dimensional" universe of thought and behavior, in which aptitude and ability for critical thought and oppositional behavior wither away. Against this prevailing climate, Marcuse promotes the "great refusal" (described at length in the book) as the only adequate opposition to all-encompassing methods of control. Much of the book is a defense of "negative thinking" as a disrupting force against the prevailing positivism.[1]
^ Marcuse, Herbert (1991). "Chapter 1". One-dimensional Man: studies in ideology of advanced industrial society. London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-07429-2.
It is even more irrational in the sense that the creation of new products, calling for the disposal of old products, fuels the economy and encourages the need to work more to buy more. An individual loses his humanity and becomes a tool in the industrial machine and a cog in the consumer machine. Additionally, advertising sustains consumerism, which disintegrates societal demeanor, delivered in bulk and informing the masses that happiness can be bought, an idea that is psychologically damaging.
Marcuse also analyzes the integration of the industrial working class into capitalist society and new forms of capitalist stabilization, thus questioning the Marxian postulates of the revolutionary proletariat and the inevitability of capitalist crisis. In contrast to orthodox Marxism, Marcuse champions non-integrated forces of minorities, outsiders, and radical intelligentsia, attempting to nourish oppositional thought and behavior through promoting radical thinking and opposition. He considers the trends towards bureaucracy in supposedly Marxist countries to be as oppositional to freedom as those in the capitalist West.[1]
Unflattening, a scholarly graphic novel expanding on many ideas from One-Dimensional Man.
^ Marcuse, Herbert (1991). "Introduction to the Second Edition". One-dimensional Man: studies in ideology of advanced industrial society. London: Routledge. pp. 1, 7. ISBN 978-0-415-07429-2.
^ a b c d Kellner, Douglas (1991). "Introduction to the Second Edition". Herbert Marcuse, One-dimensional Man: Studies in Ideology of Advanced Industrial Society. London: Routledge. pp. xi. ISBN 978-0-415-07429-2.
There are alternatives to counter the consumer lifestyle. Anti-consumerism is a lifestyle that demotes any unnecessary consumption, as well as unnecessary work, waste, etc. But even this alternative is complicated by the extreme interpenetration of advertising and commodification because everything is a commodity, even those things that are actual needs.
^ "MathWorld: Dimension". Mathworld.wolfram.com. 2014-02-27. Archived from the original on 2014-03-25. Retrieved 2014-03-03.
^ Fantechi, Barbara (2001), "Stacks for everybody" (PDF), European Congress of Mathematics Volume I, Progr. Math., vol. 201, Birkhäuser, pp. 349–359, archived (PDF) from the original on 2006-01-17
Pickover, Clifford A. (2001). Surfing through Hyperspace: Understanding Higher Universes in Six Easy Lessons. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-992381-6.
2In physics											Toggle In physics subsection																					2.1Spatial dimensions																											2.2Time																											2.3Additional dimensions
FourSpacetimeFourth spatial dimensionConvex regular 4-polytopeQuaternion4-manifoldPolychoronRotations in 4-dimensional Euclidean spaceFourth dimension in artFourth dimension in literature
For any normal topological space X, the Lebesgue covering dimension of X is defined to be the smallest integer n for which the following holds: any open cover has an open refinement (a second open cover in which each element is a subset of an element in the first cover) such that no point is included in more than n + 1 elements. In this case dim X = n. For X a manifold, this coincides with the dimension mentioned above. If no such integer n exists, then the dimension of X is said to be infinite, and one writes dim X = ∞. Moreover, X has dimension −1, i.e. dim X = −1 if and only if X is empty. This definition of covering dimension can be extended from the class of normal spaces to all Tychonoff spaces merely by replacing the term "open" in the definition by the term "functionally open".
The equations used in physics to model reality do not treat time in the same way that humans commonly perceive it. The equations of classical mechanics are symmetric with respect to time, and equations of quantum mechanics are typically symmetric if both time and other quantities (such as charge and parity) are reversed. In these models, the perception of time flowing in one direction is an artifact of the laws of thermodynamics (we perceive time as flowing in the direction of increasing entropy).
For connected differentiable manifolds, the dimension is also the dimension of the tangent vector space at any point.
Two parallel line segmentscan be connected to form a square.
In physics and mathematics, the dimension of a mathematical space (or object) is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to specify any point within it.[1][2] Thus, a line has a dimension of one (1D) because only one coordinate is needed to specify a point on it – for example, the point at 5 on a number line. A surface, such as the boundary of a cylinder or sphere, has a dimension of two (2D) because two coordinates are needed to specify a point on it – for example, both a latitude and longitude are required to locate a point on the surface of a sphere. A two-dimensional Euclidean space is a two-dimensional space on the plane. The inside of a cube, a cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional (3D) because three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces.
Classical physics theories describe three physical dimensions: from a particular point in space, the basic directions in which we can move are up/down, left/right, and forward/backward. Movement in any other direction can be expressed in terms of just these three. Moving down is the same as moving up a negative distance. Moving diagonally upward and forward is just as the name of the direction implies; i.e., moving in a linear combination of up and forward. In its simplest form: a line describes one dimension, a plane describes two dimensions, and a cube describes three dimensions. (See Space and Cartesian coordinate system.)
An algebraic set being a finite union of algebraic varieties, its dimension is the maximum of the dimensions of its components. It is equal to the maximal length of the chains V0⊊V1⊊⋯⊊Vd{\displaystyle V_{0}\subsetneq V_{1}\subsetneq \cdots \subsetneq V_{d}} of sub-varieties of the given algebraic set (the length of such a chain is the number of "⊊{\displaystyle \subsetneq }").
^ Vector Data Models, Essentials of Geographic Information Systems, Saylor Academy, 2012
For the non-free case, this generalizes to the notion of the length of a module.
Beyond the Third Dimension: Geometry, Computer Graphics, and Higher Dimensions
Point (0-dimensional), a single coordinate in a Cartesian coordinate system.
^ Hurewicz, Witold; Wallman, Henry (2015). Dimension Theory (PMS-4), Volume 4. Princeton University Press. p. 24. ISBN 978-1-4008-7566-5. Extract of page 24
A tesseract is an example of a four-dimensional object. Whereas outside mathematics the use of the term "dimension" is as in: "A tesseract has four dimensions", mathematicians usually express this as: "The tesseract has dimension 4", or: "The dimension of the tesseract is 4" or: 4D.
The concept of dimension is not restricted to physical objects. .mw-parser-output .vanchor>:target~.vanchor-text{background-color:#b1d2ff}High-dimensional spaces frequently occur in mathematics and the sciences. They may be Euclidean spaces or more general parameter spaces or configuration spaces such as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian mechanics; these are abstract spaces, independent of the physical space in which we live.
In physics, three dimensions of space and one of time is the accepted norm. However, there are theories that attempt to unify the four fundamental forces by introducing extra dimensions/hyperspace. Most notably, superstring theory requires 10 spacetime dimensions, and originates from a more fundamental 11-dimensional theory tentatively called M-theory which subsumes five previously distinct superstring theories. Supergravity theory also promotes 11D spacetime = 7D hyperspace + 4 common dimensions. To date, no direct experimental or observational evidence is available to support the existence of these extra dimensions. If hyperspace exists, it must be hidden from us by some physical mechanism. One well-studied possibility is that the extra dimensions may be "curled up" at such tiny scales as to be effectively invisible to current experiments.
Every Hilbert space admits an orthonormal basis, and any two such bases for a particular space have the same cardinality. This cardinality is called the dimension of the Hilbert space. This dimension is finite if and only if the space's Hamel dimension is finite, and in this case the two dimensions coincide.
In addition to small and curled up extra dimensions, there may be extra dimensions that instead aren't apparent because the matter associated with our visible universe is localized on a (3 + 1)-dimensional subspace. Thus the extra dimensions need not be small and compact but may be large extra dimensions. D-branes are dynamical extended objects of various dimensionalities predicted by string theory that could play this role. They have the property that open string excitations, which are associated with gauge interactions, are confined to the brane by their endpoints, whereas the closed strings that mediate the gravitational interaction are free to propagate into the whole spacetime, or "the bulk". This could be related to why gravity is exponentially weaker than the other forces, as it effectively dilutes itself as it propagates into a higher-dimensional volume.
—; Stewart, Ian (2008). The Annotated Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions. Basic Books. ISBN 978-0-7867-2183-2.
The dimension of an algebraic variety may be defined in various equivalent ways. The most intuitive way is probably the dimension of the tangent space at any Regular point of an algebraic variety. Another intuitive way is to define the dimension as the number of hyperplanes that are needed in order to have an intersection with the variety that is reduced to a finite number of points (dimension zero). This definition is based on the fact that the intersection of a variety with a hyperplane reduces the dimension by one unless if the hyperplane contains the variety.
The dimension of a vector space is the number of vectors in any basis for the space, i.e. the number of coordinates necessary to specify any vector. This notion of dimension (the cardinality of a basis) is often referred to as the Hamel dimension or algebraic dimension to distinguish it from other notions of dimension.
Lane, Paul M.; Lindquist, Jay D. (May 22, 2015). "Definitions for The Fourth Dimension: A Proposed Time Classification System1".In Bahn, Kenneth D. (ed.). Proceedings of the 1988 Academy of Marketing Science (AMS) Annual Conference. Developments in Marketing Science: Proceedings of the Academy of Marketing Science. Springer International Publishing. pp. 38–46. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-17046-6_8. ISBN 978-3-319-17045-9 – via Springer Link.
Rylov, Yuri A. (2007). "Non-Euclidean method of the generalized geometry construction and its application to space-time geometry". arXiv:math/0702552.
^ Brandenberger, R.; Vafa, C. (1989). "Superstrings in the early universe". Nuclear Physics B. 316 (2): 391–410. Bibcode:1989NuPhB.316..391B. doi:10.1016/0550-3213(89)90037-0.
^ Fractal Dimension Archived 2006-10-27 at the Wayback Machine, Boston University Department of Mathematics and Statistics
The best-known treatment of time as a dimension is Poincaré and Einstein's special relativity (and extended to general relativity), which treats perceived space and time as components of a four-dimensional manifold, known as spacetime, and in the special, flat case as Minkowski space. Time is different from other spatial dimensions as time operates in all spatial dimensions. Time operates in the first, second and third as well as theoretical spatial dimensions such as a fourth spatial dimension. Time is not however present in a single point of absolute infinite singularity as defined as a geometric point, as an infinitely small point can have no change and therefore no time. Just as when an object moves through positions in space, it also moves through positions in time. In this sense the force moving any object to change is time.[7][8][9]
Fractal Dimension Archived 2006-10-27 at the Wayback Machine, Boston University Department of Mathematics and Statistics
Copeland, Ed (2009). "Extra Dimensions". Sixty Symbols. Brady Haran for the University of Nottingham.
Krauss, Lawrence M. (2005). Hiding in the Mirror. Viking Press. ISBN 978-0-670-03395-9.
Banchoff, Thomas F. (1996). Beyond the Third Dimension: Geometry, Computer Graphics, and Higher Dimensions. Scientific American Library. ISBN 978-0-7167-6015-3.
Extra dimensions are said to be universal if all fields are equally free to propagate within them.
Line or Polyline (1-dimensional), usually represented as an ordered list of points sampled from a continuous line, whereupon the software is expected to interpolate the intervening shape of the line as straight or curved line segments.
Abbott, Edwin A. (1884). Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions. London: Seely & Co.—. Flatland: ... Project Gutenberg.—; Stewart, Ian (2008). The Annotated Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions. Basic Books. ISBN 978-0-7867-2183-2.
Kaku, Michio (1994). Hyperspace, a Scientific Odyssey Through the 10th Dimension. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-286189-4.
The dimension of Euclidean n-space En is n. When trying to generalize to other types of spaces, one is faced with the question "what makes Enn-dimensional?" One answer is that to cover a fixed ball in Enby small balls of radius ε, one needs on the order of ε−n such small balls. This observation leads to the definition of the Minkowski dimension and its more sophisticated variant, the Hausdorff dimension, but there are also other answers to that question. For example, the boundary of a ball in Enlooks locally like En-1and this leads to the notion of the inductive dimension. While these notions agree on En, they turn out to be different when one looks at more general spaces.
Surfing through Hyperspace: Understanding Higher Universes in Six Easy Lessons
In 1921, Kaluza–Klein theory presented 5D including an extra dimension of space. At the level of quantum field theory, Kaluza–Klein theory unifies gravity with gauge interactions, based on the realization that gravity propagating in small, compact extra dimensions is equivalent to gauge interactions at long distances. In particular when the geometry of the extra dimensions is trivial, it reproduces electromagnetism. However at sufficiently high energies or short distances, this setup still suffers from the same pathologies that famously obstruct direct attempts to describe quantum gravity. Therefore, these models still require a UV completion, of the kind that string theory is intended to provide. In particular, superstring theory requires six compact dimensions (6D hyperspace) forming a Calabi–Yau manifold. Thus Kaluza-Klein theory may be considered either as an incomplete description on its own, or as a subset of string theory model building.
The dimension of a manifold depends on the base field with respect to which Euclidean space is defined. While analysis usually assumes a manifold to be over the real numbers, it is sometimes useful in the study of complex manifolds and algebraic varieties to work over the complex numbers instead. A complex number (x + iy) has a real part x and an imaginary part y, in which x and y are both real numbers; hence, the complex dimension is half the real dimension.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Curious About Astronomy". Curious.astro.cornell.edu. Archived from the original on 2014-01-11. Retrieved 2014-03-03.
Yau, Shing-Tung; Nadis, Steve (2010). "4. Too Good to be True". The Shape of Inner Space: String Theory and the Geometry of the Universe's Hidden Dimensions. Basic Books. pp. 60–. ISBN 978-0-465-02266-3.
Polygon (2-dimensional), usually represented as a line that closes at its endpoints, representing the boundary of a two-dimensional region. The software is expected to use this boundary to partition 2-dimensional space into an interior and exterior.
Conversely, in algebraically unconstrained contexts, a single complex coordinate system may be applied to an object having two real dimensions. For example, an ordinary two-dimensional spherical surface, when given a complex metric, becomes a Riemann sphere of one complex dimension.[3]
1In mathematics											Toggle In mathematics subsection																					1.1Vector spaces																											1.2Manifolds																								1.2.1Complex dimension																														1.3Varieties																											1.4Krull dimension																											1.5Topological spaces																											1.6Hausdorff dimension																											1.7Hilbert spaces
Surface (3-dimensional), represented using a variety of strategies, such as a polyhedron consisting of connected polygon faces. The software is expected to use this surface to partition 3-dimensional space into an interior and exterior.
A temporal dimension, or time dimension, is a dimension of time. Time is often referred to as the "fourth dimension" for this reason, but that is not to imply that it is a spatial dimension. A temporal dimension is one way to measure physical change. It is perceived differently from the three spatial dimensions in that there is only one of it, and that we cannot move freely in time but subjectively move in one direction.
The Hausdorff dimension is useful for studying structurally complicated sets, especially fractals. The Hausdorff dimension is defined for all metric spaces and, unlike the dimensions considered above, can also have non-integer real values.[6] The box dimension or Minkowski dimension is a variant of the same idea. In general, there exist more definitions of fractal dimensions that work for highly irregular sets and attain non-integer positive real values.
This page was last edited on 5 March 2023, at 18:34 (UTC).
Hurewicz, Witold; Wallman, Henry (2015). Dimension Theory (PMS-4), Volume 4. Princeton University Press. p. 24. ISBN 978-1-4008-7566-5. Extract of page 24
Vector Data Models, Essentials of Geographic Information Systems, Saylor Academy, 2012
The rest of this section examines some of the more important mathematical definitions of dimension.
"MathWorld: Dimension". Mathworld.wolfram.com. 2014-02-27. Archived from the original on 2014-03-25. Retrieved 2014-03-03.
An inductive dimension may be defined inductively as follows. Consider a discrete set of points (such as a finite collection of points) to be 0-dimensional. By dragging a 0-dimensional object in some direction, one obtains a 1-dimensional object. By dragging a 1-dimensional object in a new direction, one obtains a 2-dimensional object. In general one obtains an (n + 1)-dimensional object by dragging an n-dimensional object in a new direction. The inductive dimension of a topological space may refer to the small inductive dimension or the large inductive dimension, and is based on the analogy that, in the case of metric spaces, (n + 1)-dimensional balls have n-dimensional boundaries, permitting an inductive definition based on the dimension of the boundaries of open sets. Moreover, the boundary of a discrete set of points is the empty set, and therefore the empty set can be taken to have dimension -1.[5]
Higher dimensionsin mathematicsOctonionVector spacePlane of rotationCurse of dimensionalityin physicsKaluza–Klein theoryString theoryM-theory
^ Lane, Paul M.; Lindquist, Jay D. (May 22, 2015). "Definitions for The Fourth Dimension: A Proposed Time Classification System1".In Bahn, Kenneth D. (ed.). Proceedings of the 1988 Academy of Marketing Science (AMS) Annual Conference. Developments in Marketing Science: Proceedings of the Academy of Marketing Science. Springer International Publishing. pp. 38–46. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-17046-6_8. ISBN 978-3-319-17045-9 – via Springer Link.
The uniquely defined dimension of every connected topological manifold can be calculated. A connected topological manifold is locally homeomorphic to Euclidean n-space, in which the number n is the manifold's dimension.
^ Yau, Shing-Tung; Nadis, Steve (2010). "4. Too Good to be True". The Shape of Inner Space: String Theory and the Geometry of the Universe's Hidden Dimensions. Basic Books. pp. 60–. ISBN 978-0-465-02266-3.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Curious About Astronomy". Curious.astro.cornell.edu. Archived from the original on 2014-01-11. Retrieved 2014-03-03.
The dimension is an intrinsic property of an object, in the sense that it is independent of the dimension of the space in which the object is or can be embedded. For example, a curve, such as a circle, is of dimension one, because the position of a point on a curve is determined by its signed distance along the curve to a fixed point on the curve. This is independent from the fact that a curve cannot be embedded in a Euclidean space of dimension lower than two, unless it is a line.
In geometric topology, the theory of manifolds is characterized by the way dimensions 1 and 2 are relatively elementary, the high-dimensional cases n > 4 are simplified by having extra space in which to "work"; and the cases n = 3 and 4 are in some senses the most difficult. This state of affairs was highly marked in the various cases of the Poincaré conjecture, in which four different proof methods are applied.
Although the notion of higher dimensions goes back to René Descartes, substantial development of a higher-dimensional geometry only began in the 19th century, via the work of Arthur Cayley, William Rowan Hamilton, Ludwig Schläfli and Bernhard Riemann. Riemann's 1854 Habilitationsschrift, Schläfli's 1852 Theorie der vielfachen Kontinuität, and Hamilton's discovery of the quaternions and John T. Graves' discovery of the octonions in 1843 marked the beginning of higher-dimensional geometry.
"The Space-Time Manifold of Relativity. The Non-Euclidean Geometry of Mechanics and Electromagnetics"
Similarly, for the class of CW complexes, the dimension of an object is the largest n for which the n-skeleton is nontrivial. Intuitively, this can be described as follows: if the original space can be continuously deformed into a collection of higher-dimensional triangles joined at their faces with a complicated surface, then the dimension of the object is the dimension of those triangles.[citation needed]
^ Wilson, Edwin B.; Lewis, Gilbert N. (1912). "The Space-Time Manifold of Relativity. The Non-Euclidean Geometry of Mechanics and Electromagnetics". Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 48 (11): 389–507. doi:10.2307/20022840. JSTOR 20022840 – via JSTOR.
Rucker, Rudy (2014) [1984]. The Fourth Dimension: Toward a Geometry of Higher Reality. Courier Corporation. ISBN 978-0-486-77978-2. Google preview
"Definitions for The Fourth Dimension: A Proposed Time Classification System1"
The Krull dimension of a commutative ring is the maximal length of chains of prime ideals in it, a chain of length n being a sequence P0⊊P1⊊⋯⊊Pn{\displaystyle {\mathcal {P}}_{0}\subsetneq {\mathcal {P}}_{1}\subsetneq \cdots \subsetneq {\mathcal {P}}_{n}} of prime ideals related by inclusion. It is strongly related to the dimension of an algebraic variety, because of the natural correspondence between sub-varieties and prime ideals of the ring of the polynomials on the variety.
In classical mechanics, space and time are different categories and refer to absolute space and time. That conception of the world is a four-dimensional space but not the one that was found necessary to describe electromagnetism. The four dimensions (4D) of spacetime consist of events that are not absolutely defined spatially and temporally, but rather are known relative to the motion of an observer. Minkowski space first approximates the universe without gravity; the pseudo-Riemannian manifolds of general relativity describe spacetime with matter and gravity. 10 dimensions are used to describe superstring theory (6D hyperspace + 4D), 11 dimensions can describe supergravity and M-theory (7D hyperspace + 4D), and the state-space of quantum mechanics is an infinite-dimensional function space.
For an algebra over a field, the dimension as vector space is finite if and only if its Krull dimension is 0.
Wilson, Edwin B.; Lewis, Gilbert N. (1912). "The Space-Time Manifold of Relativity. The Non-Euclidean Geometry of Mechanics and Electromagnetics". Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 48 (11): 389–507. doi:10.2307/20022840. JSTOR 20022840 – via JSTOR.
Murty, Katta G. (2014). "1. Systems of Simultaneous Linear Equations" (PDF). Computational and Algorithmic Linear Algebra and n-Dimensional Geometry. World Scientific Publishing. doi:10.1142/8261. ISBN 978-981-4366-62-5.
^ Scott Watson, Brane Gas Cosmology Archived 2014-10-27 at the Wayback Machine (pdf).
^ Rylov, Yuri A. (2007). "Non-Euclidean method of the generalized geometry construction and its application to space-time geometry". arXiv:math/0702552.
Scott Watson, Brane Gas Cosmology Archived 2014-10-27 at the Wayback Machine (pdf).
Each variety can be considered as an algebraic stack, and its dimension as variety agrees with its dimension as stack. There are however many stacks which do not correspond to varieties, and some of these have negative dimension. Specifically, if V is a variety of dimension m and G is an algebraic group of dimension n acting on V, then the quotient stack [V/G] has dimension m − n.[4]
Several types of digital systems are based on the storage, analysis, and visualization of geometric shapes, including illustration software, Computer-aided design, and Geographic information systems. Different vector systems use a wide variety of data structures to represent shapes, but almost all are fundamentally based on a set of geometric primitives corresponding to the spatial dimensions:[12]
Brandenberger, R.; Vafa, C. (1989). "Superstrings in the early universe". Nuclear Physics B. 316 (2): 391–410. Bibcode:1989NuPhB.316..391B. doi:10.1016/0550-3213(89)90037-0.
Fantechi, Barbara (2001), "Stacks for everybody" (PDF), European Congress of Mathematics Volume I, Progr. Math., vol. 201, Birkhäuser, pp. 349–359, archived (PDF) from the original on 2006-01-17
Frequently in these systems, especially GIS and Cartography, a representation of a real-world phenomena may have a different (usually lower) dimension than the phenomenon being represented. For example, a city (a two-dimensional region) may be represented as a point, or a road (a three-dimensional volume of material) may be represented as a line. This dimensional generalization correlates with tendencies in spatial cognition. For example, asking the distance between two cities presumes a conceptual model of the cities as points, while giving directions involving travel "up," "down," or "along" a road imply a one-dimensional conceptual model. This is frequently done for purposes of data efficiency, visual simplicity, or cognitive efficiency, and is acceptable if the distinction between the representation and the represented is understood, but can cause confusion if information users assume that the digital shape is a perfect representation of reality (i.e., believing that roads really are lines).
... that S. H. M. Byers not only coined the phrase "Sherman's March to the Sea", but also wrote Iowa's state song?
Mount Ngauruhoe is a volcanic cone in New Zealand. It is the youngest vent in the Tongariro stratovolcano complex on the Central Plateau of the North Island, and first erupted about 2,500 years ago. Ngauruhoe was New Zealand's most active volcano in the 20th century, with 45 eruptions, the most recent in 1977. This panoramic photograph, taken from Mount Tongariro, shows Mount Ngauruhoe and its surroundings, with Mount Ruapehu in the background.
1967 – British progressive-rock band Pink Floyd released their first single, "Arnold Layne".
... that economist Robin Greenwood's work has been used to suggest the bubble nature of Bitcoin and Tesla, Inc. valuations?
... that Hammersmith by Gustav Holst was acclaimed by Frederick Fennell for having "some of the most treacherous stretches of music making" in band literature?
A train crash in Thessaly, Greece, kills at least 57 people.
Help desk – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia.
Community portal – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements.
James B. Weaver (1833–1912) was a two-time candidate for US president and a congressman from Iowa. After serving in the Union Army in the Civil War, Weaver worked for the election of Republican candidates, but switched to the Greenback Party in 1877, and won election to the House in 1878. The Greenbackers nominated Weaver for president in 1880, but he received only 3.3 percent of the popular vote. He was again elected to the House in 1884 and 1886, where he worked for expansion of the money supply and for the opening of Indian Territory to white settlement. As the Greenback Party fell apart, he helped organize a new left-wing party, the Populists, and was their nominee for president in 1892. This time he gained 8.5 percent of the popular vote and won five states. Several of Weaver's political goals became law after his death, including the direct election of senators and a graduated income tax. (This article is part of a featured topic: 1880 United States presidential election.)
In the Estonian parliamentary election, the Reform Party, led by Kaja Kallas (pictured), wins the most seats in the Riigikogu.
Bola Tinubu, of the ruling All Progressives Congress, is elected President of Nigeria.
Teahouse – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia.
241 BC – The Roman Republic defeated Carthaginian forces at the Battle of the Aegates, off the western coast of Sicily, in the final battle of the First Punic War.
Village pump – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues.
... that former Burmese actress Honey Nway Oo (pictured)turned rebel and took up arms against the military junta following the 2021 Myanmar coup d'état?
Content portals – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia.
At least 67 migrants are killed in a shipwreck off the coast of Calabria, Italy.
This page was last edited on 5 October 2022, at 19:27 (UTC).
... that executives of American Family Corporation learned they "could never be the city's news leader" running an underperforming TV station in Columbus, Georgia?
This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.
1949 – Mildred Gillars, nicknamed Axis Sally, was convicted of treason for working with the Nazis as a broadcaster.
1916 – The final letter in the McMahon–Hussein Correspondence was written, agreeing that Britain would recognise Arab independence in return for the Sharif of Mecca launching a revolt against the Ottoman Empire.
... that Cherry Valentine hid his Romani heritage because he feared he might receive "hate or backlash"?
There are nineteen defunct and relocated National Hockey League (NHL) teams. The NHL Board of Governors review and approve the relocation of any member club. Each team appoints an individual or individuals to represent their team on the Board of Governors. A majority vote is needed for relocation of a club. The first team to relocate was the Quebec Athletics, who relocated to Hamilton, Ontario, to become the Hamilton Tigers. The NHL president at the time, Frank Calder, stripped the franchise from owner Mike Quinn and sold it to a Hamilton-based company. Three franchises became defunct due to the Great Depression: the Philadelphia Quakers, the St. Louis Eagles, and the Montreal Maroons. During their time in the NHL, the defunct Ottawa Senators and Maroons both won the Stanley Cup championship multiple times, with four and two titles respectively. (Full list...)
... that caffoy was a fabric similar to cut silk velvet, made from wool and often used for decorations such as hangings and draperies?
Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects:
Cyclone Freddy leaves at least 29 people dead in Madagascar, Mozambique and Zimbabwe.
2019 – Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 (aircraft pictured) crashed shortly after take-off from Addis Ababa, with the deaths of all 157 people on board.
