See e.g. G. Richard Shell, "Opportunism and trust in the Negotiation of Commercial Contracts: Toward a New Cause of Action." Vanderbilt Law Review, Vol. 44, March 1991, pp. 221-282.
See e.g. Psychology of the Private Individual: Critique of Bourgeois Consciousness. Gegenstandpunkt, 2009 [13]
^ An example is Robert M. Price, Top Secret: The Truth Behind Today’s Pop Mysticisms. Prometheus Books, 2008
The intellectual opportunist adapts his intellectual concerns, pursuits and utterances to "fit with the trend/fashion" or "fit the situation" or "with what sells" – with the (ulterior) motive of gaining personal popularity/support, protecting intellectual coherence, obtaining personal credit, acquiring privilege or status, persuading others, ingratiating himself, taking advantage or making money. Normally this assumes some degree of intellectual flexibility, agility or persuasiveness.
Regulating all the conflicting interests and values, the capitalist state enforces the constraints of a legal system, but this legal system splits moral value and economic value into separate compartments, as well as splitting public and private spheres.[41] While it formally regards all citizens as equal and free, in reality people are very unequally positioned with respect to their social status, power, knowledge and wealth, and consequently also their freedoms. Information asymmetry is not simply a problem in trade, but occurs in every sphere of life, and thus some capitalize on the ignorance of others.[42]
^ Michael Ruse, The Oxford handbook of philosophy of biology. Oxford University Press, 2008, p. 199.
Kurt Eggert, "Limiting abuse and opportunism by mortgage servicers". In: Housing Policy Debate (Fannie Mae Foundation), Vol. 15, Issue 3, 2004."Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-05-15. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
shirking, involving some kind of negligence, or failure to acquit oneself of duty (or a responsibility) previously agreed or implied (see also efficiency wages).
In transaction cost economics, opportunism means self-interest seeking with guile, involving some kind of deliberate deceit and the absence of moral restraint. It could involve deliberately withholding or distorting important business information, shirking (doing less work than agreed), or failing to fulfill formal or informal promises and obligations. It occurs in trading activities especially where rules and sanctions are lacking, and where the opportunist actor has great power to influence an outcome by the attitude he assumes in practice. However, others[32] argue that this reflects a narrow view of economic opportunism, because there are many more ways that economic actors can take selfish advantage of other economic actors, even if they do not violate the law.[33] The critics of opportunism also note that opportunism is a hard to capture concept in empirical studies. Individuals are unlikely to answer truthfully questions about opportunism that makes an “unflattering behavioral assumption” (Williamson, 1995, p. 29) about how individuals behave when transacting.[34]
Opportunist behavior is also strongly influenced by the organizational context in which it occurs.
^ Reinhard Bachmann and Akbar Zaheer (eds.), Handbook of trust research. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, 2006, p. 201.
^ See e.g. Heide Gerstenberger, Impersonal Power: History and theory of the bourgeois state. Haymarket Books, 2009.
Although in many societies opportunism often has a strong negative moral connotation, it may also be defined more neutrally as putting self-interest before other interests when there is an opportunity to do so, or flexibly adapting to changing circumstances to maximize self-interest (though usually in a way that negates some principle previously followed).
Advantages: the prevalence of opportunist behavior is likely to be influenced by the perception that the pay-off or advantage of engaging in it, outweighs possible disadvantages or penalties. Opportunism is facilitated if the situation permits an actor to appropriate the gains or advantages to be had from activity to themselves while shifting the costs, blame and disadvantages to others. This may be regarded as unfair competition.
E.g. As'ad AbuKhalil, "Yusuf Al-Qaradawi and Political Opportunism". Al Alakhbar English, 28 March 2012.[6] Archived 2014-02-09 at the Wayback Machine
Shraga F. Biran, Opportunism: How to Change the World--One Idea at a Time. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2011.
^ Brunner, Othmar A (2019). ihuman. Writers Republic LLC. p. 380. ISBN 9781646200290.
^ See Karl Marx, Capital Volume 3. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1981.
are made to serve partisan interests, contrary to the real intention of the beliefs.
4Human behaviour											Toggle Human behaviour subsection																					4.1Eight main contexts																											4.2Five main organizational influences
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Opportunism".
Capitalist society constantly reorganizes the structure of human cooperation, so that, more and more, people produce things they do not need themselves, or that are surplus to their own requirements, and can therefore be appropriated by others for personal gain. This causes alienation, and it creates a specific motivational structure. It promotes an inability to respond adequately to the needs of others except in the form of self-interested trade-offs.[38]
refuse to take a risk that would reduce the influence, support, wealth or popularity, even although taking the risk is consistent with the principles the person or group uphold.
Thus, the opportunity exploited for selfish ends can itself exist either because an action is taken, or because of deliberate inaction (when action should really have been taken). The propensity to engage in such kinds of behaviours depends a great deal on the presence or absence of personal characteristics such as integrity, moral character, personal insight or self-awareness, personal flexibility and balance. It also depends on the ability to judge the consequences of different courses of action correctly. Strong emotions and desires may also play a role, and much may depend on how permissive a person, group or organization is (see permissive society). These factors influence the capacity to know "where to draw the line" appropriately, and regulate one's own behavior so that it remains consistent. Much also depends on the beliefs people happen to have about themselves and the world they live in, and on the morale of an organization.
^ See e.g. V.I. Lenin, "Opportunism, and the Collapse of the Second International", 1915. V.I Lenin
Awareness: if people are for some or other reason deceiving themselves about the real consequences of their actions, they are more likely to initiate or condone opportunist behaviour; if they were more aware, that wouldn't happen to the same extent. Opportunism is facilitated if for any reason there is a low level of awareness that it is happening. Perceptions of the strengths and vulnerabilities of others and oneself may play an important role.
Capitalist society is itself founded on the exploitation of the labour of others and on unequal exchange. This is enabled by the ownership or control of assets, money and credit that investors use to extract unearned income from the work of others who have to sell their work capacity to survive. It makes it possible for private owners of capital to claim more resources than they have themselves produced or contributed to society. Owning property is rewarded more and more, and working to create it is rewarded less and less.[40]
Salomone, A. William (October 1962). "The Risorgimento between Ideology and History: The Political Myth of rivoluzione mancata". The American Historical Review. 68 (1): 38–56. doi:10.2307/1847182. JSTOR 1847182.
Rationale: much depends on whether the organization really has a principled basis for its activities to start out with (a clearly defined, agreed understanding about the relationship between goals and the means to achieve them). Lacking such a principled foundation, the organization may find itself constantly trying to compensate for both opportunist errors and factional errors.
^ The quotation is attributed to Baldwin, according to a Penguin Dictionary of Quotations, but the exact source is unclear.
Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style.
Williamson, Oliver E. (1995). "Hierarchies, Markets and Power in the Economy : An Economic Perspective". Industrial and Corporate Change. 4: 21–49. doi:10.1093/icc/4.1.21.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"Opportunism".
^ Timmermans, Elisabeth; Van den Bulck, Jan (2018). "Casual Sexual Scripts on the Screen: A Quantitative Content Analysis". Archives of Sexual Behavior. 47 (5): 1481–1496. doi:10.1007/s10508-018-1147-1. ISSN 0004-0002. PMC 5954064. PMID 29589163.
^ See e.g. G. Richard Shell, "Opportunism and trust in the Negotiation of Commercial Contracts: Toward a New Cause of Action." Vanderbilt Law Review, Vol. 44, March 1991, pp. 221-282.
In game theory, opportunism concerns the contradictory relationships between altruistic and self-interested behaviour, where the different kinds of common and sectional interests existing in a situation are used mainly to make gains for oneself. If some actors in a game are placed at a disadvantage in some way, for any reason, it becomes an opportunity for other actors to capitalize on that fact, by using the disadvantage of others to improve their own position – under conditions where actors both compete and cooperate in different areas. Two classic cases discussed in game theory where opportunism is often involved are the free rider problem and the prisoner's dilemma.[35] In this game-theoretical sense, Paul Seabright defines opportunism as "the behaviour of those who seek to benefit from the efforts of others without contributing anything themselves."[36] Game theory can, for example, model the effects of information asymmetry, where people have unequal access to relevant information, so that those who "do know" can take advantage of those who "don't know".
^ Borzou Daragahi, "Libya: Back to the bad old ways". Financial times, February 16, 2012.
If a religious authority acquires influence over the "hearts and minds" of people who are believers in a religion, and therefore can "tap into" the most intimate and deepest-felt concerns of believers, it can also gain immense power from that. This power can be used in a self-interested manner, exploiting opportunities to benefit the position of the religious authority or its supporters in society. This could be considered as inconsistent with the real intentions of the religious belief, or it might show lack of respect for the spiritual autonomy of others. The "good faith" of people is then taken advantage of, in ways that involve some kind of deceit, or some dubious, selfish motive.
"I would rather be an opportunist and float than go to the bottom with my principles around my neck" – Stanley Baldwin[11]
a trend of thought, or a political tendency, seeking to make political capital out of situations with the main aim being that of gaining more influence, prestige or support, instead of truly winning people over to a principled position or improving their political understanding.
Although people necessarily have to cooperate to survive, the way they go about this is highly contradictory, and involves "character masks", because there is also constant competition among individuals, businesses and social classes for money, power and prestige. They all have different interests, and are likely to take advantage of others, when they sense they can get away with it. This competition is rarely a level playing field.[39]
^ Bartareau, T. (1996). "Foraging Behaviour of Trigona Carbonaria (Hymenoptera: Apidae) at Multiple-Choice Feeding Stations". Australian Journal of Zoology. 44 (2): 143. doi:10.1071/zo9960143.
^ In his book Self-policing in politics: the political economy of reputational controls on politicians (Princeton University Press, 2004, p.21).
refuse to respond to an opportunity, only because responding to it might forfeit influence, support, wealth or popularity, even although taking the opportunity would in truth be consistent with the principles being subscribed to.
Nicolai J. Foss and Peter G. Klein, "Critiques of transaction cost economics: An overview". Organizations and markets, September 2009 [11]
The term "opportunism" is often used in politics and political science, and by activists campaigning for a cause. The political philosophy of Niccolò Machiavelli as described in The Prince is often regarded as a classic manual of opportunist scheming.[22] Political opportunism is interpreted in different ways, but usually refers to one or more of the following:
See e.g. Caroline B. Glick, "Column one: Israel's premier opportunist". In: Jerusalem Post, 22 July 2011.[5]
Opportunism or "opportunistic behaviour" is an important concept in such fields of study as biology, transaction cost economics, game theory, ethics, psychology, sociology and politics.
^ "See e.g. Elif Çağlı, "A Dangerous Tendency: Opportunism"". Archived from the original on 2010-08-16. Retrieved 2010-07-11.
Damian Saunders, "Mark Hurd and HP, economic opportunism and greed, one year on." Opinion, 30 January 2010.[8] Dan Ackman, "Kozlowski Speaks!". Forbes Magazine, 28 April 2005.[9] Ken Frost, "The Ongoing Trials of The Late Michael Jackson: Greed and Opportunism." 2 February 2005.[10]
^ See e.g. Caroline B. Glick, "Column one: Israel's premier opportunist". In: Jerusalem Post, 22 July 2011.[5]
Walker, Thomas; Turtle, Harry; Pukthuantthong, Kuntara; Thiengtham, Dolruedee (February 2015). "Legal opportunism, litigation risk, and IPO underpricing". Journal of Business Research. 68 (2): 326–340. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2014.06.025. S2CID 14929631. Retrieved May 6, 2022.
The quotation is attributed to Baldwin, according to a Penguin Dictionary of Quotations, but the exact source is unclear.
Resources: if a new bonanza (an abundantly available resource, or market) is discovered, accessible or opened up, people may try to "grab what they can" without regard to the consequences for others, perhaps with the thought that if they do not avail themselves of this opportunity, others will (and that if others do, it disadvantages them). Examples might be a gold rush and the tragedy of the commons. In this case, opportunist behavior may be facilitated, especially if precise rules for how a resource should be distributed are lacking, or if it is unclear who really owns it, or if proper use cannot be enforced.[13]
Market trade is compatible with a great variety of moral norms, religions, and political systems, and indeed supporters of the free market claim that this is exactly its advantage: people can choose their own values, buying and selling as they wish within a basic legal framework accepted by all.[27] People would not normally trade, if they did not expect to gain something by it; the fact that they do trade normally presupposes at least a respect for the basic rights of the party being traded with. Nevertheless, the gains or benefits of trading activity (and indeed the losses), although entirely legal, might be distributed very unequally or in ways not anticipated by previous understandings, and thus accusations of "economic opportunism" can arise nevertheless in many different settings.[28] If this is the case, relevant trading obligations (or civil obligations) are usually considered as not being (fully) met or honored, in the pursuit of economic self-interest. Greed is frequently mentioned as a primary motive for economic opportunism.[29]
See e.g. Heide Gerstenberger, Impersonal Power: History and theory of the bourgeois state. Haymarket Books, 2009.
Provided and shared only because of their cooperation, or being together.
believing that there is much more at work behind the scenes for the combining of alliances, making of pacts and signing of agreements for a cause.
Borzou Daragahi, "Libya: Back to the bad old ways". Financial times, February 16, 2012.
"See e.g. Elif Çağlı, "A Dangerous Tendency: Opportunism"". Archived from the original on 2010-08-16. Retrieved 2010-07-11.
"The World That Never Was: A True Story of Schemers, Anarchists, and Secret Agents", p. 153,Alex Butterworth, Vintage, 2010, ISBN 9780099551928
See further Kuntara Pukthuanthong and Harry J. Turtle, "Legal Opportunism, Litigation Risk, and IPO Underpricing", January 2009 "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-05-17. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link); Paul J. Zak (ed.), Moral markets: the critical role of values in the economy. Princeton University Press, 2008.
Human opportunism should not be confused with "seeking opportunities", or "making use of opportunities when they arise". Opportunism refers to a specific way of responding to opportunities, which involves the element of self-interestedness and disregard for relevant (ethical) principles, or for intended or previously agreed goals, or for the shared concerns of a group.[4]
Norms and values: behavior that some organizations regard as "opportunist" may be perfectly acceptable in others, or tolerated as normal. Sometimes expectations of behavior are made explicit by the organization with the aid of formal rules communicated to members. Sometimes they are only implicit and informal - possibly because formal rules are not easy to formulate, or to enforce, or because it is assumed that members understand and share relevant norms and values.
Karl Marx provided no substantive theory of opportunism; insofar as he used the term, he meant a tactic of convenience or expediency used for self-serving motives, involving some or other kind of political, economic or intellectual trick.Nevertheless, some Marxists[who?] claim that Marx's theory of capitalism does imply a substantive theory of opportunism.[dubious– discuss] Its main claim is that opportunism is not simply an aberration or impediment to the efficient functioning of capitalism, but an integral and necessary characteristic of it; capitalist market activity promotes opportunist moves in all sorts of ways.Five kinds of factors are usually cited:
Power: according to Lord Acton's famous dictum, "all power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely". If there are only weak sanctions against unprincipled behavior, this creates a setting where opportunist behavior can flourish, and if the positions of people are very unequal (in terms of power, wealth, status, knowledge or strength) the possibility exists that some will take advantage of the disadvantage of others.
^ "Government's sudden need to debate terror bill smacks of opportunism", The Globe and Mail, 22 April 2013.[3]
The sociology and psychology of human opportunism is related to the study of gambling behavior, and what kind of motivation and organizational culture is involved. Both the element of risk and opportunity play a role. To be opportunist in behavior, a person or group must:
Pierre Broué, The German revolution 1917-1923. Leiden: Brill, 2005, p. 55-56.
Personalities and beliefs are shaped by the specific environment where they form. It is likely that the possibilities for opportunist behavior are promoted in contexts where there is not only an incentive to engage in them, but also where it is also extremely difficult for some reason to remain behaviourally consistent, or where ordinary constraints on behavior are lacking. In that case, opportunist behavior does not seem to have much adverse effect or consequence, at least in the short term, compared to the much greater benefits of engaging in it. Eight main contexts are referred to in the literature:
In Latin, opportunus means opportune or favourable (opportunitas = opportunity); the word itself is a contraction of ob portus ("toward the harbour/entrance") or oppositum portus ("facing the harbour/entrance").
Paul Seabright, The company of strangers: a natural history of economic life. Princeton University Press, 2004, p. 5.[12]
^ Richard Swedberg, interview with Kenneth Arrow, in: Richard Swedberg, Economics and Sociology. Redefining their boundaries: conversations with economists and sociologists. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1990, p. 137.
Spiritual opportunism refers to the exploitation of spiritual ideas (or of the spirituality of others, or of spiritual authority): for personal gain, partisan interests or selfish motives. Usually the implication is that doing so is unprincipled in some way, although it may cause no harm and involve no abuse. In other words, religion becomes a means to achieve something that is alien to it, or things are projected into religion that do not belong there.
are not an organic, sincere or authentic expression of the real nature of the people who contrived them.
An opportunist's motive always involves an element of selfishness.[12] Psychologically, it follows that opportunism always assumes a basic ability to make one's own choices, and decide to act in a way that serves one's own interest. In turn, that presupposes at least some basic self-motivation, inner direction, inventiveness, and behavioral freedom; subjectively, an opportunist must at least be able to recognize and respond to opportunities when they are there.
"Casual Sexual Scripts on the Screen: A Quantitative Content Analysis"
^ See Karl Marx, Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts 1844. Moscow: Progress Publishers, 1959.
a political style of aiming to increase one's political influence at almost any price, or a political style that involves seizing every and any opportunity to extend political influence, whenever such opportunities arise.
last-period exploitation, when it is known that competitors or stakeholders are not able to respond to a suitably timed selfish action.
Social opportunism refers to the use of opportunities for social contact only for selfish purposes or motives. Because it is only selfish, the implication is usually that obligations to other participants in the given social setting are not (fully) met or honoured. The social opportunist participates in a group, cooperates with it or associates with it, not primarily because he wants to "contribute", give or share something to the group, or because he values being part of it as an intrinsic good, but only because he wants to get some advantage out of the participation for himself. Consequently, the participation by the opportunist is substantively only a "means" that serves some other, selfish purpose. This may be tolerated, to the extent that the selfish purpose of the opportunist is compatible with, or does not conflict with, the goals and intentions of the group. It may be regarded as undesirable and unwanted, or indeed a breach of trust or good faith, if that is not the case.
Purpose: the scope for opportunism depends very much on the nature and goals of the organization itself, and on the strength and integrity of its leadership. If for example, the organization sets itself the task to exploit risks and opportunities to advantage, then no matter what its size is, it tends to facilitate opportunist behavior. If, on the other hand, the aim of the organization is to carefully conserve a state of affairs or belief system, this is much less likely to attract opportunists.
having experiencing suffering for a political cause, without real political positions and/or beliefs being revealed in the process, though with or without critique.[23]
E.g. Donald L. Luskin, "Newt's Bain Opportunism Is Mitt's Opportunity". Wall Street Journal, 17 January 2012.[1]
Criticism of opportunism usually refers to a situation where beliefs and principles are tested or challenged.
The term spiritual opportunism is also used in the sense of casting around for suitable spiritual beliefsborrowed and cobbled together in some way to justify, condemn or "make sense of" particular ways of behaving, usually with some partisan or ulterior motive. This may not be abusive, but it often gives rise to criticisms or accusations[49] that the given spiritual beliefs:
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Opportunism" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
In the theory of evolution, "evolutionary opportunism" refers to a specific pattern of development in the history of a species. The behavior, culture or body part of a species that long ago evolved to serve a particular purpose or function may subsequently lend itself to a verydifferent positive purpose or function that helps the species to survive.[20] Thus, in a new stage of evolution, a long-existing behavior, culture, or physical characteristic can respond to a wholly new opportunity and acquire a new role. It turns out to have new advantages or potential benefits the species previously never used—and, therefore, the species retains an adaptation even if the original purpose it served is long gone.
The practice of abandoning or compromising, in reality, some important political principles that were previously held, in the process of trying to increase one's political power and influence.
Opportunism is the practice of taking advantage of circumstances – with little regard for principles or with what the consequences are for others. Opportunist actions are expedient actions guided primarily by self-interested motives. The term can be applied to individual humans and living organisms, groups, organizations, styles, behaviors, and trends.
^ Louise Lucas and Andrew Bounds, "Unilever's pension move prompts strike". Financial Times, December 9, 2011.
Opportunism is sometimes defined as the ability to capitalize on the mistakes of others: to exploit opportunities created by the errors, weaknesses or distractions of opponents to one's own advantage.[2]
^ See: Samuel Bowles, Richard Edwards and Frank Roosevelt, Understanding Capitalism: Competition, Command and Change. Oxford University Press, 3rd edition, 2005.
lack any deeper principled foundation, and are more an "eclectic, self-serving concoction"
^ Walker, Thomas; Turtle, Harry; Pukthuantthong, Kuntara; Thiengtham, Dolruedee (February 2015). "Legal opportunism, litigation risk, and IPO underpricing". Journal of Business Research. 68 (2): 326–340. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2014.06.025. S2CID 14929631. Retrieved May 6, 2022.
Legal opportunism is a term coined in a 2015 article in the Journal of Business Research to describe litigation following an IPO to recover potential losses after negative stock developments, regardless of the legal merits of the claim.[48]
^ Graham Scambler, "Sex Work Stigma: Opportunist Migrants in London".Sociology,vol. 41, no. 6, December 2007, pp. 1079-1096.
Pierpont, Claudia Roth (8 September 2008). "The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule". www.newyorker.com. Retrieved 5 June 2019.
See e.g. V.I. Lenin, "Opportunism, and the Collapse of the Second International", 1915. V.I Lenin
Controls: some organizations may have a code of behavior or set of rules that makes opportunist behavior difficult because organizational policy sets clear and immediate penalties for such behavior. Other organizations may be so loosely structured and so lacking in controls and sanctions regulating behaviour, that opportunism becomes almost unavoidable.
Success: opportunism often involves the presence of a very strong desire to be popular, to exercise influence or to succeed in making gains. That motivation can promote the urge to win something "by any means necessary", even if it means to "cut corners" and do things not consistent with relevant principles. If people are for some reason motivated "to do anything at all to achieve success", they are more likely to engage in opportunist behavior for that very reason.
^ Luke Johnson, "A new lexicon to celebrate capitalism", Financial Times, October 25, 2011.
Bogdan Mieczkowski, Dysfunctional Bureaucracy: A Comparative and Historical Perspective. Lanham,Maryland: University Press of America, 1991, p. 37.
Some people regard an opportunist stance positively as a legitimate choice. Thus, the British Conservative statesman Stanley Baldwin is supposed to have quipped:[10]
^ Ernest Mandel, "Marx, Engels en het probleem van de zogenaamde 'dubbele moraal'", in: Veelzijdig marxisme, acta van het colloqium “De actualiteit van Karl Marx” – in opdracht van het Instituut voor Marxistische Studies, 1983
In biology, an opportunist organism is generally defined as a species that can live and thrive in variable environmental conditions, and sustain itself from a number of different food sources, or can rapidly take advantage of favorable conditions when they arise, because the species is behaviorally sufficiently flexible. Such species can for example postpone reproduction, or stay dormant, until conditions make growth and reproduction possible. In the biological disciplines, opportunistic behavior is studied in fields such as evolutionary biology, ecology, epidemiology, and etiology, where moral or judgmental overtones do not apply (see also opportunistic pathogens, opportunistic predation, phoresis, and parasitism).
Supporters of traditional religions such as Christianity, Islam, Hinduism or Buddhism sometimes complain that people (such as New Age enthusiasts) seek out spiritual beliefs that serve only themselves, as a form of "spiritual opportunism". Such complaints are often highly controversial, because people are considered to have the right to their own spiritual beliefs (they may not have that right, to the extent that they are socially excluded unless they profess certain spiritual beliefs, but they may only subscribe "formally" or "outwardly" to them).
See Karl Marx, Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts 1844. Moscow: Progress Publishers, 1959.
Thus, to use those resources or contacts for some selfish aim, paradoxically the social opportunist necessarily has to gain entry, join in and participate socially; there is no other way to gain access to or extract what he wants for himself.Some social groupings may welcome social opportunists, because they can serve a useful function, or can be persuaded (perhaps with group pressure) to change their ways through participation. Other social groupings may try to prevent social opportunism, by imposing strict preconditions of participation to ward off opportunists, or with the aid of rules prohibiting opportunist behaviour.
^ Pierpont, Claudia Roth (8 September 2008). "The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule". www.newyorker.com. Retrieved 5 June 2019.
^ "The World That Never Was: A True Story of Schemers, Anarchists, and Secret Agents", p. 153,Alex Butterworth, Vintage, 2010, ISBN 9780099551928
reneging (in contracts), where a contractual agreement, promise, intention or understanding of a deal is not fully honored by a party to the contract, for selfish motives, because it is possible "to get away with it" and/or because there is an incentive to do so.[31]
People can make the most gains at the least cost to themselves.
In opportunism, life is viewed as holding an infinite amount of opportunity, where the pattern of one's responses to each defines their identity. It can also be viewed as striving to realize or express certain principles. However, the moral dilemma implied by opportunism concerns the conflict of self-interest with the interests of others, or with following a principle: either to do what one wants or to do "what is the right thing to do". Thus, substantively, opportunism refers tothe acting on opportunities in a self-interested, biased or one-sided manner that conflicts or contrasts in some way with one or more general rule, law, norm, or principle.
Richard Swedberg, interview with Kenneth Arrow, in: Richard Swedberg, Economics and Sociology. Redefining their boundaries: conversations with economists and sociologists. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1990, p. 137.
Glenn R. Parker[30] claims that the five most discussed examples of economic' opportunism are:
In his book Self-policing in politics: the political economy of reputational controls on politicians (Princeton University Press, 2004, p.21).
According to the Grand Larousse encyclopédique, opportunism was the name given to the cautious reformism and nationalism of French Republicans, who advocated moderate policies to consolidate the French Third Republic after the eviction of the monarchists. The French Opportunists did not call themselves by this name; rather, the term was used by French radicals to describe centrist and center-left politics in the country. Possibly, the term was originally popularized by Victor Henri Rochefort, Marquis de Rochefort-Luçay, who used it in his criticisms of Léon Gambetta.
"In a rational type of analysis it will be said that it is profitable to be trustworthy. So I will be trustworthy because it is profitable to me. But you can't very easily establish trust on a basis like that. If your basis is rational decision and your underlying motive is self-interest, then you can betray your trust at any point when it is profitable and in your interest to do so. Therefore other people can't trust you. For there to be trust, there has to be a social structure which is based on motives different from immediate opportunism."[37]
^ Paul Seabright, The company of strangers: a natural history of economic life. Princeton University Press, 2004, p. 5.[12]
Find sources: "Opportunism" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR
^ Nicolai J. Foss and Peter G. Klein, "Critiques of transaction cost economics: An overview". Organizations and markets, September 2009 [11]
From a game-theoretical perspective, opportunism is objectively a "problem", if the pursuit of self-interest – in conflict with other interests at stake – has an undesirable or unwanted result for some actors or most of them. However, in principle examples could also be constructed where opportunist behaviour unintentionally serves other, broader interests (such as when, in their rush to take selfish advantage of a situation, the opportunist actors create more opportunities for other actors at the same time – the "bandwaggon" or "food chain" effect; see also Pareto optimality). In game theory, therefore, opportunism is not defined as being intrinsically and necessarily always a good thing or a bad thing; it could be either. Usually though, it is assumed, that the game theorist is able to "stand outside" the different interests being studied, to view the situation objectively – in a detached, uninvolved, impartial and unbiased way.
^ According to the Grand Larousse encyclopédique, opportunism was the name given to the cautious reformism and nationalism of French Republicans, who advocated moderate policies to consolidate the French Third Republic after the eviction of the monarchists. The French Opportunists did not call themselves by this name; rather, the term was used by French radicals to describe centrist and center-left politics in the country. Possibly, the term was originally popularized by Victor Henri Rochefort, Marquis de Rochefort-Luçay, who used it in his criticisms of Léon Gambetta.
However, opportunism is sometimes also redefined by businessmen simply as "the theory of discovering and pursuing opportunities".[5] According to this redefinition, "opportunism" is a euphemism for "entrepreneurship".
Capitalist society is of itself aimless and amorphous with regard to the purposes of human life, lacking any shared, consensual ethic. Any candidate for such an ethic, such as a religion, is only as influential as the power that exists to assert it, but even so its norms are constantly contradicted in practice. Capitalism makes human development conditional on the unbridled pursuit of self-enrichment. This promotes personal qualities such as egoism and selfishness, where people try to "privatize the gains and socialize the losses."[43]
Size: in general, the larger an organization is in terms of members, the more scope its members have to engage in opportunist behavior, since the larger it is, the less individual members are practically able to check or control the behavior of many other members, and the more possibility there is that groups of members will develop self-serving interests that deviate from the stated goals of the organization.[16]
^ E.g. Donald L. Luskin, "Newt's Bain Opportunism Is Mitt's Opportunity". Wall Street Journal, 17 January 2012.[1]
See Karl Marx, "The general law of accumulation", in: Capital Volume 1. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1976. Steven Mufson and Jia Lynn Yang, "Capital gains tax rates benefiting wealthy feed growing gap between rich and poor", in: Washington Post, 12 September 2011.
Chester Barnard has a chapter on the "theory of opportunism" in his classic work The Functions of the Executive (Harvard University Press, originally published in 1938).
cited in Daniel Singer, Is Socialism Doomed? The Meaning of Mitterrand. Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 189. Perhaps the quote referred back to a line in John Milton's Paradise Lost according to which it is, "Better to reign in Hell than to serve in Heaven."The mind is its own place, and in it selfCan make a Heav'n of Hell, a Hell of Heav'n.What matter where, if I be still the same,And what I should be, all but less then heWhom Thunder hath made greater? Here at leastWe shall be free; th' Almighty hath not builtHere for his envy, will not drive us henceHere we may reign secure, and in my choiceTo reign is worth ambition though in HellBetter to reign in Hell, then serve in Heav'n. (Book 1)[2]
"Government's sudden need to debate terror bill smacks of opportunism", The Globe and Mail, 22 April 2013.[3]
"The Florentine The man who taught rulers how to rule"
take a risk for the purpose of gaining/maintaining influence, support, wealth or popularity, although taking this risk is inconsistent with the principles being espoused.
Bartareau, T. (1996). "Foraging Behaviour of Trigona Carbonaria (Hymenoptera: Apidae) at Multiple-Choice Feeding Stations". Australian Journal of Zoology. 44 (2): 143. doi:10.1071/zo9960143.
^ See e.g. Psychology of the Private Individual: Critique of Bourgeois Consciousness. Gegenstandpunkt, 2009 [13]
See Karl Marx, Capital Volume 3. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1981.
In choosing or seizingopportunities, human opportunism is most likely to occur where:[3]
Predicaments: The propensity of opportunist behavior is influenced by the general life-situations that people find themselves in. If one's own position is strong and secure, it may be much easier to be an opportunist – because if it would result in losses and failures, those losses and failures can be easily sustained given the resources available. Conversely, a person's existence may be so precarious, that he has "nothing to lose" by seizing any opportunity available to benefit himself. Opportunist behavior can be self-reinforcing: if there is a lot of opportunism, then not to be opportunist oneself would mean that competitors take advantage of that, and therefore people can be forced into an opportunist role as a defensive strategy.
Spiritual opportunism sometimes refers also to the practice of proselytizing one's spiritual beliefs when any opportunity to do so arises, for the purpose of winning over, or persuading others, about the superiority of these beliefs. In this context, the spiritual opportunist may engage in various actions, themselves not directly related to the spiritual beliefs, with the specific aim of convincing others of the superiority of his own belief system – it may effectively amount to "buying their support".
^ cited in Daniel Singer, Is Socialism Doomed? The Meaning of Mitterrand. Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 189. Perhaps the quote referred back to a line in John Milton's Paradise Lost according to which it is, "Better to reign in Hell than to serve in Heaven."The mind is its own place, and in it selfCan make a Heav'n of Hell, a Hell of Heav'n.What matter where, if I be still the same,And what I should be, all but less then heWhom Thunder hath made greater? Here at leastWe shall be free; th' Almighty hath not builtHere for his envy, will not drive us henceHere we may reign secure, and in my choiceTo reign is worth ambition though in HellBetter to reign in Hell, then serve in Heav'n. (Book 1)[2]
Louise Lucas and Andrew Bounds, "Unilever's pension move prompts strike". Financial Times, December 9, 2011.
^ See Karl Marx, "The general law of accumulation", in: Capital Volume 1. Harmondsworth: Pelican Books, 1976. Steven Mufson and Jia Lynn Yang, "Capital gains tax rates benefiting wealthy feed growing gap between rich and poor", in: Washington Post, 12 September 2011.
There exists no agreed general, scientific definition or theory of economic opportunism; the literature usually considers only specific cases and contexts. Market trade supplies no universal morality of its own, except the law of contract and basic practical requirements to settle transactions, while at the same time legal rules, however precise in their formulation, cannot control every detail of transactions and the interpretation (or implications) thereof. Since economic opportunism must be assessed against some relevant norm or principle, controversy about what that norm or principle should be, makes a general definition difficult.[26]
Kenneth Arrow explains that markets require trust to operate effectively, but that trust may not be spontaneously generated by market activity:
The term intellectual opportunism—the pursuit of intellectual opportunities with a selfish, ulterior motive not consistent with relevant principles—refers to certain self-serving tendencies of the human intellect, often involving professional producers and disseminators of ideas, who work with idea-formation all the time. The phenomenon of intellectual opportunism is frequently associated by its critics with careerism. When human knowledge becomes a tradeable good in a market of ideas, all sorts of opportunities arise for huckstering, swindling, haggling and hustling with information in ways which are regarded as unprincipled, dubious or involve deceit of some sort.
do not really express what people's lives are about, but are in some way an "artificial add-on".
^ See further Kuntara Pukthuanthong and Harry J. Turtle, "Legal Opportunism, Litigation Risk, and IPO Underpricing", January 2009 "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-05-17. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link); Paul J. Zak (ed.), Moral markets: the critical role of values in the economy. Princeton University Press, 2008.
Reinhard Bachmann and Akbar Zaheer (eds.), Handbook of trust research. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, 2006, p. 201.
^ Salomone, A. William (October 1962). "The Risorgimento between Ideology and History: The Political Myth of rivoluzione mancata". The American Historical Review. 68 (1): 38–56. doi:10.2307/1847182. JSTOR 1847182.
^ Chester Barnard has a chapter on the "theory of opportunism" in his classic work The Functions of the Executive (Harvard University Press, originally published in 1938).
^ E.g. As'ad AbuKhalil, "Yusuf Al-Qaradawi and Political Opportunism". Al Alakhbar English, 28 March 2012.[6] Archived 2014-02-09 at the Wayback Machine
^ Shraga F. Biran, Opportunism: How to Change the World--One Idea at a Time. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2011.
Some animals also show this behavior for group-foraging. In other words, they try to optimize the feeding intake of their colony. The Australian stingless bee Tetragonula carbonaria, for instance, has several workers search for an area full of rich resources, and will then recruit heavily in this area until the resources are depleted."[21]
Typically, opportunist political behavior is criticized for being short-sighted or narrow-minded.[24] Most politicians are "opportunists" to some extent at least (they aim to use political opportunities creatively to their advantage, and have to try new initiatives), but the controversies surrounding the concept concern the exact relationship between "seizing a political opportunity" and the political principles being espoused. The term "political opportunism" is often used in a pejorative sense, mainly because it connotes the abandonment of principles or compromising political goals.[25] Political integrity typically demands an appropriate combination of principled positions and political flexibility that produces a morally consistent behavior in specific circumstances. There are four main sources of political opportunism: suicide (a specific political methodology that is applied to maintain or increase political influence), populism, risk management, and "means become ends".
^ Chao C. Chen, Mike W. Peng, Patrick A. Saporito, "Individualism, Collectivism, and Opportunism: A Cultural Perspective on Transaction Cost Economics". In: Journal of Management, Vol. 28 No. 4, 2002,pp. 567–583."Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-09-03. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
As a style of human behavior, opportunism has the connotation of a lack of integrity, or doing something that is out of character (inconsistent). The underlying thought is that the price of the unrestrained pursuit of selfishness is behavioral inconsistency. Thus, opportunism involves compromising some or other principles normally upheld. However, the boundary between "legitimate self-interest" and "undesirable (or anti-social) selfishness" can be difficult to define; the definition relies on perspective.[9]
Brunner, Othmar A (2019). ihuman. Writers Republic LLC. p. 380. ISBN 9781646200290.
In microbiology, opportunism refers to the ability of a normally non-pathogenic microorganism to act as a pathogen in certain circumstances.Opportunist micro-organisms (such as bacteria, viruses, fungi, and protozoa) are ones that, when they invade the host organism, can cause infection in the host organism, but cause real disease only if the natural defenses, resistance or immune system of the host organism are lowered (see opportunistic infection). In macrobiology, opportunist behaviour by an organism generally means that it is able to seize and use diverse opportunities in its environment to survive and grow. If one single opportunity or need occurs, the organism can "improvise" a response to it with whatever resources it has available, even if what it can do is not the best possible strategy.
The fact that the self-interested action evokes this conflict, implies that the tendency to use opportunities to advantage is excessive or improper, the corollary being a deficiency of character or lack of propriety. Hence the term opportunism often has the pejorative connotation. Moralists may have a distaste for opportunism, insofar as opportunism implies the violation of a moral principle.
In professional ethics, the concept of opportunism plays a role in defining criteria for professional integrity.[17] In providing a service, a professional may have personal discretion (choice or leeway) about how to provide the service. Professionals may, to a great extent, make their own judgements, interpretations, and decisions about the exact approach to take—without an explicit rule that they must perform in a specific way. Such a situation can be exploited with opportunist motives that are contrary to the stated ethics of a profession. Consequently, it becomes necessary—for the sake of preserving professional integrity—to explicate "guiding norms" that define the boundaries of acceptable practice, or to divide up roles in such a way that different people in an organization can effectively check and control what their colleagues actually do ("to keep them honest").
Taking a realistic or practical approach to a problem can involve "weak" forms of opportunism. For the sake of doing something that will work, or that successfully solves the problem, a previously agreed principle is knowingly compromised or disregarded - with the justification that alternative actions would, overall, have a worse effect.
^ Thomas C. Leonard, "The price is wrong: causes and consequences of ethical restraint in trade." Journal des Economistes et des Etudes Humaines, Volume 14, numéro 4, Décembre 2004, pp 1-17.[7]
Relevant internal or external controls on their behavior are absent.
Ernest Mandel, "Marx, Engels en het probleem van de zogenaamde 'dubbele moraal'", in: Veelzijdig marxisme, acta van het colloqium “De actualiteit van Karl Marx” – in opdracht van het Instituut voor Marxistische Studies, 1983
Opportunism is the conscious policy and practice of taking advantage of circumstances.[1]
5Use of the term in specific areas											Toggle Use of the term in specific areas subsection																					5.1Professional																											5.2Intellectual																											5.3Sexual																											5.4Evolutionary																											5.5Biological																											5.6Political																											5.7Economic																											5.8Game theory																											5.9Social																											5.10Marxist theory																											5.11Legal																											5.12Spiritual
Timmermans, Elisabeth; Van den Bulck, Jan (2018). "Casual Sexual Scripts on the Screen: A Quantitative Content Analysis". Archives of Sexual Behavior. 47 (5): 1481–1496. doi:10.1007/s10508-018-1147-1. ISSN 0004-0002. PMC 5954064. PMID 29589163.
^ Williamson, Oliver E. (1995). "Hierarchies, Markets and Power in the Economy : An Economic Perspective". Industrial and Corporate Change. 4: 21–49. doi:10.1093/icc/4.1.21.
Michael Ruse, The Oxford handbook of philosophy of biology. Oxford University Press, 2008, p. 199.
take advantage of an opportunity to increase influence, support, wealth or popularity, although it is not consistent with the principles being upheld.
^ Farah Stockman, "Opportunist of war". The Boston Globe, 13 december 2011.[4]
^ Pierre Broué, The German revolution 1917-1923. Leiden: Brill, 2005, p. 55-56.
See: Samuel Bowles, Richard Edwards and Frank Roosevelt, Understanding Capitalism: Competition, Command and Change. Oxford University Press, 3rd edition, 2005.
This page was last edited on 13 January 2023, at 16:26 (UTC).
Information: opportunism is facilitated in the absence of relevant information, knowledge or awareness about the interests and values involved in a situation or activity, making it difficult to identify and judge all the consequences in pursuing an opportunity. This could be due to deliberate disinformation. Self-interest may be followed because it is unclear or undecided what other interests are at stake, or because a shared morality is lacking. If the situation is one where shared rules are lacking, where it is quite uncertain what the relevant rule to apply is, or where everything is very uncertain or chaotic, plenty of scopes exists for opportunist behavior.[14]
^ Kurt Eggert, "Limiting abuse and opportunism by mortgage servicers". In: Housing Policy Debate (Fannie Mae Foundation), Vol. 15, Issue 3, 2004."Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-05-15. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
Competition: in a situation of intense conflict, competition or war,[15] it may be that people will do anything to survive, win, retain support, or defend themselves, never mind the principles, ideals or beliefs they had. Ordinary laws and "rules of the game" break down, creating new opportunities for those positioned to take advantage of them.
^ Damian Saunders, "Mark Hurd and HP, economic opportunism and greed, one year on." Opinion, 30 January 2010.[8] Dan Ackman, "Kozlowski Speaks!". Forbes Magazine, 28 April 2005.[9] Ken Frost, "The Ongoing Trials of The Late Michael Jackson: Greed and Opportunism." 2 February 2005.[10]
Luke Johnson, "A new lexicon to celebrate capitalism", Financial Times, October 25, 2011.
To the extent that the feelings, wishes, intentions, purposes, interests or norms of others are not adequately considered in the pursuit of sexual gratification, it then conflicts with some or other principle for appropriate behavior, and it may involve deceit or dishonesty (for example, the deliberate exploitation of sexual innocence). In that case, sexual opportunist is considered to lack sexual and/or personal integrity. In a clinical or scientific sense, sexual opportunism is often straightforwardly described as observable sexual promiscuity or the observable propensity to engage in casual sex,whatever the motive.[19]
Taken together, these five factors make it difficult for any individual or group to reconcile self-interest with the general interest, genuinely and durably, and it means that moral double standards are very pervasive.[44]In turn, that creates a total environment where opportunism can flourish – including within the socialist movement. In fact, "opportunism" as a political term began to be used widely among Marxists, when the parliamentarians from the leading party of the Second International, the German Social Democratic Party, voted in favour of the war credits necessary at the beginning of World War I.[45]Marxist critics argued that this policy was a total abandonment of socialist principles, especially the principle of anti-militarism and the international solidarity of the working class.[46] Since that time, opportunism has been often defined by Marxists as a policy that puts special interests ahead of the interests of the working class[47]
An example is Robert M. Price, Top Secret: The Truth Behind Today’s Pop Mysticisms. Prometheus Books, 2008
Sexual opportunism is the selfish pursuit of sexual opportunities for their own sake when they arise, often with the negative moral connotation that in some way it "takes advantage" of others, or "makes use" of, or "exploits", other persons for sexual purposes. Sexual opportunism is sometimes also defined as the use of sexual favors for selfish purposes quite unrelated to the sexual activity, in which case taking a sexual opportunity is merely themeans to achieve a quite different purpose, for example, to advance one's career or obtain status or money.[18] This may be accepted or tolerated, or it may be criticized because the concerns of others are not adequately taken into consideration.
"The Risorgimento between Ideology and History: The Political Myth of rivoluzione mancata"
^ Bogdan Mieczkowski, Dysfunctional Bureaucracy: A Comparative and Historical Perspective. Lanham,Maryland: University Press of America, 1991, p. 37.
Groups, gatherings, associations, or organizations that operate on the basis of voluntary or involuntary association, or in an atmosphere of mutual trust, may provide resources or contacts to their participants that are:
Thomas C. Leonard, "The price is wrong: causes and consequences of ethical restraint in trade." Journal des Economistes et des Etudes Humaines, Volume 14, numéro 4, Décembre 2004, pp 1-17.[7]
Farah Stockman, "Opportunist of war". The Boston Globe, 13 december 2011.[4]
Chao C. Chen, Mike W. Peng, Patrick A. Saporito, "Individualism, Collectivism, and Opportunism: A Cultural Perspective on Transaction Cost Economics". In: Journal of Management, Vol. 28 No. 4, 2002,pp. 567–583."Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-09-03. Retrieved 2013-05-07.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
In human behavior, opportunism concerns the relationship between people's actions, and their basic principles when faced with opportunities and challenges. The opportunist seeks to gain a personal advantage when an opportunity presents itself, putting self-interest ahead of some other interest, in a way contrary either to a previously established principle or another principle that ought to have higher priority. Hence opportunist behavior is usually regarded at least as questionable or dubious, and at most as unjustifiable or completely illegitimate. Opportunism is regarded as unhealthy, as a disorder or as a character deficiency, if selfishly pursuing an opportunity is blatantly anti-social (involves disregard for the needs, wishes and interests of others). However, behavior can also be regarded as "opportunist" by scholars without any particular moral evaluation being made or implied (simply as a type of self-interested behavior).
Graham Scambler, "Sex Work Stigma: Opportunist Migrants in London".Sociology,vol. 41, no. 6, December 2007, pp. 1079-1096.
1682, Aphra Behn, The Roundheads or, The Good Old Cause, London: D. Brown et al., Act III, Scene 1, p. 27,[12] […]to wrest the Law to our convenienceIs no small, inconsiderate Work?
This page was last edited on 25 February 2023, at 16:13.
1852, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Uncle Tom’s Cabin, Boston: John P. Jewett, Volume 1, Chapter 15, p. 241,[1]“It’s very inconsiderate of you, St. Clare,” said the lady, “to insist on my talking and looking at things. You know I’ve been lying all day with the sick-headache; and there’s been such a tumult made ever since you came, I’m half dead.”
c. 1596,William Shakespeare,“The Life and Death of King Iohn”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act II, scene i]:
1593, Gabriel Harvey, Pierces Supererogation or A New Prayse of the Old Asse, London: John Wolfe, p. 175,[7]I am ouer-ready to pardon young ouersights, and forgiue inconsiderate offences:
1815 December (indicated as 1816),[Jane Austen],chapter 8, inEmma: […], volume (please specify |volume=I, II or III), London:[…][Charles Roworth and James Moyes] for John Murray, OCLC 1708336: […]Mr. Elton might not be of an imprudent, inconsiderate disposition as to money-matters; he might naturally be rather attentive than otherwise to them;
1791, Charlotte Lennox, Hermione, London: William Lane, Volume 4, Letter 20, p. 65,[9]Do me not the injustice to imagine I now require any particulars to convince me of your innocence, and of my own inconsiderate conclusions.
Not considerate of others.Synonyms: thoughtless, unthoughtfulAntonyms: considerate, thoughtfulNot replacing the roll after using the last of the toilet paper is very inconsiderate.1852, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Uncle Tom’s Cabin, Boston: John P. Jewett, Volume 1, Chapter 15, p. 241,[1]“It’s very inconsiderate of you, St. Clare,” said the lady, “to insist on my talking and looking at things. You know I’ve been lying all day with the sick-headache; and there’s been such a tumult made ever since you came, I’m half dead.”1922, Willa Cather, One of Ours, New York: Knopf, Book 1, Chapter 16, pp. 89-90,[2]Bayliss and his father were talking together before dinner when Claude came in and was so inconsiderate as to put up a window, though he knew his brother hated a draft.1988, Anne Tyler, Breathing Lessons, New York: Knopf, Part 1, Chapter 1, p. 13,[3]“Ann Landers claims drop-in visits are inconsiderate,” he said.
[…]to such a choice are many worthy women betrayed, by that false and inconsiderate notion, raised and propagated, no doubt, by the author of all delusion, That a reformed Rake makes the best husband.
[…]Mr. Elton might not be of an imprudent, inconsiderate disposition as to money-matters; he might naturally be rather attentive than otherwise to them;
1655, Edward Terry, A Voyage to East-India, London: J. Martin and J. Allestrye, pp. 15-16,[11] […]when they had sold any one of their bullooks to us, for a little inconsiderate peece of brasse, if we did not presently knock him down, they would by the same call, make the poor creature break from us and run unto them again, and then there was no getting them out of their hands, but by giving them more brasse,
1748,[Samuel Richardson],“Letter LXXVIII”, inClarissa. Or, The History of a Young Lady: […], volume (please specify |volume=I to VII), London:[…]S[amuel] Richardson; […], OCLC 13631815, page 267:
1988, Anne Tyler, Breathing Lessons, New York: Knopf, Part 1, Chapter 1, p. 13,[3]“Ann Landers claims drop-in visits are inconsiderate,” he said.
(obsolete) Resulting from insufficient consideration.Synonym: unconsidered1593, Gabriel Harvey, Pierces Supererogation or A New Prayse of the Old Asse, London: John Wolfe, p. 175,[7]I am ouer-ready to pardon young ouersights, and forgiue inconsiderate offences:1665, Robert Boyle, New Experiments and Observations Touching Cold, London: John Crook, The Authors Preface Introductory,[8]And having given us this inconsiderate Description of Cold, they [the Classick Authors] commonly take leave of the subject, as if it deserved no further handling, then could be afforded it in a few Lines,1748,[Samuel Richardson],“Letter LXXVIII”, inClarissa. Or, The History of a Young Lady: […], volume (please specify |volume=I to VII), London:[…]S[amuel] Richardson; […], OCLC 13631815, page 267: […]to such a choice are many worthy women betrayed, by that false and inconsiderate notion, raised and propagated, no doubt, by the author of all delusion, That a reformed Rake makes the best husband.1791, Charlotte Lennox, Hermione, London: William Lane, Volume 4, Letter 20, p. 65,[9]Do me not the injustice to imagine I now require any particulars to convince me of your innocence, and of my own inconsiderate conclusions.1857, Anthony Trollope, Barchester Towers,Leipzig: Bernhard Tauchnitz, 1859, Volume 2, Chapter 6, p. 83,[10]Charlotte Stanhope did not in the least conceive that her new friend was a woman whom nothing could entrap into an inconsiderate marriage[…]
1709, Aaron Hill, A Full and Just Account of the Present State of the Ottoman Empire, London: for the author, Chapter 7, p. 51,[5]They Pray with Fervour and a fix’d, Attention, never turning like too many Inconsiderate Christians in our Noisy Churches, to behold what People pass behind them;
c. 1596,William Shakespeare,“The Life and Death of King Iohn”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act II, scene i]:And all the unsettled humours of the land,Rash, inconsiderate, fiery voluntaries,[…] Have sold their fortunes at their native homes,Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs,To make hazard of new fortunes here:
Russian: невнима́тельный (ru) (nevnimátelʹnyj) (к другим), неделика́тный (ru) (nedelikátnyj), нетакти́чный (ru) (netaktíčnyj)
(obsolete) Not giving enough consideration to one's actions, conclusions, etc.; acting too quickly without considering the risks and consequences.Synonyms: hasty, inattentive, rash, unreflectingc. 1596,William Shakespeare,“The Life and Death of King Iohn”, inMr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London:[…]Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act II, scene i]:And all the unsettled humours of the land,Rash, inconsiderate, fiery voluntaries,[…] Have sold their fortunes at their native homes,Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs,To make hazard of new fortunes here:1689, John Locke, An Essay Concerning Human Understanding, London: Thomas Basset, Book 1, Chapter 4, § 15, p. 32,[4] […]the wise and considerate Men of the World, by a right and careful employment of their Thoughts, and Reason, attained true Notions in this, as well as other things; whilst the lazy and inconsiderate part of Men, making the far greater number, took up their Notions, by chance, from common Tradition, and vulgar Conceptions, without much beating their heads about them.1709, Aaron Hill, A Full and Just Account of the Present State of the Ottoman Empire, London: for the author, Chapter 7, p. 51,[5]They Pray with Fervour and a fix’d, Attention, never turning like too many Inconsiderate Christians in our Noisy Churches, to behold what People pass behind them;1777, William Hutchinson, A Treatise on Practical Seamanship, Liverpool: for the author, p. 137,[6] […]the most danger is from those inconsiderate and unexperienced pilots, who think a ship may be managed and conducted with equal ease and safety among shoals, as their own small vessels to which they have been accustomed,1815 December (indicated as 1816),[Jane Austen],chapter 8, inEmma: […], volume (please specify |volume=I, II or III), London:[…][Charles Roworth and James Moyes] for John Murray, OCLC 1708336: […]Mr. Elton might not be of an imprudent, inconsiderate disposition as to money-matters; he might naturally be rather attentive than otherwise to them;
(obsolete) Of too little value to be considered.Synonyms: inconsiderable, negligible, trifling1655, Edward Terry, A Voyage to East-India, London: J. Martin and J. Allestrye, pp. 15-16,[11] […]when they had sold any one of their bullooks to us, for a little inconsiderate peece of brasse, if we did not presently knock him down, they would by the same call, make the poor creature break from us and run unto them again, and then there was no getting them out of their hands, but by giving them more brasse,1682, Aphra Behn, The Roundheads or, The Good Old Cause, London: D. Brown et al., Act III, Scene 1, p. 27,[12] […]to wrest the Law to our convenienceIs no small, inconsiderate Work?
1922, Willa Cather, One of Ours, New York: Knopf, Book 1, Chapter 16, pp. 89-90,[2]Bayliss and his father were talking together before dinner when Claude came in and was so inconsiderate as to put up a window, though he knew his brother hated a draft.
1665, Robert Boyle, New Experiments and Observations Touching Cold, London: John Crook, The Authors Preface Introductory,[8]And having given us this inconsiderate Description of Cold, they [the Classick Authors] commonly take leave of the subject, as if it deserved no further handling, then could be afforded it in a few Lines,
And all the unsettled humours of the land,Rash, inconsiderate, fiery voluntaries,[…] Have sold their fortunes at their native homes,Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs,To make hazard of new fortunes here:
1 English1.1 Etymology1.2 Pronunciation1.3 Adjective1.3.1 Related terms1.3.2 Translations1.4 See also1.5 Anagrams
1748,[Samuel Richardson],“Letter LXXVIII”, inClarissa. Or, The History of a Young Lady: […], volume (please specify |volume=I to VII), London:[…]S[amuel] Richardson; […], OCLC 13631815, page 267: […]to such a choice are many worthy women betrayed, by that false and inconsiderate notion, raised and propagated, no doubt, by the author of all delusion, That a reformed Rake makes the best husband.
“inconsiderate”, in Charlton T. Lewis and Charles Short (1879) A Latin Dictionary, Oxford: Clarendon Press
1815 December (indicated as 1816),[Jane Austen],chapter 8, inEmma: […], volume (please specify |volume=I, II or III), London:[…][Charles Roworth and James Moyes] for John Murray, OCLC 1708336:
1689, John Locke, An Essay Concerning Human Understanding, London: Thomas Basset, Book 1, Chapter 4, § 15, p. 32,[4] […]the wise and considerate Men of the World, by a right and careful employment of their Thoughts, and Reason, attained true Notions in this, as well as other things; whilst the lazy and inconsiderate part of Men, making the far greater number, took up their Notions, by chance, from common Tradition, and vulgar Conceptions, without much beating their heads about them.
1777, William Hutchinson, A Treatise on Practical Seamanship, Liverpool: for the author, p. 137,[6] […]the most danger is from those inconsiderate and unexperienced pilots, who think a ship may be managed and conducted with equal ease and safety among shoals, as their own small vessels to which they have been accustomed,
“inconsiderate”, in Charlton T. Lewis (1891) An Elementary Latin Dictionary, New York: Harper & Brothers
1857, Anthony Trollope, Barchester Towers,Leipzig: Bernhard Tauchnitz, 1859, Volume 2, Chapter 6, p. 83,[10]Charlotte Stanhope did not in the least conceive that her new friend was a woman whom nothing could entrap into an inconsiderate marriage[…]
The implications of selfishness have inspired divergent views within religious, philosophical, psychological, economic, and evolutionary contexts.
Rand, Ayn (1964). The virtue of selfishness : a new concept of egoism. Penguin. ISBN 0-451-16393-1. OCLC 123776818.
G. Gutting ed., The Cambridge Companion to Foucault (2003) pp. 138–
The Selfish Gene, Richard Dawkins (1990), second edition—includes two chapters about the evolution of cooperation, ISBN 0-19-286092-5
Uzgalis, William (1 May 2018). "John Locke". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
^ Uzgalis, William (1 May 2018). "John Locke". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
Maritain, Jacques (1973). The Person and the Common Good. Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press. ISBN 978-0268002046.
^ G. Gutting ed., The Cambridge Companion to Foucault (2003) pp. 138–
Ronel, N. (2011). “Criminal behavior, criminal mind: Being caught in a criminal spin”. International Journal of Offender Therapy and Comparative Criminology, 55(8), 1208–33
This page was last edited on 8 October 2022, at 00:10 (UTC).
The virtue of selfishness : a new concept of egoism
^ P. L. Nevins (2010). The Politics of Selfishness pp. xii–xiii
P. L. Nevins (2010). The Politics of Selfishness pp. xii–xiii
^ Maritain, Jacques (1973). The Person and the Common Good. Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press. ISBN 978-0268002046.
^ M. Skousen, The Big Three in Economics (2007) p.29
^ Terence Real, I Don't Want to Talk About It (1997) pp. 203–05
The Evolution of Cooperation, Robert Axelrod, Basic Books, ISBN 0-465-02121-2
Selfishness is being concerned excessively or exclusively, for oneself or one's own advantage, pleasure, or welfare, regardless of others.[1][2]
Terence Real, I Don't Want to Talk About It (1997) pp. 203–05
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Longley, Robert (29 June 2020). "What Is Classical Liberalism? Definition and Examples". ThoughtCo.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
Goodman, John C. "What Is Classical Liberalism?". Goodman Institute For Public Policy Research.
^ Selfishness – meaning, reference.com, accessed on 23 April 2012
Roman Catholic philosopher Jacques Maritain opposed the latter view by way of the Aristotelian argument that framing the fundamental question of politics as a choice between altruism and selfishness is a basic and harmful mistake of modern states. Rather, cooperation ought to be the norm: human beings are by nature social animals, and so individual persons can only find their full good in and through pursuing the good of the community.[15]
Lack of empathy has been seen as one of the roots of selfishness, extending as far as the cold manipulation of the psychopath.[16]
Adam Smith with the concept of the invisible hand saw the economic system as usefully channelling selfish self-interest to wider ends.[9] John Locke, along with Adam Smith, was a key figure in early classical liberalism:[10] an ideology that trumps notions of individualism and negative liberty. These core themes inevitably relate to the concept of selfishness. Locke, for example, sought for people to exercise "self-government"—the idea that an individual should make his/her own decisions.[11] This inherent right would allow individuals to pursue self-interests, rather than suffer the burdens of any altruistic obligations.[12]Thus, unlike political ideologies such as socialism, Locke and other classical liberals believe that selfishness is engrained in human nature. Locke arguably opened the door for later thinkers like Ayn Rand to argue for selfishness as a social virtue and the root of social progress.[13] Ayn Rand held that selfishness is a virtue.[14]
Selfishness was viewed in the Western Christian tradition as a central vice—as standing at the roots of the seven deadly sins in the form of pride.[6]
Francis Bacon carried forward this tradition when he characterised “Wisdom for a man's self...[a]s the wisdom of rats”.[7]
^ Mandeville, The Fable of the Bees (1970) pp. 81–83, 410
Mandeville, The Fable of the Bees (1970) pp. 81–83, 410
"Selfish" Archived 2014-10-19 at the Wayback Machine, Merriam-Webster Dictionary, accessed on 23 August 2014
With the emergence of a commercial society, Bernard Mandeville proposed the paradox that social and economic advance depended on private vices—on what he called the sordidness of selfishness.[8]
Psychoanalysts favor the development of a genuine sense of self, and may even speak of a healthy selfishness,[19] as opposed to the self-occlusion[20] of what Anna Freud called "emotional surrender".[21]
^ Goodman, John C. "What Is Classical Liberalism?". Goodman Institute For Public Policy Research.
^ Ronel, N. (2011). “Criminal behavior, criminal mind: Being caught in a criminal spin”. International Journal of Offender Therapy and Comparative Criminology, 55(8), 1208–33
Self-centeredness was marked as a key feature in a phenomenological theory of criminality named "The Criminal Spin" model. Accordingly, in most criminal behaviors there is a heightened state of self-centeredness, that differently manifests itself in different situations and in different forms of criminality.[22]
Aristotle joined a perceived majority of his countrymen in condemning those who sought only to profit themselves; but he approved the man of reason who sought to gain for himself the greatest share of that which deserved social praise.[4]
Seneca proposed a cultivation of the self within a wider community—a care for the self which he opposed to mere selfishness in a theme that would later be taken up by Foucault.[5]
1Divergent views											Toggle Divergent views subsection																					1.1Classical																											1.2Medieval/Renaissance																											1.3Modernity and Contemporary
^ R. D. Laing, Self and Others (1969) pp. 142–43
The contrast between self-affirmation and selfishness has become a conflictual arena in which the respective claims of individual/community are often played out between parents and children[17] or men and women, for example.[18]
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Longley, Robert (29 June 2020). "What Is Classical Liberalism? Definition and Examples". ThoughtCo.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Rand, Ayn (1964). The virtue of selfishness : a new concept of egoism. Penguin. ISBN 0-451-16393-1. OCLC 123776818.
^ "Selfish" Archived 2014-10-19 at the Wayback Machine, Merriam-Webster Dictionary, accessed on 23 August 2014
