German Visual DictionaryA photo guide to everyday words and phrases in German, arranged by topic and including information on culture and customs. Free sample content available!Read more
Join the Collins communityAll the latest wordy news, linguistic insights, offers and competitions every month.Read more
Example sentences from real language to show how the word is used
Learning German: Apologizing and attracting someone’s attentionMost of us know when we have to say sorry, but when we’re not speaking our own language, it’s important to know how to do it. Here are some hints to get you started in German!Read more
Collins Complete and Unabridged German DictionaryThe perfect dictionary for advanced learners of GermanRead more
Learn German GrammarAll you need to know about German grammar and verbs. Visit our online resource.October 22, 2020Read more
Understanding German verb tensesIn this short article, we explain and provide some examples of the most common German tenses you'll come across.Read more
Unlock German with the Paul Noble methodThe Paul Noble Method: no books, no rote memorization, no chance of failure. Start with the Complete German Beginner's course, then follow up with Next Steps German.Read more
Understanding Spanish verb tensesIn this short article, we explain and provide some examples of the most common Spanish verb tenses you'll come across.Read more
Join the Collins communityAll the latest wordy news, linguistic insights, offers and competitions every month. Read more
Learning Spanish: Common courtesiesWhether you’re visiting a Spanish-speaking country or even planning to live there, you’ll want to be able to chat to people and get to know them better. The nuts and bolts of conversations revolve around common courtesies.Read more
Unlock Spanish with the Paul Noble methodThe Paul Noble Method: no books, no rote memorization, no chance of failure. Start with the Complete Spanish Beginner's course, then follow up with Next Steps Spanish.Read more
Spanish Visual DictionaryA photo guide to everyday words and phrases in Spanish, arranged by topic and including information on culture and customs. Free sample content available!Read more
Spanish word of the week: imagenThis week's Spanish word is 'imagen'.Find out its meaning and how it is used!March 8, 2023Read more
Example sentences from real language to show how the word is used
Collins Spanish Dictionary: Complete and Unabridged The perfect resource for all advanced students of the Spanish language.Read more
Spanish Easy Learning GrammarEasy Learning Spanish Grammar is the ideal online resource for both home and school study.Read more
488 Wellington St W #204Toronto, ON M5V 1E9Montreal486 Saint-Catherine Street WSuite 409Montreal, QC H3B 1A6
All the benefits of the Premium Coverage plan for you and your family, for less.
To help us get to know you better, we ask you for a few basic details such as your name, location and what brought you to us. You can then select the plan that best suits your needs and after you create your account, you're only 15 minutes away from the finish line!
A person who dies without a will is called an intestate, and most people don’t know what happens if you die without one. It’s a common myth that the government can claim your money and assets, but it’s not true. They do have the ability to have a say in how your assets or estate gets divided between family members. Creating a will also means you can control how your assets are distributed to beneficiaries over time, instead of children receiving a lump sum when they turn 18.
Register the location of your will on the Canada Will Registry ($40 value)
Creating a legal will involves abiding with provincial and territorial laws. We are working with our team of estate lawyers to expand across Canada.
We keep our pricing simple, find the Willful plan that best suits your needs
We were floored with the process. Simple, efficient, just amazing, thank you Willful for existing.
Establish power of attorney documents for health (living will) and property
A lawyer does not have to create your will. It’s simply a document that outlines your key end-of-life wishes and distribution of assets. The key is that your will has to be signed by you and two competent adult witnesses who are both present at the same time. The original hard copy of that signed document needs to be stored in a safe place where your executor or a family member can access it.
Create your will and power of attorney documents, plan for your assets and funeral wishes.
As new parents, we had been needing to write our wills and this tool allowed us to do just that, effortlessly, from the comfort of our own home.
You've gone through the Willful platform and have paid to access your documents. Not only are your documents ready to print and sign but you can always edit and update any section, any time! Included are detailed instructions to ensure your documents follow the legal requirements to make them official.
We worked with experienced estate lawyers to create a seamless experience to help you cover all your bases. You answer the questions, our technology customizes legal documents to best represent your wishes while avoiding common errors and contradictions.
‍Yes. An online will made with a platform like Willful is legal in Canada. However, there are some steps that need to be taken in order for it to meet the criteria for a legal will in Canada. Each Willful will comes with detailed instructions for signing and witnessing so you can feel confident that you have a legally-valid will.
Get peace of mind for you and your family bycreating your will today.
Register the location of their will on the Canada Will Registry ($40 value)
Create your legal will online for as low as $99
Canadian law dictates that your will has to be printed, signed, and stored as a hard copy. While we’re working to change this, right now all Willful customers will need to follow these steps to ensure their will is legally-binding.
Willful guides you through making your legal will online from the comfort of home.
Power of attorney documents govern your personal, medical, legal, and financial life *before* you pass away. In contrast, your Last will and testament only takes effect *after* you die. Willful Power of attorney documents are intended to be used in a personal accident or medical emergency on your behalf. In a legal sense, their powers 'endure' beyond your mental incapacity.
Having a living will could be one of the most important documents you ever create, with Willful it’s never been easier to create one.
Canada’s favourite do-it-yourself online will platform breaks down the estate planning process into simple steps, so you can create your last will and testament and power of attorney documents in 20 minutes or less. Willful documents are approved by lawyers in your province so you will enjoy peace of mind knowing your estate plan is legally-secure.
Create a legal will and notify key contacts named in your will.
Right now our wills are  available to residents of Ontario, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Nova Scotia, Manitoba, New Brunswick and B.C..
Willful is designed for Canadians who have assets, whether that’s property or something of monetary value. While the majority of Canadians can create a will using Willful, there are situations where your estate would be too complex for our software. An example of this could be if you own homes in multiple countries.
