We are now registered with Mundra Port for import, export, clearance and freight forwarding (date: May 28, 2021)
We have system for post import/export work involving redemption of bonds, bank guarantee, undertakings, refunds, etc. In case of non available of Original documents we help importer for reconstruction and clear the consignment with the help of shipping Guarantee. Our’s is the knowledge-based organization, has proved their merit in handling various complex matters for many leading companies in India. We help shipper for Re-Export the Goods refused to clear by the Importer. We are part of your organization, with accountability and answerability.
AMI GROUPAmiable Logistics (India) Ltd. formerly known as Amiable Logistics (India) Private Limited provides services to Importers and Exporters for the smooth clearance of all kind of Imports and Exports by Air & Sea.
Our wide range of trucking solutions will get your goods safely across the city, state or country.we have our own trailers to carry 20 ft and 40 ft containers.We are experts in handling loads that exceed the standard or ordinary legal size and/or weight limits for a specified portion of road or highway.
Amiable Logistics (India) Limited is listed with the National Stock Exchange (date: November 16, 2022)
Sufficient warehouse space to transit your goods, preferential Allotment of space and exclusive rates for certain types of cargo on certain destinations are some of the other value added services provided to our esteemed clients.
Sufficient warehouse space to transit your goods, preferential Allotment of space and exclusive rates for certain types of cargo on certain
Get A Quote																						Air Import Freight								Sea Import Freight								Air Export Freight								Sea Export Freight								Air Import Clearence								Sea Import Clearence								Air Export Clearence								Sea Export Clearence								Logistics								Road Transport								DGFT								Legal Complaince
We also can arrange for door to door services for locally & internationally at an additional cost. We own our trucks & trailers for the delivery of goods of our clients to their nominated places for faster clearance within the stipulated time. AMI’s fleet comprises of own ranging from 14 to 30 tones operating all over Maharashtra & Gujarat.
Undertaking all custom formalities for clearance by air & sea from all over India of all types of consignments and offer consultancy services for :- Documentation as regards to Export & Imports. Verification of MEIS, Audit of Advance Licences etc. Documentation as regards to registration of papers with customs for E.P.C.G scheme, 100% export oriented units. Follow up with customs for early payment of claims & refunds. Effective liaison with the Director General of Foreign Trade and regional office for all sorts of work such as issue of Duty Free licence, EODC/Redemption Letter, Import Export code etc.
Amiable Logistics (India) Ltd. provides services to Importers and Exporters for the smooth clearance of all kind of Imports and Exports by Air & Sea. Amiable Logistics (India) Ltd. is a bridge between trade & government authority like Custom & DGFT. We give personal attention to entrepreneurs. We believe not only in serving our valuable clients but serving them with efficiency, honesty and dedication
We also can arrange for door to door services for locally & internationally at an additional cost. We own our trucks & trailers for the delivery of
We are satisfied with your services. And hope to increase more business with you. Thanks With Best Regards
© 2023 Ami Group. All Rights Reserved.Maintained By Network Infotech
INVESTOR																																								Our Management																		Board Of DirectorsList of KMP																																	 																Committees of Board								Financial Results								Shareholding Patterns																Corporate Policies								Annual Report								Initial Public Offer(IPO)								Annual Returns																								Corporate Information								AGM Notice								Disclosure
Address : 322, 3rd Floor, D Wing,Neelkanth Business Park, Kirol Village, Behind Bus Depot, Vidyavihar (W), Mumbai-400 086.
We have system for post import/export work involving redemption of bonds, bank guarantee, undertakings, refunds, etc.
We believe in working 24/7 i.e round-the-clock service. Our team is committed to the highest level of ethics, integrity and confidentiality.
We believe the only way to maintain long-term relationships with clients as by rendering best service and by measuring performance to constantly improve it.
We are committed to achieve a level of quality, which will set the velocity in the Logistics companies in terms of value and service.
Service levels of your organization are excellent your staff gives timely updates and is helpful.
Specializing in importing and exporting Full Container Load (FCL) & Less than Container Load (LCL) to and from the India As soon as your ocean cargo containers are loaded and sealed by the shipper at the shipper’s facility, we can provide the personal care you deserve to coordinate your door-to-door delivery.
Undertaking all custom formalities for clearance by air & sea from all over India of all types of consignments and offer consultancy services for :-
We are an International Air Cargo Forwarder, registered as an indirect air carrier . We offer flexibility over the type of service available, including an airline network covering every major airport in the world. We offerinternational scheduled as well as charter air cargo services with door-to-door service if needed.
1.We appreciate services of M/s Amiable Logistics (India) Ltd. 2.You are providing good service to us and your staff is well behaved and act according to urgency.Thanks & regards,
Fill in the form below and we will get back to you As Soon As Possible.
We are engaged with your company from last 5 years.The clearance of shipment is very fast and reliable to Handle the problems carefully .The only complaint is one that the update of any notification from yourside is little late from your side. Over all satisfied with your company and hope your company touch's sky in very short periodRegards

Friendliness, especially easy approachability owing to a cheerful and pleasant disposition.
This page was last edited on 17 January 2023, at 03:56.
