NEW – The Essential Diabetes Book - Mayo Clinic PressNEW – The Essential Diabetes Book
The exact cause of broken heart syndrome is unclear. It's thought that a surge of stress hormones, such as adrenaline, might temporarily damage the hearts of some people. How these hormones might hurt the heart or whether something else is responsible isn't completely clear.
Mayo Clinic on Hearing and Balance - Mayo Clinic PressMayo Clinic on Hearing and Balance
A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission.
Reeder GS, et al. Clinical manifestations and diagnosis of stress (takotsubo) cardiomyopathy. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. Accessed Sept. 17, 2019.
Most people who have broken heart syndrome quickly recover and don't have long-lasting effects. But sometimes the condition occurs again. This is called recurrent takotsubo cardiomyopathy.
Mayo Clinic on Hearing and Balance - Mayo Clinic Press
ResearchResearchResearch FacultyLaboratoriesCore FacilitiesCenters & ProgramsDepartments & DivisionsClinical TrialsInstitutional Review BoardPostdoctoral FellowshipsTraining Grant Programs
People with broken heart syndrome may have sudden chest pain or think they're having a heart attack. Broken heart syndrome affects just part of the heart. It briefly interrupts the way the heart pumps blood. The rest of the heart continues to work as usual. Sometimes the heart contracts more forcefully.
Amin HZ, et al. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy: A brief review. Journal of Medicine and Life. 2020; doi:10.25122/jml-2018-0067.
Zhang L, et al. Stress-induced cardiomyopathy. Heart Failure Clinics. 2019; doi:10.1016/j.hfc.2018.08.005.
FREE Mayo Clinic Diet Assessment - Mayo Clinic PressFREE Mayo Clinic Diet Assessment
Symptoms of broken heart syndrome can mimic a heart attack. Symptoms may include:
It's true: Your heart can break from stressFeb. 24, 2022, 09:00 p.m.CDT
Broken heart syndrome is a heart condition that's often brought on by stressful situations and extreme emotions. The condition also can be triggered by a serious physical illness or surgery. Broken heart syndrome is often a temporary condition. But some people may continue to feel unwell after the heart is healed.
Sudden illness such as an asthma attack or COVID-19 infection.
Reeder GS, et al. Management and prognosis of stress (takotsubo) cardiomyopathy. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. Accessed Sept. 17, 2019.
Sign up for free, and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips and current health topics, like COVID-19, plus expertiseon managing health. Click here for an email preview.
How is broken heart syndrome different from a heart attack?
Kido K, et al. Drug-induced takotsubo cardiomyopathy. Journal of Cardiovascular and Pharmacologic Therapy. 2017; doi:10.1177/1074248417708618.
Having chronic stress may increase the risk of broken heart syndrome. Taking steps to manage emotional stress can improve heart health and may help prevent broken heart syndrome. Some ways to reduce and manage stress include:
Lyon AR, et al. Current state of knowledge on Takotsubo syndrome: A position statement from the taskforce on Takotsubo syndrome of the Heart Failure Association of the European Society of Cardiology. European Journal of Heart Failure. 2016; doi:10.1002/ejhf.424.
Sex. Broken heart syndrome is more common in women than in men.
Boyd B, et al. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy: Review of broken heart syndrome. JAAPA. 2020; doi:10.1097/01.JAA.0000654368.35241.fc.
To prevent another episode of broken heart syndrome, many health care providers recommend long-term treatment with beta blockers or similar medicines. These medicines block the potentially harmful effects of stress hormones on the heart.
Ferri FF. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. In: Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2020. Elsevier; 2020. https://www.clinicalkey.com. Accessed Sept. 18, 2019.
Mayo Clinic Health Letter - FREE book - Mayo Clinic Press
Rarely, use of certain drugs may lead to broken heart syndrome. They include:
Is broken heart syndrome real? American Heart Association. https://www.heart.org/en/health-topics/cardiomyopathy/what-is-cardiomyopathy-in-adults/is-broken-heart-syndrome-real. Accessed Sept. 21, 2021.
For Medical ProfessionalsFor Medical ProfessionalsProvider RelationsCareLink Online ReferralsContinuing Medical EducationMayo Clinic LaboratoriesAskMayoExpertVideo CenterJournals and Publications
De Chazal HM, et al. Stress cardiomyopathy diagnosis and treatment. Journal of the American College of Cardiology 2019; doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2018.07.072.
An intense physical or emotional event often comes before broken heart syndrome. Anything that causes a strong emotional response may trigger the condition. Examples include:
You'll soon start receiving the latest Mayo Clinic health information you requested in your inbox.
There is a problem withinformation submitted for this request. Review/update theinformation highlighted below and resubmit the form.
Mental health conditions. People who have or had anxiety or depression may have a higher risk of broken heart syndrome.
NEW – The Essential Diabetes Book - Mayo Clinic Press
Check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from Mayo Clinic Press.
Age. Most people who have broken heart syndrome are older than 50.
A temporary squeezing of the large or small arteries of the heart may play a role. People who have broken heart syndrome also may have a change in the structure of the heart muscle.
Health InformationHealth InformationDiseases & Conditions A-ZSymptoms A-ZTests & Procedures A-ZDrugs & Supplements A-ZHealth BooksHealthy Living ProgramMayo Clinic Health LetterMayo Clinic Voice AppsHealthy LifestyleFeatured conditionsBrain tumor, breast cancer, colon cancer, congenital heart disease, heart arrhythmia.See more conditions.
Heart attacks are generally caused by a complete or near-complete blockage of a heart artery. In broken heart syndrome, the heart arteries are not blocked. But blood flow in the arteries of the heart may be reduced.
College of Medicine and ScienceCollege of Medicine and ScienceMayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical SciencesMayo Clinic Alix School of MedicineMayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional DevelopmentMayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical EducationMayo Clinic School of Health Sciences
Medicines are used to treat symptoms of broken heart syndrome.
Mayo Clinic on Incontinence - Mayo Clinic PressMayo Clinic on Incontinence
Nyman E, et al. Trigger factors in takotsubo syndrome — A systematic review of case reports. European Journal of Internal Medicine. 2019; doi:10.1016/j.ejim.2019.02.017.
Any persistent chest pain could be due to a heart attack. Call 911 or emergency services if you have new or unexplained chest pain. Also call if you have a very rapid or irregular heartbeat or shortness of breath.
Emergency medicines used to treat severe allergic reactions or severe asthma attacks.
Mayo Clinic Health Letter - FREE book - Mayo Clinic PressMayo Clinic Health Letter - FREE book
Lau C, et al. Survival and risk of recurrence of takotsubo syndrome. Heart. 2021; doi:10.1136/heartjnl-2020-318028.
Weiner MM, et al. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy: A clinical update for the cardiovascular anesthesiologist. Journal of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Anesthesia. 2017; doi:10.1053/j.jvca.2016.06.004.
Always tell your health care provider about the medicines you take, including those bought without a prescription. When starting a new medicine, talk to your provider about the potential risks and side effects.
In Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity, Hearty Durians can be bought from Saezuri for 36 Rupees and from Dayfah for 60 Rupees and sold at every service for 15 Rupees. They can also sometimes be obtained by destroying Wooden Boxes. Hearty Durians are a required ingredient in cooking Honeyed Fruits and Dubious Food.
Hearty Durians, as well as other fruits, can be used in a Cooking Pot to make Fruit Pie, Fruitcake, Honeyed Fruits, Simmered Fruit, Steamed Fruit, Fruit and Mushroom Mix, and Copious Simmered Fruit.
↑ "Hearty DurianThis fruit's mighty odor has earned it the nickname "king of fruits." It offers immense restorative powers." — Spoils (Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity)
↑ "Hearty DurianThis fruit's mighty odor has earned it the nickname "king of fruits." It offers immense restorative powers; dishes cooked with it will temporarily increase your maximum hearts." — Inventory (Breath of the Wild)
Content																																														Bosses																																	Characters																																	Dungeons																																	Enemies																																	Items																																	Locations																																	Objects																																	Quests																																	Songs																																	Game Translations
Hearty Durians can be eaten raw to restore three Hearts, but they can also be roasted by direct flames to become Roasted Hearty Durians. If one or more are cooked into a dish in a Cooking Pot, they will temporarily increase Link's maximum Hearts. At the Kochi Dye Shop, Hearty Durians are one of the ingredients that can be used to make Light Yellow Dye.
Navigation																																														Main Page																																	All Pages																																	Recent Changes																																	Random Page																																	Random File																																	About																																	Discord
"Hearty DurianThis fruit's mighty odor has earned it the nickname "king of fruits." It offers immense restorative powers; dishes cooked with it will temporarily increase your maximum hearts." — Inventory (Breath of the Wild)
"Hearty DurianThis fruit's mighty odor has earned it the nickname "king of fruits." It offers immense restorative powers." — Spoils (Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity)
Getting Involved																																														Getting Started																																	Guidelines																																	Knight Challenges																																	Rules																																	Sandbox																																	Wanted Pages
Want to contribute to this wiki?Sign up for an account, and get started!Come join the Zelda Wiki community Discord server!
The Hearty Durian's nickname, "king of fruits", is a reference to real-life Durian, which have the same nickname.
Hearty Durians are found growing on trees in wooded areas of the Faron Grasslands. They're purchasable from the travelling merchant, Chumin, as well Lorn's Fruit Stand in Gerudo Town. Red Hinoxes have the potential to drop Hearty Durians when killed.
Eating Hearty Durians whilst drinking alcoholic beverages is ill-advised, although reasons why are not provided in-game. This is another trend it shares with the real-life durian.
It is also useful to have one placed permanently in the player's base, along with a Campfire and a honey bath.
Wiki Community																																														Contribute																																							Help contents																															Things to do																																																Rules and guidelines																																							Rules																															Video policy																															Style guide																																																Community noticeboard																																	Admin noticeboard																																	Projects
The combined and continuous health regeneration from Heart Lanterns, Campfires, and honey can make many boss fights less difficult. Including one or more of these in any arena is usually a good idea.
Item mechanics																																							Mining speed																															Pickaxe power																															Placement																															Rarity																															Tooltips																															Use time																															Value
The Heart Lamp buff provides nearby players with a constant 1 health-per-second. The buff applies to any players standing within a rectangular area of 169×125[1] () / 100×84 () tiles centered on the Heart Lantern, providing a boost in health regeneration similar to the one granted by Campfires. The regeneration buffs from both items will stack together to provide a greater regeneration boost, and being within range of these items can also help to counteract the effects of damaging debuffs (such as Poisoned and On Fire!).
Player mechanics																																							Aggro																															Damage reduction																															Death																															Defense																															Fall damage																															Health																															Health regeneration																															Mana																															Movement speed																															Spawn
Nurse no longer charges for, or removes the potion cooldown, Heart Lantern, and Campfire buffs.
Desktop 1.4.2.3: Can now be purchased from the Princess in Celebrationmk10 worlds.
Pages with information based on outdated versions of Terraria's source code
In Celebrationmk10 worlds, the Heart Lantern can be purchased from the Princess for 750.
The Heart Lantern is a unique variant of lantern, a hanging furniture item, that emits moderate light while also providing the Heart Lamp health regeneration buff. It must be hung from the underside of blocks, like other lanterns. The Heart Lantern is also a mechanism that can be toggled if wired. Toggling it off will only deactivate the light source, not the buff.
↑ Information taken from the  PC 1.4.3.6 source code, method ScanAndExportToMain() in Terraria.SceneMetrics.cs. There may be inaccuracies, as the current  PC version is 1.4.4.9.
Combat mechanics																																							Attack speed																															Autoswing																															Critical hit																															Damage																															Knockback																															Velocity
Gameplay																																							Hardmode																															Classic Mode																															Expert Mode																															Master Mode																															Journey Mode																															Multiplayer
Desktop 1.2.3: Reduced Heart Lantern effect.Nurse no longer charges for, or removes the potion cooldown, Heart Lantern, and Campfire buffs.
Items																																							Weapons																															Tools																															Armor																															Accessories																															Potions																															Ores																															Furniture																															Blocks																															Background walls																															Vanity items
Guides																																							Getting started																															Walkthrough																															Class setups																															Crafting 101																															Game progression																															Maintaining world purity																															NPC happiness																															Farming resources																															Making money																															Bases
Information taken from the  PC 1.4.3.6 source code, method ScanAndExportToMain() in Terraria.SceneMetrics.cs. There may be inaccuracies, as the current  PC version is 1.4.4.9.
Advanced																																														Gameplay mechanics																																							Biome spread																															Day and night cycle																															Game controls																															Luck																															Moon phase																															NPC spawning																															Settings																															World Seed																															World size																																																Player mechanics																																							Aggro																															Damage reduction																															Death																															Defense																															Fall damage																															Health																															Health regeneration																															Mana																															Movement speed																															Spawn																																																Combat mechanics																																							Attack speed																															Autoswing																															Critical hit																															Damage																															Knockback																															Velocity																																																Item mechanics																																							Mining speed																															Pickaxe power																															Placement																															Rarity																															Tooltips																															Use time																															Value																																																Mods																																							Resource Packs																															Workshop Hub																															tModLoader																															Inventory editors																															Map viewers																																																Data IDs
As with the Campfire, it may be useful to keep a Heart Lantern in the hotbar in dangerous areas, so that it can be placed easily for quicker regeneration.
The Heart Lantern is a viable light source for NPC housing, despite its low light level.
The healing effect is uniform for all tiles within its range, and is unaffected by distance or "obstructive" blocks and walls.
Basics																																														Items																																							Weapons																															Tools																															Armor																															Accessories																															Potions																															Ores																															Furniture																															Blocks																															Background walls																															Vanity items																																																Characters																																							NPCs																															Enemies																															Bosses																															Critters																															Pets																															Minions																																																Biomes																																	Events																																	Gameplay																																							Hardmode																															Classic Mode																															Expert Mode																															Master Mode																															Journey Mode																															Multiplayer																																																Mechanics																																							Crafting																															Houses																															Buffs																															Bestiary																															Achievements																															Fishing																															Modifiers																																																Guides																																							Getting started																															Walkthrough																															Class setups																															Crafting 101																															Game progression																															Maintaining world purity																															NPC happiness																															Farming resources																															Making money																															Bases
Mods																																							Resource Packs																															Workshop Hub																															tModLoader																															Inventory editors																															Map viewers
Gameplay mechanics																																							Biome spread																															Day and night cycle																															Game controls																															Luck																															Moon phase																															NPC spawning																															Settings																															World Seed																															World size
