^ "New York's Auto Exports Increase-Big Jump in Cars Shipped Last Year-New Jersey Examines All Drivers" (PDF). The New York Times. 14 July 1913. p. 11. Retrieved 3 June 2009.
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Lutteroth, Johanna. "Der Lappen, der die Welt bedeutet". einestages (in German). Spiegel Online. Archived from the original on 1 August 2008. Retrieved 2 August 2008.
"The Motor Car Act, 1903 - The Motor Miscellany". Retrieved 23 May 2017.
In most international agreements the wording "driving permit" is used, for instance in the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic. In this article's country specific sections, the local spelling variant is used.
Prussia, then a kingdom within the German Empire, introduced compulsory licensing on 29 September 1903. A test on mechanical aptitude had to be passed and the Dampfkesselüberwachungsverein ("steam boiler supervision association") was charged with conducting these tests.[2] In 1910, the German imperial government mandated the licensing of drivers on a national scale, establishing a system of tests and driver's education requirements that was adopted in other countries.[2]
^ "Road Users' Code, Chapter 5 For All Drivers". Transport Department, Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Retrieved 8 November 2022.
Thai (5-year extended) licences are valid in the following countries: Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Brunei, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Philippines.
21 years old for issue of Driving License class: B2
"В Украине с 29 декабря появятся новые отметки в водительских удостоверениях". gordonua.com (in Russian). Retrieved 28 December 2021.
Driving licences are issued by subdivisions of the General Administration for Traffic Safety of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and grant the right to drive on-road vehicles only. The right to drive off-road vehicles is granted by tractorist-machinist's licence,[42] which is issued by state inspections of the supervision of the technical condition of self-propelled machines and other machinery Гостехнадзор [ru] (these state inspections are parts of the regional governments of federal subjects of Russia and may have different names). The Ministry of Agriculture approves the form of the license and the procedure for issuing it. There are 9 categories in tractorist-machinist's licence: AI (quad bikes, snowmobiles and other off-road vehicles with steering that is similar to motorcycle's steering), AII (wheeled cross-country vehicles weighing less than 3,500 kg, including amphibious snow-and-swamp vehicles such as TREKOL-39294, VIKING-29031, etc.), AIII (haul trucks), AIV (off-road buses), B (wheeled and caterpillar tractors with engine power less than 25,7 kW), C (wheeled tractors with engine power from 25,7 kW to 110,3 kW), D (wheeled tractors with engine power over 110,3 kW), E (caterpillar tractors with engine power over 25,7 kW), F (self-propelled agricultural machinery). To obtain the tractorist-machinist's license with AII category applicant must have at least 1-year driving experience by category B of driving licence, AIII category - category C of driving licence, AIV category - category D of driver's license. For getting the tractorist-machinist's licence applicant has to pass theoretical and practice exam on the program approved by the Ministry of Agriculture. If applicant doesn't have the driver's license he also has to pass theoretical exam on the program approved by the General Administration for Traffic Safety of the Ministry of Internal Affairs (knowledge of traffic rules). In the case of deprivation of driving licence by court decision, both licences are lost.
Wrecker (구난) – Allows one to drive a tow truck.
"Directgov *'exchange driving licence' interactive tool". Direct.gov.uk. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"Road Users' Code, Chapter 5 For All Drivers". Transport Department, Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Retrieved 8 November 2022.
"Convention on Road Traffic". Chapter XI: B, Convention No. 1. The United Nations Secretariat. 19 September 1949.
On 1 January 2016 new Turkish laws concerning driving licences were implemented.[44][45] The changes are intended to bring Turkey more in line with existing EU driving regulations and concern all road users in Turkey. A foreign national can drive in Turkey with an EU licence for 6 months. After 6 months it has to be exchanged for a Turkish licence. Application can be made to any Traffic Registration office but the foreign driving licence will not be returned. Instead they will be sent to the issuing authority of the country of origin i.e. for British nationals, DVLA. The DVLA says that expats can drive in the UK on a Turkish licence for up to 12 months, and if they wish to settle back in the UK, the Turkish licence can be exchanged for a UK license.[44]
"Texas Department of Public Safety". xdps.state.tx.us. Retrieved 27 September 2015.[permanent dead link]
Anonymous, "Better Auto Laws Are Now Needed," The New York Times, 1907-08-18, S3.
^ "How do I get my class 2 truck licence?". 21 August 2017.
"Brexit: What are the rules on driving in the EU after transition?"
"Design of UK Driving Licences after 31 January 2020 - a Freedom of Information request to Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency"
"ICBC - Driver licensing". Archived from the original on 28 September 2011.
Every vehicle driver must carry a Licencia de Conducir, which is issued by COSEVI (Consejo de Seguridad Vial) of the ministry of transport and public infrastructure (Ministerio de Obras Públicas y Transporte).
The US Embassy in Berlin, supported by the US Chamber of Commerce in Germany, continues to actively press all US states, territories, and Washington, D.C. to reach an agreement on the reciprocal recognition of driver's licenses with Germany, essentially a waiver of testing requirements.[84]
Carlos Josue Quinteros Berrios. "Primera Vez" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
^ "Driving with an overseas or interstate licence in NSW". NSW Government. 13 August 2021. Retrieved 3 January 2023.
Juvenil Particular—License for minors, allowing them to drive cars and pickup trucks
^ "About driver licences: Stage 1 – learner licence". NZ Transport Agency. Retrieved 8 December 2016.
For this permit to be granted there are three needed tests, practical driving (includes driving a car in simulated streets), theoretical driving (a multiple selection written test based on booklet issued by the education department or after taking a special course), and finally a medical test performed by a medical practitioner that tests eyesight, blood pressure and attests the presence of other diseases and behavior of the driver.
The exam includes theoretical and practical parts held on the same day. Reaction tests are conducted before the exam. The applicant gets a temporary ID valid for one year. It may be extended for five years, but only if the applicant lives in Thailand on a non-immigrant visa. An International Driving Permit is recognized in Thailand. With its help it is easy to get a local permit without doing the exams.
"American Driver's License - Germany - United States Diplomatic Mission". Archived from the original on 13 October 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
^ Administrator. "Clases de Licencia" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
A1 – to drive motorcycles with engine displacement more than 50cc and less than 175cc. A1 license has no expiry date
The American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators provides a standard for the design of driving permits and identification cards issued by AAMVA member jurisdictions, which include all 50 US states, the District of Columbia, and Canadian territories and provinces. The newest card design standard released is the 2020 AAMVA DL/ID Card Design Standard (CDS).[20][21]
21 years old for issue of Driving License class: C, FB2
^ "Driving license:Getting a driving license in Turkey". justlanded.com. Just Landed. Retrieved 4 July 2017.
"Exchanging your foreign driving licence". nidirect government services. 25 November 2015. Retrieved 21 February 2020.
Temporary visitors from the United States to France (less than 90 days) are permitted to drive with a valid US state driver's license. In addition to holding a US driver's license, visitors are advised (but not required) to carry an International Driving permit, or attach a French translation to their US state driver's license.
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
"Learners Licence". Learning Licence Test India. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
If you are a resident of France (holder of a carte de séjour or carte de résidence), you may drive in France with a valid US state driver's license for a one-year recognition period, beginning on the date of validity of the first carte de séjour (exception for students who are allowed to use their driver's license for the duration of their studies). In addition to having a US state driver's license, residents are also required to attach a French translation done by a sworn translator, or expert traducteur or traducteur assermenté.
"免許更新時講習について" [Regarding the Driver's License Renewal Period Training] (in Japanese). Fukui Prefecture. Retrieved 9 October 2014.
In order to convert a foreign permit to a Singapore driving licence, passing the Basic Theory Test (BTT) is required. Overseas theory test results are not admissible for consideration.[86]
"Applying driving licence for the first time". tra.go.tz. Tanzania Revenue Authority. Retrieved 24 March 2019. The objective of this system is to monitor and control the issuance of driving licenses with a view to addressing the problem of fake licences which are the cause for many road accidents. This is because the system allows everybody to obtain any license and drive any car one prefers. However under the current system holders of driving license of certain class will be obliged to drive only such a class upon which he was tested for and not otherwise. At the initial stage the applicant will have to undergo biometric measures and finger prints.
"New York State Department of Motor Vehicles - NYS DMV - NYSDMV - Driver - Vehicle". Nydmv.state.ny.us. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
3.1Africa																								3.1.1Egypt																											3.1.2Ghana																											3.1.3Kenya																											3.1.4Morocco																											3.1.5Nigeria																											3.1.6South Africa																											3.1.7Tanzania																											3.1.8Zimbabwe
^ "Altes vom Auto: Meldungen aus 125 Jahren:Tops und Flops (a summary of the highlights and lowlights of the first 125 years of motoring history)". Auto Motor u. Sport. 4: 16. 27 January 2011.
Carlos Josue Quinteros Berrios. "Homologacion Licencia Extranjera" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 8 May 2014. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
Pesada—Buses greater than 30 passengers, and trucks greater than 5 tons.
In 2018, ISO/IEC standard 18013 was published which established guidelines for the design format and data content of an ISO-compliant driving licence (IDL). The design approach is to establish a secure domestic driving permit (DDP) and accompanying booklet for international use, instead of the international driving permit (IDP) paper document.[14][15] The main ideology is a minimum acceptable set of requirements with regards to content and layout of the data elements, with sufficient freedom afforded to the issuing authorities of driving licences to meet domestic needs.
Residents in Sweden having a foreign permit can exchange it for a Swedish licence, if it is from an EEA country, Switzerland or Japan.[87] Foreign licences are valid if the holder has not been living in Sweden for more than a year (and some more requirements).
^ "Guía Licencia" (in Spanish). Venezuela: Instituto Nacional de Transporte Terrestre. 2012. Archived from the original on 19 January 2013. Retrieved 15 August 2018.
In Ontario, holders of a (7L) licence, which is given out by British Columbia, Alberta and Saskatchewan, are not restricted to being accompanied by a supervisor while driving in Ontario, until they get their full permit at the age of 18. Ontario has a reciprocal permit exchange scheme for Canadian provinces and territories, Canadian Forces Europe, and some other countries.[81]
"Application For Direct Issue Of Full Hong Kong Driving Licence" (PDF). Retrieved 4 February 2012.
Most government issuers of driving permits also provide a government-issued identification card with similar attributes to those residents within their jurisdictions who do not have or maintain a valid driving permit, making it easier for them to do things such as open a bank account and perform any other activities that require official identification. Identification cards serve as government-issued photo ID but do not enable a person to operate a motor vehicle, a fact typically noted on the ID via the phrase 'Not a driver's licence' or similar wording. This type of photo ID is referred to as a Photo Card in some jurisdictions (for example, the Ontario Photo Card).
^ "Driving in Moscow – Russian road rules". We heart Moscow. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
^ "List of contracting party states in the current version of the German International Driving Permit according to the 1926 Convention on Motor Traffic" (PDF) (in German). Bundesministerium der Justiz und für Verbraucherschutz (Federal Ministry for Justice and Consumer protection of the Federal Republic of Germany. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
Other countries in Europe also introduced driving tests during the twentieth century, the last of them being Belgium where, until as recently as 1977, it was possible to purchase and hold a permit without having to undergo a driving test.[6]
Large Trailer (대형견인차) – Allows one to drive all types of trailer.
^ Haron, Sharif (4 February 2012). "Concern over teenage driving safety". New Straits Times. Archived from the original on 4 February 2012. Retrieved 22 January 2014.
Until the UK left the European Union on 1 February 2020, UK driving licences were European driving licences. During the transition period EU law continued to apply to the UK in accordance with the withdrawal agreement,[51] and hence, UK driving licences were valid in the EU and, EU driving licences in the UK until the transition period ended 31 December 2020. The EU flag was removed from UK driving licences when the transition period ended.[52][53] From 1 January 2021, UK licence holders are still able to use their driving licence to drive in the EU for short visits, with some exceptions.[54][55] International Driving Permits, as well as arrangements within the Common Travel Area will facilitate driving possibilities between the UK and the EU/EEA countries in those cases.
A – to drive private passenger or cargo vehicle with weight allowed not exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb)
"US Drivers License Application". US Immigration Support: Your Guide to US Visas, Green Cards, and Citizenship. Archived from the original on 5 July 2010. Retrieved 1 October 2010.
In the United Kingdom most drivers are not required to carry their "Driving Licence". A driver may be required by a constable or vehicle examiner to produce this, but may provide it at a specified police station within seven days;[18] the police issue a form for this purpose.[19]
"For organ donor entry column of driver's license (Japanese)" (in Japanese). Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 22 July 2013. Retrieved 22 July 2013.
^ "Road Traffic Act 1988". Gov.UK. HM Government. Retrieved 25 August 2014. Section 7b refers to providing "licences" within 7 days.
General (보통) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 15 seats, an emergency motor vehicle with less than 12 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 12 tonnes, a construction equipment which weighs less than 3 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers), a special motor vehicle which weighs less than 10 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers).
New E-Smart Card driving licences are available in Sri Lanka. These cards are intended for use in the proposed "Point System".
"New-style driving licences and number plates mark one-year anniversary of Brexit as EU flag is removed"
Motorized Bicycle (원동기장치자전거) – Allows one to drive a motorcycle under 125cc.
"State of Delaware Division of Motor Vehicles - Driver's License Over 18 FAQ's"
The minimum age in Iceland for a D1 class licence is 21 years old and D class (and DE class) license is 23 years old, the same rules apply as with a C/CE class license.
The current licence style, introduced in 2011, is a laminated plastic card similar to the European driving licence card in dimensions and outward appearance, with the bearer's photo and name (in Latin and Cyrillic scripts), place/date of issue, allowed categories, and signature. The reverse of the card features a detailed list of allowed categories. This new style is fully compliant with the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, and therefore is acceptable in all its signatory states and countries. Older credit-card-style and booklet-style licenses are also occasionally seen although they are no longer issued and are increasingly rare as a result. The Russian driving licence is also sometimes supplemented by a special card called "временное разрешение" (temporary permission), which serves for registering offense points and as a temporary licence if the primary license has been seized by the authorities for serious traffic offenses.[40] This supplement has been abolished and reinstated a countless number of times as the views of the traffic police change.
In 1949, the United Nations hosted the Geneva Convention on Road Traffic that standardised rules on roads, occupants, rules, signs, driver's permits and such. It specified that national "driving permits" should be pink and that an "International Driving Permit" for driving in a number of countries should have grey covers with white pages and that "The entire last page shall be drawn up in French".[12]
^ "กรมการขนส่งทางบก" [Department of Land Transport] (in Thai). Thailand: กรมการขนส่งทางบก [Department of Land Transport]. Retrieved 21 September 2018.
B1 – to drive private passenger or cargo vehicle with weight allowed exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb)
The Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA), which licenses drivers in Great Britain (England, Scotland and Wales) but not Northern Ireland, exchanges full driving permits issued by:[88]
The categories have become more complicated with subcategories. The letter E is now always used with another category.
This page was last edited on 19 February 2023, at 03:46 (UTC).
Frederick H. Elliott, "Working Out New Auto Law In New York," New York Times 1910-10-16, 3.
5.1Issues when moving permanently from one country or one state to another
"Transport - Driving license". Ec.europa.eu. 22 October 2003. Archived from the original on 11 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
The classes above are also allowed by the age of the driver according to the class of the driving license. The ages are accordingly issued to the different classes of the driver's choice:
A District of Columbia driver's license may be obtained while maintaining an out-of-country driver's license. D.C. driver's licenses may vary for non-US citizens, depending on visa classification. The written test is required for non-US citizens who possess an out-of-country driver's license.[91]
Drivers are legally obliged to carry a valid driving licence whilst driving and this must be produced if required to do so by a police officer.
Even the so-called "Paper Drivers" who hold licenses but never drive, who technically are without violation or accident, can lose their eligibility to obtain a gold license for several reasons including if their car is used by a drunk driver or to support drunk driving in any way.
The specifications of the layout of the booklet is defined in Annex G of ISO/IEC 18013-1:2018. There are two options; a booklet with some personalisation or a booklet with no personalisation. The booklet shall be marginally larger than an ID-1 size card, with an insert pocket for storage of the card, and for convenient carrying of the booklet. The front cover should include the logo of the UN or the issuing country and the words "Translation of Driving Licence" and "Traduction du Permis de Conduire ".
Driving permits in the Philippines consists of three types. These are Student Permit, Non-Professional and Professional. The minimum age for driving in the Philippines is 17 years old provided that the driver has applied for a Student Permit and is accompanied by a person with a Professional or Non-Professional permit. An applicant can only apply for a Non-Professional driving license one month after acquiring a Student Permit. An applicant needs to have a Non-Professional driving license for 1 week in order to be eligible for a Professional driving license. An applicant must pass both the Land Transportation Office written exam and a practical driving exam. If the applicant fails the tests, the applicant must wait for a month before being able to take the tests again.
"DriveTest - Exchanging a Reciprocal License". Drivetest.ca. Archived from the original on 30 January 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
In the Dominican Republic, the driving permit number is the same as the citizen's ID number.
Small (소형) – Allows one to drive a tricycle and a motorcycle. Not issued since 1984.
^ "Costos de Licencia de Conducir" (in Spanish). Csv.go.cr. Archived from the original on 15 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
^ "American Driver's License - Germany - United States Diplomatic Mission". Archived from the original on 13 October 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
"Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2 February 2021. Retrieved 26 January 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
A New York State driver's license may be obtained by a resident of another country. If the driver has a driver's license from any nation except Canada, they must pass a written test, complete a 5-hour pre-licensing course, and pass a road test to qualify for a driver's license.[93]
"American Driver's License - Germany - United States Diplomatic Mission"
"SOS - CDL Group Designations and Endorsements". www.michigan.gov. Retrieved 1 September 2017.
^ "Brexit: What are the rules on driving in the EU after transition?". BBC News. 27 December 2020. Retrieved 29 December 2020.
20 years old for issue of Driving License class: B1
^ Asa Bennett (27 January 2020). "How will the Brexit transition period work?". Telegraph.
"กรมการขนส่งทางบก" [Department of Land Transport] (in Thai). Thailand: กรมการขนส่งทางบก [Department of Land Transport]. Retrieved 21 September 2018.
On the federal level, motor vehicles with a curb weight of GCWR of 26,001 lb (11,794 kg) or more, a vehicle designed to transport 16 or more passengers (driver included), or a vehicle transporting hazardous materials can only be driven by an operator carrying a Commercial Driver License (Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986). Upon successful completion of theory and practical testing, endorsements can be applied to a CDL to allow legal transport of specialty types of goods:
In the United States, New Zealand, Australia, the UK, the Republic of Ireland and sometimes Canada, people who drive commercially are required to have permits. The cost of taking the tests and examinations usually means that an employer will subsidize their drivers.
^ "Vehicle Inspectorate Department (VID)". Zimbabwe. 2015. Retrieved 24 March 2019.
^ Carlos Josue Quinteros Berrios. "Homologacion Licencia Extranjera" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 8 May 2014. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
B2 – to drive private or commercial vehicle under 9 seats, cargo vehicle or tractor with weight allowed not exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb). B2 license is valid for 10 years.
18 years old for issue of Driving License class: A1, A2, A3, A4, B1, B2
"District of Columbia: Department of Motor Vehicles - Services - Drivers' Licenses - Getting Your Learners' Permit"
Japanese driver's licenses bear one of the following 3 colors on the expiration date.
^ "Motorcycles you can ride". Directgov. Retrieved 8 June 2011.
Haron, Sharif (4 February 2012). "Concern over teenage driving safety". New Straits Times. Archived from the original on 4 February 2012. Retrieved 22 January 2014.
at the age of 21 - categories D1, D, D1E, DE, T (passenger buses, trams and trolleybuses).
^ "For organ donor entry column of driver's license (Japanese)" (in Japanese). Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 22 July 2013. Retrieved 22 July 2013.
Australia, Barbados, the Faroe Islands, Hong Kong, Japan, Monaco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, South Africa, and Zimbabwe,
If approved, drivers from Connecticut, District of Columbia, Florida, Indiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee will be exempted from the road tests only.
"Draft: Information Technology — Personal Identification — ISO Compliant Driving Licence — Part 1: Physical Characteristics and Basic Data Set"
As stated on the application form for direct issue of a full Hong Kong driving licence (Rev. 11/2008),[85] when a person has documentary evidence to the Commissioner for Transport's satisfaction that all of the following apply, the person is eligible for direct issue of a Hong Kong permit:
H Hazardous materials (written test and background check through the Transportation Security Administration)
"List of contracting party states in the current version of the German International Driving Permit according to the 1926 Convention on Motor Traffic" (PDF) (in German). Bundesministerium der Justiz und für Verbraucherschutz (Federal Ministry for Justice and Consumer protection of the Federal Republic of Germany. Retrieved 27 February 2022.
A new credit card format driving licence has been introduced. The licence bears the digital photo, signature and blood group information of the card holder. A record of traffic violations is stored automatically in the database. To obtain a driving licence one must register for a learner's permit at any of the local District Police's designated licence offices and then, after 42 days, one can apply for test for a regular full licence.
There is an online procedure hosted by Nepal's Department of Transport Management with a written exam only for new applicants. Subsequent written exams are not necessary to add additional categories to an existing permit. A practical, road test is undertaken after passing the written exam.
Saint Helena / Ascension Island / Tristan da Cunha (United Kingdom)
Its main regulations about drivers permits are in Annex 6 (Domestic Driving Permit) and Annex 7 (International Driving Permit). The currently active version of those is in force in each contracting party no later than "29 March 2011" (Article 43).
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
The right to drive a vehicle is granted to persons who have achieved:
27 years old for issue of Driving License class: E, FD, FE
Third Degree License (motor vehicles for the private transportation of persons, with a capacity of up to nine seats, including that of the driver; vehicles destined to the transport of load, whose maximum weight does not exceed two thousand five hundred kilograms): Type "A", to people over sixteen years and under eighteen, subject to the special legal regime; Type "B", to persons over eighteen years of age.
^ "Learners Licence". Learning Licence Test India. Retrieved 28 March 2019.
From 29 December 2021, a mark on passing a practical exam on cars with an automatic transmission in the form of a code "78" will appear in Ukrainian driver's licenses.[48]
^ "ГАИ РУ – Информационный портал: автомобильные новости, оплата штрафов ГИБДД – Форум автомобилистов – Справочная информация для автовладельцев" (in Russian). Archived from the original on 10 May 2000. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
The theoretical exam must be taken in either German, French, or Italian. In some cantons it is possible to take it in English.
The minimum age for a permit to ride two wheelers is 16. For light vehicles with four wheels it is 18. After 2 years experience with light vehicles a permit can be obtained to drive private hire and heavy vehicles. However, once the age of 60 years is reached permits can not be renewed for private hire and heavy vehicles.[37]
"Application For Direct Issue Of Full Hong Kong Driving Licence"
17 years old for issue of Driving License class: A, C, and D
Most issuing authorities require holders of foreign permits taking up residence in their jurisdiction to obtain a local driving permit within a limited time, typically 6 months or 1 year. In most cases, the driver must follow the full local procedure for obtaining a permit, but some jurisdictions have mutual recognition agreements and will exchange the foreign permit for a local one without the need to undertake an additional driving test.
^ "Advanced driving courses". NZ Transport Agency. 5 July 2017.
"福岡県警察 渡辺通優良運転者免許更新センター（渡辺通ゴールド免許センター" [Fukuoka Prefectural Police Watanabe Avenue Excellent Driver License Renewal Center (Watanabe Avenue Gold License Center)] (in Japanese). 福岡県警察 (Fukuoka Prefectural Police). Retrieved 8 October 2014.
"Conversion of Foreign Driving Licence". Singapore Government. Archived from the original on 28 June 2011. Retrieved 4 February 2016.
^ "State of Delaware Division of Motor Vehicles - Driver's License Over 18 FAQ's". Dmv.de.gov. Archived from the original on 24 October 2004. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
An exception is the EU, where permits do not need to be exchanged since the introduction of the "common EU driving licence scheme".
Many countries, including Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States, have no national identification cards. Since many people do have driving permits, they are often accepted as proof of identity. In some territories, non-drivers can apply for identification-only cards with a similar format to a driving permit. Most identity cards and driving permits are credit card size—the "ID-1" size and shape defined in ISO/IEC 7810.
"New York State Commercial Driver's Manual". Retrieved 25 October 2006.
^ "District of Columbia: Department of Motor Vehicles - Services - Drivers' Licenses - Getting Your Learners' Permit". Dmv.dc.gov. Archived from the original on 26 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
El Salvador licenses (as well as vehicle circulation cards) contain a chip which can be read by putting the card in a chip reader.
^ Haber, Hürriyet (22 February 2016). "Ehliyet yenileme randevu işlemleri nasıl yapılır?". Gündem (in Turkish). Hürriyet Gazetecilik. Retrieved 4 July 2017.
Mandatory licensing for drivers in the United Kingdom came into force on 1 January 1904[3] after the Motor Car Act 1903 received royal assent. Every car owner had to register their vehicle with their local government authority and be able to prove registration of their vehicle on request. The minimum qualifying age was set at 17. The "driving licence" gave its holder 'freedom of the road' with a maximum 20 mph (32 km/h) speed limit.[4] Compulsory testing was introduced in 1934, with the passing of the Road Traffic Act.[5]
India introduced the driving license chip card in October 2019, and set up a nationwide driving licence database to fight against duplication.[31]
The minimum age to obtain a driving licence is 16 years. During the first two years after obtaining the licence the driver is called a beginner (Macedonian: почетник) and has limited rights concerning driving speed and when he/she can drive without a co-driver in the front seat who doesn't have a drivers licence (until 23:00). Beginning in 2007, the driving licence format was changed from a pink booklet to a credit-card sized card.
"Travel documents for EU nationals". Your Europe. 7 July 2017. Retrieved 27 August 2017.
^ "New-style driving licences and number plates mark one-year anniversary of Brexit as EU flag is removed". GOV.UK. Retrieved 9 March 2021.
"A Brief History of Driver Education in the UK". derf.org.uk.
The European driving licence was introduced to replace the 110 different plastic and paper driving permits. The common format with the same information in the same place on all permits allows documents to be understood, even if they are in a different language.
Even though Switzerland is an EFTA member state, it is not a member of the European Economic Area. Switzerland is instead linked to the EU by a series of bilateral agreements and has generally adopted much of the harmonized EU legislation with regard to driving licenses. Swiss licences can be exchanged in most EEA countries. Switzerland has, since the 2000s, used a system similar to the EU system of vehicle categories and issued credit-card licences that resemble EEA-style.
^ "Production of Documents". Sussex Police. Archived from the original on 14 May 2012. Retrieved 27 March 2012.
"About driver licences: New Zealand's driver licensing system". NZ Transport Agency. Retrieved 8 December 2016.
Every citizen can solicit a driver's license at age 18, after being issued the first time, the license must be renewed after two years, and every successive occasion after five years.[56] Foreigners may also obtain a drivers' license if they have residency.
Issues when moving permanently from one country or one state to another[edit]
Minimum age to obtain category B driving licence in Poland is 18, category C1 and C1+E is also 18. The minimum age to obtain category C and C+E is 21 years of age. Category D (large bus) is 24.
A2 – to drive motorcycles with any engine displacement. A2 license has no expiry date
The legal driving age of Moroccan citizens is 18.[citation needed]
^ "Conversion of Foreign Driving Licence". Singapore Government. Archived from the original on 28 June 2011. Retrieved 4 February 2016.
Besides this document the driver must carry the national identity card (Cédula de Identidad), however both documents use the same identification number, the national identity card being the basis of the driver's license number.
In the United States, this is governed by the Uniform Anatomical Gift Act. In New Zealand and the Republic of Ireland, willingness to donate organs for transplant is also listed on driving permits. In Australia, the system of notating organ donation requests on permits was replaced in July 2005 with a national registration system and the issue of special cards. In Great Britain (England, Wales and Scotland), code "115" is printed on the reverse of their driving permit to indicate that details are on the National Health Service (NHS) Organ Donor Register.
E – to drive private or commercial vehicle over 30 seats. E license is valid for 5 years
Texas does not require drivers from Canada, France, Germany, or Taiwan to take the written and practical tests, but drivers must agree to a vision test.[94]
The minimum age for eligibility for a learner's permit is 18 years. Drivers' information is recorded against the Computerized National ID Card number which is issued at the age of 18. The Licence Issuing Authorities vary in each district and work under the relevant District Police.
Fourth and Fifth Degree Licenses: To persons over 21 years of age to drive vehicles with a capacity of up to nine seats destined for public transport of passengers and cargo vehicles, whose maximum weight does not exceed six thousand kilograms. Persons over twenty-five years old, to drive all types of vehicles whatever their capacity or use.[72]
B2 Public (B2 UMUM) - to drive commercial vehicles for towing or pull cart trailer with heavy patch that are allowed to train more than 1,000 kg trailer
The person has held a full driving licence (not an International Driving Permit) for three years issued by one of the following countries or territories: Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bermuda, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Guernsey, Iceland, India, Ireland, the Isle of Man, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jersey, Luxembourg, Macao, Malaysia, Namibia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, or the United States.
"Foreign Driver's Licences" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 August 2010. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
Haber, Hürriyet (22 February 2016). "Ehliyet yenileme randevu işlemleri nasıl yapılır?". Gündem (in Turkish). Hürriyet Gazetecilik. Retrieved 4 July 2017.
^ "Drivers can renew licence on birthday from Nov 21". The Malaysian Insider. 15 November 2011. Archived from the original on 1 February 2014. Retrieved 22 January 2014.
"Production of Documents". Sussex Police. Archived from the original on 14 May 2012. Retrieved 27 March 2012.
Driving licences are issued by the Tanzania Revenue Authority. The legal driving age for motorcycles is 16 and for other motor vehicles is 18.[24]
^ Frederick H. Elliott, "Working Out New Auto Law In New York," New York Times 1910-10-16, 3.
^ "Florida officials sign a new agreement wit South Korea" (PDF). www.flhsmv.gov (Press release). 21 October 2011. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 January 2012. Retrieved 20 January 2012.
Type 2 (2종) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 10 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 4 tonnes, when the driver is driving with somebody with a non-practice license.
"Road Traffic Act 1988". Gov.UK. HM Government. Retrieved 25 August 2014. Section 7b refers to providing "licences" within 7 days.
In South Korea, one must hold a driving license called "운전면허증" or an international driving permit. The international driving permit is valid for 1 year starting from the date of entry. If one is going to stay in South Korea longer than a year, it is necessary to change the international permit to a local permit by visiting the driver's license testing center.
^ "Texas Administrative Code". Info.sos.state.tx.us. Archived from the original on 13 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
^ "New York State Department of Motor Vehicles - NYS DMV - NYSDMV - Driver - Vehicle". Nydmv.state.ny.us. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
3.5North America																								3.5.1Barbados																											3.5.2Canada																											3.5.3Costa Rica																											3.5.4El Salvador																											3.5.5Jamaica																											3.5.6Mexico																											3.5.7Trinidad and Tobago																											3.5.8United States
Zimbabwean drivers licences are issued by the Vehicle Inspection Department (VID) which is an arm of the government under the Ministry of Transport & Infrastructural Development.[25] Drivers can be licensed for class 4 vehicles at the age of sixteen and eighteen for class 2 vehicles. Public transport vehicles are in class 1 and the minimum age is twenty five. A theory based learners licence which has 25 questions is the first step. The questions for this test include diagrams, road rules and road signs and has to be answered in under eight minutes. After passing the test, the candidate gets a provisional learners license which enables the candidate to drive under supervision from a driving instructor or anyone with a full driving licence.
^ a b c d .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Lutteroth, Johanna. "Der Lappen, der die Welt bedeutet". einestages (in German). Spiegel Online. Archived from the original on 1 August 2008. Retrieved 2 August 2008.
"Guía Licencia" (in Spanish). Venezuela: Instituto Nacional de Transporte Terrestre. 2012. Archived from the original on 19 January 2013. Retrieved 15 August 2018.
^ "New Residents of Québec and Holders of a Driver's Licence Issued Outside Québec". Saaq.gouv.qc.ca. 19 January 2011. Archived from the original on 4 March 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
^ "6 CFR § 37.29 - Prohibition against holding more than one REAL ID card or more than one driver's license". LII / Legal Information Institute. Retrieved 8 August 2020.
In 1909, the Convention with Respect to the International Circulation of Motor Vehicles[10] recognized the need for qualifications, examination, and authorization for international driving.
an "International Driving Permit" conforming to the provisions of Annex 7 to the convention, on condition that it is presented with the corresponding domestic driving permit;
"International Driving permit in UK". The American Journal of International Law. ITCA. 4 (4 Supplement:Official Documents): 316–328. October 1910. JSTOR 2212082.
The laws relating to the licensing of drivers vary between jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions, a permit is issued after the recipient has passed a driving test, while in others, a person acquires their permit before beginning to drive. Different categories of permit often exist for different types of motor vehicles, particularly large trucks and passenger vehicles. The difficulty of the driving test varies considerably between jurisdictions, as do factors such as age and the required level of competence and practice.
One needs a minimum of 15 years to receive a driver's license (a juvenile license).[57] To get a new license, one needs to pass a vision test, a written test, and a driving test. These tests are given at accredited driving schools. Foreigners with a license from another country can obtain an El Salvador license if they have residency. They will also have to pass a vision test.[58] The driver's license number is the same as the person's Tax ID number.
"Permis de conduire - Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires étrangères" (in French). Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires étrangères. Retrieved 1 February 2021.
"EU-Turkey relations". European Information on Enlargement & Neighbours. EurActiv.com. 23 September 2004. Archived from the original on 6 December 2006. Retrieved 26 August 2008.
In 1968, the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, ratified in 1977 and further updated in 2011, further modernised these agreements.[13]
A minimum driving age often exists regardless of possession of a foreign permit; an American cannot drive below the local minimum age in Europe, nor can a 17-year-old Briton drive in mainland Europe where the minimum age is 18.[75]
^ "В Украине с 29 декабря появятся новые отметки в водительских удостоверениях". gordonua.com (in Russian). Retrieved 28 December 2021.
Administrator. "Clases de Licencia" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
"Getting Your Driver's Licence". Youth Information Centers. Jamaica: National Centre for Youth Developmen. 2010. Retrieved 11 January 2020.
at the age of 16, it is allowed to open categories A1, A (mopeds and motorcycles);
Particular—License for adults, for cars, vans up to 17 passengers, and pickup trucks.
Certain states, such as California,[62] Florida,[63] Michigan,[64] and New York[65] prohibit triple trailers statewide.
The legal driving age is 18 years old. The permit must include:
B2 - to drive heavy equipment vehicles, towing vehicles, or motor vehicles with attractive patch or trailer train individuals with severe or patches are allowed to train more than 1,000 kg (2,200 lb) trailer/s
The licence was originally issued on any date during a period of residence of not less than 6 months in the country or place of issue (entry and departure stamps on a passport, school transcript or employer's testimonial with employment period specified are accepted as proof); or
Since 9 February 2017, the service of obtaining an international driver's license has become available in Ukraine. It is issued without exams on the basis of a national driver's license, valid for 3 years.[47]
^ "International Driving Permit". Australian Automobile Association. Retrieved 28 April 2019.
all of the above does not apply to learner-driver permits;
In the United States, a holder of a driver's license is typically legally allowed to operate a motor vehicle up to 26,000 pounds if no hazardous materials and no more than 16 persons (driver included) are in the vehicle. Most jurisdictions that grant driver's licenses only permit the holder to operate a roadworthy vehicle consisting of four or more wheels. If not one must get a Grade M license which only allows for one to operate a vehicle with no more than three wheels, such as a tricycle. To operate a two-wheel motorized vehicle with a sustainable speed greater than 30 mph (48 km/h) requires an endorsement on the license, typically after successful completion of a theory (written) and practical test.
an international driving permit shall only be issued by the contracting party in whose territory the holder has their normal residence and that issued the domestic driving permit or that recognized the driving permit issued by another contracting party; it shall not be valid for use in that territory.
In Canada and the United States, driving permits are issued by the provinces (or territories) and states, respectively and do not look the same nationwide. They are also used as a de facto or government-issued identification document for the holder.
Small (소형) – Allows one to drive all types of motorcycle.
There are different plastic cards for motorcycles and vehicles. Therefore, documents and exams need to be done twice.[38]
"domestic driving permits" conforming to the provisions of Annex 6 to the convention;
Government-issued ID cards are also issued to out-of-state residents and those who do not drive automobiles.[citation needed] For example, college students enrolled in an institution of higher education outside their state of residence receive an ID Card (for example, a domiciled Texas resident enrolled at UCLA where the individual retains their Texas Driver License and holds a California state issued ID card) which is used for bank account and financial affairs. This is also applicable to those who own business assets and not domiciled in a state or city as a resident (for example, someone domiciled in Los Angeles and owning either a business or real estate property in Florida). In the U.S, no individual is permitted to hold multiple valid driver licenses simultaneously.[22]
The system for handling the penalty points remains different in each country, for the existence of points, initial number of points, revolving, and number of points removed (or added) for each penalty.
5.1Issues when moving permanently from one country or one state to another																								5.1.1Australia																											5.1.2Canada																											5.1.3France																											5.1.4Germany																											5.1.5Hong Kong																											5.1.6Singapore																											5.1.7Sweden																											5.1.8United Kingdom																								5.1.8.1Great Britain																											5.1.8.2Northern Ireland																														5.1.9United States
Egyptian citizens are entitled to a driver's licence once they have reached the age of 18. To obtain their licences, applicants must pass a driving test as well as several computer test. To pass, all a person had to do was drive six metres forward and then reverse six metres. The test was updated to make it more difficult; now the applicant has to get 8 out of 10 answers correct in a computer test, then pass a forward and reverse S-track test in addition to an assessment of parking skills.
B11 – to drive private passenger under 9 seats, cargo vehicle or tractor with weight allowed not exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb) with automatic transmission. B11 license is not allowed to practice. B11 license is valid until male reach 60 years old and female reach 55 years old
In Venezuela the driving permit number is the same as the citizen's ID number.
S School Bus (written and driving test, background check, sex offender registry check, and P endorsement)
In Japan, South Korea, and Singapore, driving permit cards are widely used as identification.[16]
Those who hold a gold license have the added benefit of qualifying for the Superior Drivers Course at the time of renewal, a significantly shorter and less-expensive renewal process. In some cases, they can bypass the main license center and have their license renewed at a separate Superior Drivers License Renewal Center.[34]
"lplate - Zimbabwe Provisional Driving Lessons". Zimbabwe. Retrieved 24 March 2019.
For motorcycles and heavier vehicles, the regulations are different, and some agrarian vehicles can be driven without a permit. As of 2011, a 45-minute driving lesson costs around SFr 90, while the various fees and theoretical instruction costs associated with getting a car driving licence can amount to up to SFr 600, without counting the costs for the two days of further training.
Foreign licence conversion is only granted for class 2B and class 3 qualified driving licences.
Driver's licensing in Ghana is conducted by the nation's Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authority. The legal driving age is 18.
The driving licence was obtained by passing the relevant driving test(s) in the issuing country or territory; and
^ "Foreign Driver's Licences" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 August 2010. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
every driver of a motor vehicle must hold appropriate documentation;
The test phase consists of a theory based test followed by a short practical test. Only those who pass the theory test are allowed to take the practical test. The whole test stage is a single day process where both tests are to be taken the same day. The driving licence currently issued holds basic information of the driver including name, Father's name, date of birth, address, authorized vehicle types, emergency contact, blood group, fingerprint impression, driver photo. The licence also has a magnetic strip though its viability is yet to be made public.
"Requirements for Obtaining a Driving Licence". Transport Department, Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Retrieved 8 November 2022.
"Texas Administrative Code". Info.sos.state.tx.us. Archived from the original on 13 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
^ "California Commercial Driver Handbook". Archived from the original on 11 October 2003. Retrieved 25 October 2006.
"Department of Motor Vehicles Virginia" (PDF). dmv.virginia.gov. Retrieved 27 September 2015.
^ "Texas Department of Public Safety". xdps.state.tx.us. Retrieved 27 September 2015.[permanent dead link]
^ "免許更新時講習について" [Regarding the Driver's License Renewal Period Training] (in Japanese). Fukui Prefecture. Retrieved 9 October 2014.
The minimum age for getting a driving licence in Norway is 16 for A1, T (tractor), 18 for A-C1, 21 for C/D1 and 24 for D. The driver's licenses issued before 2013 are revoked when he/she has reached an age of 100. The driving licences for A-B, BE, S and T issued after 2013 are always revoked after 15 years, and can be renewed after that for more 15 years. For persons aged 60–75, the driving licence becomes invalid before the 75th birthday and subsequently a valid health certificate is needed. Then a driving licences is issued with the same length as the health certificate. The driving licences for C-D1E are revoked after 5 years and can be renewed after that for 5 more years and, with a valid health certificate a new license for C-D1E is issued every year after the age of 70.
People older than 70 have to undergo strict medical tests in order to obtain a permit that has limited validity and requires renewal after a certain period.
The minimum driving age in the United Kingdom is 16 for mopeds under 50 cc (3.1 cu in), and 17 for cars and motorcycles. Access to motorcycles producing more than 25 kW (34 hp) is restricted to riders with two years experience or aged 21.[49] The British Overseas Territories and the British Crown dependencies issue their own driving licences. There is no legal requirement for a non-professional driver to carry a driving licence in the UK whilst driving, although it must be produced at a police station within seven days, if required to do so by a police officer.[50]
Second Degree License (Motorcycles): to 16 years old persons (Type "A", for motorcycles less than 150 cm3 engine capacity) andto 18 years old persons (Type "B", to drive motorcycles of any engine capacity).
"Appendix C to Part 658". Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. Archived from the original on 13 February 2008. Retrieved 4 February 2008.
Many groupings of countries have agreed to recognize driving permits issued by the authorities of any of their members. Examples include the European Union and the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), where holders of permits issued by any member state can drive in all member states. Most countries worldwide will also recognize the permits of citizens of foreign states wishing to drive as visitors. All EU member countries now issue permits in a standard format, regardless of the language of the permit.[73]
^ Anonymous, "Better Auto Laws Are Now Needed," The New York Times, 1907-08-18, S3.
Licensing departments in many countries add an organ donation option on application forms. Sometimes a small picture of a heart or the term Organ Donor is printed on the driving permit, to indicate the holder's agreement to donate their organs in case of sudden death, such as after a collision.
The minimum age in Iceland to get a C1 class (vehicles up to 7,500 kg (16,500 lb) GVWR) is 18, for a C class (vehicles exceeding 7,500 kg) one will have to have obtained a 12-point licence (obtainable without getting a ticket for a whole year) and have reached the age of 21 years.
"domestic driving permits" issued by a contracting party shall be recognised in the territory of another contracting party until this territory becomes the place of normal residence of their holder;
In Trinidad and Tobago, a Learner's Permit can be obtained from age 17. Driver's Permits are issued by the Licensing Authority, which is governed by the Ministry of Works and Transport. In order to legally operate any motor vehicle in Trinidad and Tobago, whether it is on or off public-owned-roads, the operator of the motor vehicle must be in possession of a valid Driver's Permit on their person and is legally endorsed for that class of vehicle. Contravening this provision could warrant a fine of up to TT$1,500 and imprisonment.[citation needed]
Type 2 (2종) – Non-Commercial VehiclesGeneral (보통) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 10 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 4 tonnes, a special motor vehicle which weighs less than 3.5 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers).Small (소형) – Allows one to drive all types of motorcycle.Motorized Bicycle (원동기장치자전거) – Allows one to drive a motorcycle under 125cc.
The age to obtain a Driver's Licence/permis de conduire in Canada varies by province, as do the necessary procedures. The minimum age for obtaining a permit to drive unaccompanied in most provinces is 16.[citation needed]
As of November 2011, drivers can renew their licence on their birthday, rather than expiry date.[36]
"driving permits" can be issued only after passing theoretical and practical exams, which are regulated by each country or jurisdiction;
^ "Indian government to introduce universal smart card driving license across the country". Cartoq. 29 June 2019. Retrieved 27 January 2021.
"New Residents of Québec and Holders of a Driver's Licence Issued Outside Québec". Saaq.gouv.qc.ca. 19 January 2011. Archived from the original on 4 March 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"About drivers licences: Stage 2 – restricted licence". NZ Transport Agency.
In Mexico the issue of a licencia para conducir is regulated by each state, and they all have different rules and requirements. However, all state issued driving permits are recognized across Mexico, and International Driving Permits (IDP) are also recognized.
In Turkey you must be at least 18 years old in order to drive a car or motorbike and at least 16 to drive a motorbike (up to 125cc, unless 18+). The driving test comprises a practical and theory test, which has been recently made tougher in order to meet European Union regulations.[46]
Russia was one of the first countries to create a driving licence.[citation needed] In 1895, the mayor of Saint Petersburg, Baron von Wahl issued permits to ride “motorised bicycles.” The year following, the Minister of Railways and Communication laid down the first code for cars. Russia's first licences were issued in 1900 by Saint Petersburg authorities,[citation needed] and Russia joined an international convention in 1909.[citation needed] However, due to a relatively small number of cars, the attempts to create a standardized Russian licence were rather sporadic and limited to major urban areas. No comprehensive system of driver licensing was present until 1936, when the Soviet government organized and standardized traffic and driving regulations, with the statewide system regulated by specialized police authorities.
General (보통) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 10 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 4 tonnes, a special motor vehicle which weighs less than 3.5 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers).
the period of validity of an international driving permit shall be either no more than three years after the date of issue or until the date of expiry of the domestic driving permit, whichever is earlier;
B1 Public (B1 UMUM) - to drive passenger vehicles and general freight allowed amount of weight over 3,500 kg (7,700 lb)
"New York's Auto Exports Increase-Big Jump in Cars Shipped Last Year-New Jersey Examines All Drivers" (PDF). The New York Times. 14 July 1913. p. 11. Retrieved 3 June 2009.
^ "Driving in Melbourne". Live in Melbourne. State Government of Victoria. 21 November 2017.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2 February 2021. Retrieved 26 January 2021.{{cite web}}:CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
Jones, Allison (14 May 2019). "Ontario plans to eliminate enhanced driver's licences used at border crossings". CTV News. Canadian Press. Retrieved 14 May 2019.
Driver's licences have in Europe a categorisation based on the following letters:
A foreigner 18 years of age or older and holding a Work Pass/Dependent Pass/Student Pass may drive in Singapore with a valid class 3, 3A or 2B foreign permit, for a period of not more than 12 months. A Singaporean driving licence is required after 12 months. Those on short term social visits may drive with their foreign permit for up to 12 months each time they enter into Singapore. For licences not written in the English language, an International Driving Permit or translation is required.
Various state statutes also mandate that a CDL must be held to operate vehicles not covered by federal statutes.
The minimum driving age varies between 16 and 18 years of age in different States and Territories. After the minimum age, a graduated licensing scheme operates, with state variations.
24 years old for issue of Driving License class: D, FC
International Driving Permit (5-years validity) can be obtained on the basis of 5-years Thai licence.
A Driver's License from any US state is valid for temporary use in any other US state, although most states require that a person have a license issued by their state of primary residence. Most states allow residents to convert an out-of-state license to an in-state license without any additional written or road tests.
Florida has a reciprocal license agreement with South Korea, allowing South Korea licenses to be exchanged for a Florida license, and vice versa, without taking a written or road test.[92]
"List of contracting party states in the current version of the German International Driving Permit according to the 1926 Convention on Motor Traffic"
^ "DriveTest - Exchanging a Reciprocal License". Drivetest.ca. Archived from the original on 30 January 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
^ "US Drivers License Application". US Immigration Support: Your Guide to US Visas, Green Cards, and Citizenship. Archived from the original on 5 July 2010. Retrieved 1 October 2010.
"愛知県警察／運転免許に関すること" [Aichi Prefectural Police/Driver's License Concerns] (in Japanese). 愛知県警察 (Aichi Prefectural Police). Retrieved 9 October 2014.
B1 – to drive private passenger under 9 seats, cargo vehicle or tractor with weight allowed not exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb). B1 license is not allowed to practice. B1 license is valid until male reach 60 years old and female reach 55 years old
^ "SOS - CDL Group Designations and Endorsements". www.michigan.gov. Retrieved 1 September 2017.
Convention on Road Traffic (PDF). United Nations Conference on Road Traffic. 8 November 1968.
The minimum driving age in South Africa is 17, when drivers may drive with an adult who holds a valid driving licence, after passing a learner's theory test. At 18, a driving licence can be obtained after passing the road test. Small motorcycles may be driven from the age of 16. To obtain a permit, applicants must pass a written or computer-based test to obtain a learner's licence, and then pass a road test to obtain the driving license. Categories for permits include CODE B (normal vehicles), CODE C1 (LDV), CODE EC (heavy trucks), CODE A (motorcycle).The learners licence theory test will contain three sets of questions with multiple answer options; test-takers will have to select the correct answer. Some Driving Licence Test Centres use computers for the test, whereas others require test-takers to complete the test using a test paper and pen.[citation needed]
A "Cook Islands Driving Licence" (Obverse - called a "License to Drive a Motor Vehicle" on its face)is issued at police headquarters in Avarua on the main island of Rarotonga, on production of a valid permit from the visitor's home country. To use a scooter or motor cycle (the main hire vehicles for tourists) a short test has to be taken by anyone whose home permit is only valid for cars, in which a police officer observes the applicant riding up and down the main street of the capital.
"Design of UK Driving Licences after 31 January 2020 - a Freedom of Information request to Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency" (PDF). 28 December 2019.
Issues when moving permanently from one country or one state to another
5International and interstate considerations											Toggle International and interstate considerations subsection																					5.1Issues when moving permanently from one country or one state to another																								5.1.1Australia																											5.1.2Canada																											5.1.3France																											5.1.4Germany																											5.1.5Hong Kong																											5.1.6Singapore																											5.1.7Sweden																											5.1.8United Kingdom																								5.1.8.1Great Britain																											5.1.8.2Northern Ireland																														5.1.9United States
"В Украине с 29 декабря появятся новые отметки в водительских удостоверениях"
Russia employs a system of driver's licences very similar to the EU standard. Since 2014 there are 14 main categories that require a driving licence: A, A1, B, B1, C, C1, D, D1, BE, CE, C1E, DE, D1E, M[39] and two additional categories: Tm (tram) and Tb (trolleybus).
Northern Ireland. Although part of the UK, driving licences are issued by the Driver and Vehicle Agency (DVA or DVANI) in Northern Ireland,
A Class A license is required to obtain the T endorsement.
The British Crown dependencies of Guernsey, Jersey and the Isle of Man,
Karl Benz, inventor of the modern car, received a written "Genehmigung" (permit) from the Grand Ducal authorities to operate his car on public roads in 1888 after residents complained about the noise and smell of his Motorwagen.[2] Up until the start of the 20th century, European authorities issued similar permits to drive motor vehicles ad hoc, if at all.[2]
^ "The Motor Car Act, 1903 - The Motor Miscellany". Retrieved 23 May 2017.
All driver's licenses are given by the government agency SERTRACEN (Servicios de Tránsito Centroamericanos S.A. de C.V.).
The minimum age for getting a driver's licence in Iceland is 17 for a B class license, a B class licence will qualify a person to drive low powered motorcycles (50 cc (3.1 cu in) two stroke or equivalent, for more powerful bikes one will have to obtain an A class license), Tractors, ATVs and automobiles that do not exceed a GVWR of 3,500 kg (7,700 lb) or 8 passengers.
^ "lplate - Zimbabwe Provisional Driving Lessons". Zimbabwe. Retrieved 24 March 2019.
Each state in Australia has different rules for how long a visitor can drive on an international license or a license from a different state. For example, New South Wales allows three months[78] whereas Victoria allows six months.[79] Drivers that move permanently to another state must change their license to a local state license within the prescribed time. This is usually free. In some states, drivers with a full New Zealand driver licence are treated as interstate drivers.
In Indonesia, to drive a motor vehicle, one must own a legal Indonesian Driving License (Indonesian: Surat Izin Mengemudi or SIM). It is a card which legally permits one to drive a motor vehicle. In Indonesia, there are classes for each driving license for which is allowed to drive a type of motor vehicle:
^ "Getting Your Driver's Licence". Youth Information Centers. Jamaica: National Centre for Youth Developmen. 2010. Retrieved 11 January 2020.
Western Australia and South Australia cards have driver's licence, while cards from New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania, Australian Capital Territory, Northern Territory and New Zealand have driver licence.
^ "Design of UK Driving Licences after 31 January 2020 - a Freedom of Information request to Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency" (PDF). 28 December 2019.
British Columbia has a reciprocal licence exchange scheme with other Canadian provinces and territories as well as other countries provided the licence is still valid or has been expired for less than three years.[80]
D – to drive private or commercial vehicle between 10 seats and 30 seats. D license is valid for 5 years.
"New Residents of Québec and Holders of a Driver's Licence Issued Outside Québec"
^ "Permis de conduire - Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires étrangères" (in French). Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires étrangères. Retrieved 1 February 2021.
Many countries have established a driver's license exchange arrangement after reviews of the foreign jurisdiction's licensing processes. Where standards in the other jurisdiction are comparable in areas such as medical standards, minimum driving age, and knowledge and road testing, an exchange of the foreign jurisdiction's license may occur.[76] This may also be called Driver's License Reciprocity.[77]
Delaware has a reciprocal license exchange for Germany, France, and Taiwan to allow holders of those licenses to obtain a Delaware license without any additional written or road tests.[90]
"New York State Department of Motor Vehicles - NYS DMV - NYSDMV - Driver - Vehicle"
at the age of 18 - categories B1, B, C1, C (ATVs, cars, trucks);
Ukrainian driving licences are official documents which authorize their respective holders to operate various types of motor vehicle on public roads.
"New York's Auto Exports Increase-Big Jump in Cars Shipped Last Year-New Jersey Examines All Drivers"
"6 CFR § 37.29 - Prohibition against holding more than one REAL ID card or more than one driver's license"
^ "В сервисных центрах МВД Украины начали выдавать международные водительские права". delo.ua (in Russian). Retrieved 10 February 2017.
"Agreement Promotes Safety And Convenience For New Residents". Archived from the original on 22 August 2010. Retrieved 4 February 2016.
"How do I get my class 2 truck licence?". 21 August 2017.
The minimum driving age in India is 16 to drive any kind of gearless motorcycle like scooters and mopeds without gear and 18 for cars and motorcycles with gear like bikes , scooters with gear (old type of scooters like bajaj chetak which are not currently available in market) .[30] The Regional Transport Office (RTO/RTA) issue their own driving licences in various states. Drivers are legally obliged to carry a valid driving permit (driving licence) in India while driving, and it must be produced if required to do so by a police officer.
Besides the type of the license, the license may have a special condition. Depending on the special condition given, the driver must satisfy the condition below to be able to drive. Driving a vehicle without satisfying the given condition is considered as unlicensed driving.
The International Driving Permit (IDP) (sometimes erroneously called the International Driver's License) is a booklet which is an authorized translation of a driver's home permit into up to ten languages (including languages with non-Latin scripts such as Arabic, Chinese, Greek, Japanese and Russian).[74] In many cases, it is obtained from a motoring organization such as the Automobile Association or the equivalent in the driver's home country. In other cases, it is delivered by the same government services that deliver ordinary permits. The IDP has no validity except when used in conjunction with the driver's own domestic permit. The existence of the IDP is necessitated by many countries refusing to recognize driving permits written in foreign languages without accompanying certified translations.
Drivers are legally obliged to carry a valid driving licence whilst driving and this must be produced if required to do so by a police officer.[29]
Great Britain (England, Scotland and Wales). Although part of the UK, driving licences are issued by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) in these 3 constituent countries,
Information from the European Union in driving licenses throughout the Community
Type 1 (1종) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 15 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 12 tonnes, when the driver is driving with somebody with a non-practice license.
There are several categories of drivers' licenses in El Salvador:[59]
"State of Delaware Division of Motor Vehicles - Driver's License Over 18 FAQ's". Dmv.de.gov. Archived from the original on 24 October 2004. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"Driving in Melbourne". Live in Melbourne. State Government of Victoria. 21 November 2017.
Small Trailer (소형견인차) – Allows one to drive a trailer under 3 tonnes with powered vehicle under 3.5 tonnes.
^ "Directgov *'exchange driving licence' interactive tool". Direct.gov.uk. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
In the United Kingdom, one must hold a Passenger Carrying Vehicle (PCV) Licence to drive a vehicle with more than eight passenger seats for hire or reward, or a Large Goods Vehicle (LGV) Licence to drive a vehicle with a Gross Vehicle Weight (Maximum Authorized Mass) in excess of 3,500 kg (7,700 lb). Licences and Driver Certificate of Professional Competence qualification cards must be carried whilst driving vehicles in such categories. Special licences are also required in order to transport hazardous materials.
In Sri Lanka, a driving licence is the official document which authorizes its holder to operate various types of motor vehicles on public roads. They are administered by the Department of Motor Traffic (DMT). The minimum age is 18 years for all vehicle types.
Most American jurisdictions issue a permit with "driver license" printed on it but some use "driver's license", which is conversational American English. Canadian English uses both "driver's licence" as well as "driver licence" (Atlantic Canada). The Australian and New Zealand English equivalent is "driver's licence" or "driver licence" depending on the state or territory of issue.[1] In British English and in many former British colonies it is "driving licence".
Moreover, because such license holders are proven to have been free of accidents and moving violations for at least five years, they are deemed low-risk and qualify for optional car insurance discounts. To qualify, drivers must be accident and violation-free for 5 years and 41 days prior to their birthday on their license's expiration. The period in which the license holder's driving history is reviewed begins on the 40th day prior to their birthday of that year. Should the license holder be deemed to qualify, they will receive a decision in the mail with the word 優良 printed on it.
A Learner's Permit can be obtained at age 17. After passing both a written and practical test a full "Driver's Licence" can be obtained which will expire on the holder's fifth birthday after the date of issue.[60]
"WA State Licensing: Moving? Get WA license". Dol.wa.gov. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"About driver licences: Stage 1 – learner licence". NZ Transport Agency. Retrieved 8 December 2016.
If approved, drivers from Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Delaware, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Washington state, Wisconsin, and Wyoming will be exempted from both the road and written driving tests.
^ "AAMVA - DL ID Card Design Standard". www.aamva.org. Retrieved 26 January 2021.
Convention with Respect to the International Circulation of Motor Vehicles
"Indian government to introduce universal smart card driving license across the country". Cartoq. 29 June 2019. Retrieved 27 January 2021.
3.4Rest of Europe																								3.4.1Albania																											3.4.2North Macedonia																											3.4.3Russia																											3.4.4Switzerland																											3.4.5Turkey																											3.4.6Ukraine																											3.4.7United Kingdom
Discounts (up to five-fold discounts) for sightseeing, museums, etc. can be obtained
The licence has been issued for not less than 5 years immediately before the application; or
A4 – to drive tractor with weight allowed not exceeding 1,000 kg (2,200 lb). A4 license is valid for 10 years
^ Convention on Road Traffic (PDF). United Nations Conference on Road Traffic. 8 November 1968.
^ "Visit Europe from 1 January 2021". GOV.UK. Retrieved 29 December 2020.
Canada (by default, Canadian driver's licences will only be exchanged for licences to drive automatic transmission cars, unless documentary evidence is provided that a manual gearbox (shift) test was passed in Canada).
National classes, not harmonised and only valid within the issuing country:
Contracting parties may refuse to recognize the validity of driving permits for persons under eighteen or, for categories C, D, CE and DE, under twenty-one;
^ "About driver licences: New Zealand's driver licensing system". NZ Transport Agency. Retrieved 8 December 2016.
^ "New York State Commercial Driver's Manual". Retrieved 25 October 2006.
^ "History of Driving and the introduction of the UK driving licence". UK: Antonine Driving School. 2009. Retrieved 11 January 2020.
In Denmark, Finland, Norway, Spain and Sweden, the driving permit number is listed along with the bearer's national identification number. Banks and public authorities use the same number for customer databases, making the permit fully useful for identification purposes.
In Barbados, a person 16 years or over can apply for a Learner's Permit which allows them to drive for a specified period with an accompanying tutor. During that period they will be tested on their driving skill and their knowledge of road signs and traffic laws. On passing both the written and driving test the full driving licence is issued. Once issued a driving licence is valid for a period of one to five years depending on which period of time the driver chooses to pay for. On the expiry of the period for which the licence is issued, it will become renewable on the last day of the driver's birth month and will again be valid for the time period for which payment is made. Visitors and non-nationals who are the holders of a valid driver's permit issued in their country of residence or origin are not allowed to drive automatically in Barbados but must go to a police station to have a temporary local driving licence issued. The licence is issued on payment of a fee and the production of the visitor's existing permit.
Liviana—Taxis, Light trucks up to 5 tons, and buses up to 30 passengers.
US state driver's licenses can be exchanged from the 18 states below during the first year of legal residence in France: Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin.[83]
"ГАИ РУ – Информационный портал: автомобильные новости, оплата штрафов ГИБДД – Форум автомобилистов – Справочная информация для автовладельцев" (in Russian). Archived from the original on 10 May 2000. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
In India, people aged 50 or more, have to undergo strict medical tests in order to obtain a permit that has limited validity and requires renewal every five years. A Commercial Driving Licence is valid for 3 years and then requires to be renewed.
"Permis de conduire - Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires étrangères"
In Vietnam, there are classes for each driving license for which is allowed to drive a type of motor vehicle:
Practice License (Equivalent to Learner's Permit)Type 1 (1종) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 15 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 12 tonnes, when the driver is driving with somebody with a non-practice license.Type 2 (2종) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 10 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 4 tonnes, when the driver is driving with somebody with a non-practice license.
3.2Asia																								3.2.1Azerbaijan																											3.2.2China																											3.2.3Hong Kong																											3.2.4India																											3.2.5Indonesia																											3.2.6Israel																											3.2.7Japan																								3.2.7.1Green																											3.2.7.2Blue																											3.2.7.3Gold																														3.2.8Lebanon																											3.2.9Malaysia																											3.2.10Nepal																											3.2.11Pakistan																											3.2.12Philippines																											3.2.13Singapore																											3.2.14South Korea																											3.2.15Sri Lanka																											3.2.16Taiwan																											3.2.17Thailand																											3.2.18Vietnam
Many European countries require drivers to produce their permit on demand when driving. Some European countries require adults to carry proof of identity at all times, but a driving permit is not valid for identification in every European country.[17]
In Canada and the United States, the abbreviation DLN is commonly used for a driver's license number. Five states in the northern United States (Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Vermont and Washington) and two provinces in Canada (British Columbia and Manitoba) also offer an "enhanced driver's license" (EDL), which is a driving permit that has an embedded RFID chip and is accepted at the federal level in lieu of a passport for land and sea (but not air) border crossings between the US and Canada. The EDL program was also previously offered in Ontario and Quebec, but is no longer offered there.[23]
"California Commercial Driver Handbook". Archived from the original on 11 October 2003. Retrieved 25 October 2006.
2Use for identification purposes											Toggle Use for identification purposes subsection																					2.1Asia																											2.2Europe																											2.3North America																											2.4South America
"Altes vom Auto: Meldungen aus 125 Jahren:Tops und Flops (a summary of the highlights and lowlights of the first 125 years of motoring history)". Auto Motor u. Sport. 4: 16. 27 January 2011.
The minimum age for obtaining a driving licence varies between 16 and 21, although there is a concern about teenage driving safety.[35]
"New-style driving licences and number plates mark one-year anniversary of Brexit as EU flag is removed". GOV.UK. Retrieved 9 March 2021.
3.3European Economic Area																								3.3.1Austria																											3.3.2Belgium																											3.3.3Bulgaria																											3.3.4Croatia																											3.3.5Cyprus																											3.3.6Denmark																											3.3.7Finland																											3.3.8France																											3.3.9Germany																											3.3.10Greece																											3.3.11Iceland																											3.3.12Ireland																											3.3.13Italy																											3.3.14Netherlands																											3.3.15Norway																											3.3.16Poland																											3.3.17Romania																											3.3.18Spain																											3.3.19Sweden
A driver's license is a legal authorization, or the official document confirming such an authorization, for a specific individual to operate one or more types of motorized vehicles—such as motorcycles, cars, trucks, or buses—on a public road. Such licenses are often plastic and the size of a credit card.
"District of Columbia: Department of Motor Vehicles - Services - Drivers' Licenses - Getting Your Learners' Permit". Dmv.dc.gov. Archived from the original on 26 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
^ "International Driving permit in UK". The American Journal of International Law. ITCA. 4 (4 Supplement:Official Documents): 316–328. October 1910. JSTOR 2212082.
^ "Agreement Promotes Safety And Convenience For New Residents". Archived from the original on 22 August 2010. Retrieved 4 February 2016.
The Driver & Vehicle Agency (DVA), which licenses drivers in Northern Ireland, exchanges full driving permits issued by:[89]
A Public (A UMUM) - to drive commercial vehicles and goods carrier to the amount of weight that is allowed does not exceed 3,500 kg (7,700 lb)
For South Korean driving licenses, there are classes which permit driving different types of motor vehicle:
Driving licences in Singapore are issued by the traffic police. The minimum age to obtain a provisional driving licence (PDL), which allows the holder to practice driving while under the supervision of an authorised driving instructor, is 18. A provisional driving licence is obtained once the individual has passed the basic theory test. PDL holders are then required to sit for and pass the final theory test before they are allowed to sit for the practical driving test. Once they have passed the practical driving test, they are issued with a driving licence which allows for driving without supervision, though new drivers are required to display probationary plates when driving for the first year after their licence is issued.
China, at present, does not recognize IDPs and requires drivers to get an additional Chinese licence before being officially allowed on all roads. Holders of foreign permits are exempt from certain requirements when obtaining a Chinese permit.
"Draft: Information Technology — Personal Identification — ISO Compliant Driving Licence — Part 1: Physical Characteristics and Basic Data Set" (PDF). 12 January 2018 – via tttfp.org.
It isn't difficult to get a driving licence in Thailand. In fact it is accessible to foreigners too. When the package of documents will be collected the person needs to appeal to the Transport Authority and sign up for the exam. Waiting time usually is near one month.
"History of Driving and the introduction of the UK driving licence". UK: Antonine Driving School. 2009. Retrieved 11 January 2020.
F – a group of licenses for any semi-trailer vehicles (FB2, FC) or articulated vehicles (FD, FE) listed in specific type of license above. All F licenses is valid for 5 years.
Driving in Thailand without a driving licence is prohibited and is punishable by fines. Moreover, in case of a road accident, a driver without a permt can be considered as the guilty party. Also, an unlicensed driver who was in a road accident will be refused medical insurance payments
"Driving with an overseas or interstate licence in NSW". NSW Government. 13 August 2021. Retrieved 3 January 2023.
Contracting parties shall recognize as valid for driving in their territories:
^ "Convention on Road Traffic". Chapter XI: B, Convention No. 1. The United Nations Secretariat. 19 September 1949.
The minimum age for a driving license is 18 years old. It is obtained via a test in a car, a computer and the applicant must present a vision test which says they are permitted to drive
In Nigeria, the minimum age to qualify for a drivers licence is 18. The applicant would first attend training at an accredited driving school. Then, the driving school will present the applicant to a Vehicle Inspection Officer (VIO) for a driving test. Upon passing the driving test the applicant would obtain a certificate of proficiency from the VIO. The applicant then completes a drivers license application form at the Drivers Licence Centre (DLC) or downloads the form online. Afterwards he pays a licence fee online or at the Bank and presents his application form to the Board of Internal Revenue (BIR) Officer and VIO at the DLC for endorsement. After all these procedures he goes to the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Officer at the DLC for biometric data capture. He is given a temporary drivers licence which is valid for 60 days. He picks up the original drivers licence at the BIR Office after 60 days.
^ "ICBC - Driver licensing". Archived from the original on 28 September 2011.
^ Carlos Josue Quinteros Berrios. "Primera Vez" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
Vietnam has a minimum age of 16 for mopeds under 50 cc (3.1 cu in) and 18 for motorcycles producing more than 50 cc (3.1 cu in). Minimum age for holding a driving permit is 18 for cars and small truck, 21 for commercial vehicles.[citation needed]
Minimum age for holding a driving permit is 18 for private cars, light goods vehicle, motorcycles and motortricycles. For commercial vehicles the age is 21.[28]
A driver is allowed a learner's permit at the age of 15 (in some states), with a fee of approximately 100 US dollars, a year's validity, and a requirement to drive with an adult at all times. At the age of 16, the fee drops to about 30 US dollars, and a driving permit is issued with some usage restrictions, depending on the state, such as a curfew. Drivers are allowed a full permit when a driver turns 18.
^ "Requirements for Obtaining a Driving Licence". Transport Department, Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Retrieved 8 November 2022.
"Indian government to introduce universal smart card driving license across the country"
A3 – to drive motorized tricycle, sidecar attached motorcycle and A1 motorcycles. A3 license has no expiry date
^ Western Australia and South Australia cards have driver's licence, while cards from New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania, Australian Capital Territory, Northern Territory and New Zealand have driver licence.
3Permits for different categories of vehicles											Toggle Permits for different categories of vehicles subsection																					3.1Africa																								3.1.1Egypt																											3.1.2Ghana																											3.1.3Kenya																											3.1.4Morocco																											3.1.5Nigeria																											3.1.6South Africa																											3.1.7Tanzania																											3.1.8Zimbabwe																														3.2Asia																								3.2.1Azerbaijan																											3.2.2China																											3.2.3Hong Kong																											3.2.4India																											3.2.5Indonesia																											3.2.6Israel																											3.2.7Japan																								3.2.7.1Green																											3.2.7.2Blue																											3.2.7.3Gold																														3.2.8Lebanon																											3.2.9Malaysia																											3.2.10Nepal																											3.2.11Pakistan																											3.2.12Philippines																											3.2.13Singapore																											3.2.14South Korea																											3.2.15Sri Lanka																											3.2.16Taiwan																											3.2.17Thailand																											3.2.18Vietnam																														3.3European Economic Area																								3.3.1Austria																											3.3.2Belgium																											3.3.3Bulgaria																											3.3.4Croatia																											3.3.5Cyprus																											3.3.6Denmark																											3.3.7Finland																											3.3.8France																											3.3.9Germany																											3.3.10Greece																											3.3.11Iceland																											3.3.12Ireland																											3.3.13Italy																											3.3.14Netherlands																											3.3.15Norway																											3.3.16Poland																											3.3.17Romania																											3.3.18Spain																											3.3.19Sweden																														3.4Rest of Europe																								3.4.1Albania																											3.4.2North Macedonia																											3.4.3Russia																											3.4.4Switzerland																											3.4.5Turkey																											3.4.6Ukraine																											3.4.7United Kingdom																														3.5North America																								3.5.1Barbados																											3.5.2Canada																											3.5.3Costa Rica																											3.5.4El Salvador																											3.5.5Jamaica																											3.5.6Mexico																											3.5.7Trinidad and Tobago																											3.5.8United States																														3.6Oceania																								3.6.1Australia																											3.6.2Cook Islands																											3.6.3New Zealand																														3.7South America																								3.7.1Brazil																											3.7.2Peru																											3.7.3Venezuela
"ГАИ РУ – Информационный портал: автомобильные новости, оплата штрафов ГИБДД – Форум автомобилистов – Справочная информация для автовладельцев"
Washington state has a reciprocal license exchange, allowing holders of valid licenses from any other US state, British Columbia, Germany, South Korea, and Taiwan to exchange their license for a Washington State license without taking any written or road tests.[95]
Virginia has a reciprocal agreement with Canada, France, and Germany. The knowledge and skills tests may be waived if the driver meets residency and other requirements.[96]
^ "Exchanging your foreign driving licence". nidirect government services. 25 November 2015. Retrieved 21 February 2020.
^ Jones, Allison (14 May 2019). "Ontario plans to eliminate enhanced driver's licences used at border crossings". CTV News. Canadian Press. Retrieved 14 May 2019.
I – Drive a car with a gas pedal located in the left.
^ "Applying driving licence for the first time". tra.go.tz. Tanzania Revenue Authority. Retrieved 24 March 2019. The objective of this system is to monitor and control the issuance of driving licenses with a view to addressing the problem of fake licences which are the cause for many road accidents. This is because the system allows everybody to obtain any license and drive any car one prefers. However under the current system holders of driving license of certain class will be obliged to drive only such a class upon which he was tested for and not otherwise. At the initial stage the applicant will have to undergo biometric measures and finger prints.
Australia, Barbados, Faroe Islands, Hong Kong, Japan, Monaco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, South Africa, and Zimbabwe (only car and motorcycle licences),
The European Union has adopted a common format for driving permits within all 30 European Economic Area member states (EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway), and a common set of driving permit categories. There are other national categories for tractors, large motorcycles, motorised wheel boats, motor tricycles (modern voiturettes, Category B1 or S), and military categories such as for driving tanks. National categories mean they are not harmonised and only valid within the issuing country.
"Driving license:Getting a driving license in Turkey". justlanded.com. Just Landed. Retrieved 4 July 2017.
^ "Transport - Driving license". Ec.europa.eu. 22 October 2003. Archived from the original on 11 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
In Taiwan, driving permits (駕駛執照) are issued by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to a qualified driver. The number of the driver license in Taiwan is the same as the ID number of the license holder's household registration in Taiwan. In Taiwan, the driver license is sometimes accepted as a valid identity document, since the information on a driver license replicates most of that on a Taiwanese National Identification Card.
"Brexit: What are the rules on driving in the EU after transition?". BBC News. 27 December 2020. Retrieved 29 December 2020.
"Florida officials sign a new agreement wit South Korea" (PDF). www.flhsmv.gov (Press release). 21 October 2011. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 January 2012. Retrieved 20 January 2012.
X Combination of Tank Vehicle and Hazardous Materials (written test)
Asa Bennett (27 January 2020). "How will the Brexit transition period work?". Telegraph.
Turkey has been an associate member since 1963, and its application to accede to the European Economic Community, the predecessor of the European Union (EU), was made on 14 April 1987.[43] Turkey signed a Customs Union agreement with the EU in 1995 and was officially recognized as a candidate for full membership on 12 December 1999, at the Helsinki summit of the European Council.
"History of Driving and the introduction of the UK driving licence"
Hold a passport or an equivalent travel document of the country or territory in which the license was issued.
^ "Application For Direct Issue Of Full Hong Kong Driving Licence" (PDF). Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"Driving in Moscow – Russian road rules". We heart Moscow. Retrieved 13 October 2015.
^ "Travel documents for EU nationals". Your Europe. 7 July 2017. Retrieved 27 August 2017.
"Vehicle Inspectorate Department (VID)". Zimbabwe. 2015. Retrieved 24 March 2019.
Canada (only car and motorcycle licences; by default, Canadian driver's licences will only be exchanged for licences to drive automatic transmission cars, unless documentary evidence is provided that a manual gearbox (shift) test was passed in Canada).
After the theory test learner drivers have to start practical driving lessons covering key driving skills. To qualify for a driving test one must have completed thirty lessons.
"Visit Europe from 1 January 2021". GOV.UK. Retrieved 29 December 2020.
^ "Vehicles and Transport System Regulations" (PDF). Department of Transport Management (DoTM) (in Nepali). Government of Nepal. Retrieved 30 January 2022.
A Hong Kong Driving Licence carries the same number as the holder's ID card, but has no photograph. As such, it is not a legal document for proof of age for purchase of alcohol. Upon control, both must be presented. Plans to make the newly phased in Smart ID contain driver licensing information have been shelved.
"В сервисных центрах МВД Украины начали выдавать международные водительские права"
^ "Appendix C to Part 658". Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. Archived from the original on 13 February 2008. Retrieved 4 February 2008.
^ "About drivers licences: Stage 2 – restricted licence". NZ Transport Agency.
^ "Department of Motor Vehicles Virginia" (PDF). dmv.virginia.gov. Retrieved 27 September 2015.
^ "愛知県警察／運転免許に関すること" [Aichi Prefectural Police/Driver's License Concerns] (in Japanese). 愛知県警察 (Aichi Prefectural Police). Retrieved 9 October 2014.
"International Driving Permit". Australian Automobile Association. Retrieved 28 April 2019.
The legal driving age within the Russian Federation is 18 years (16 for motorcycles (A1 and M categories only, not A) and 20 for buses)[41] and to obtain a license one must be physically fit to drive (including certificates of mental fitness and no record of substance abuse). One must also pass a test administered at a local traffic police authority and pay a fee. Tests are divided into theory and practice. The theory test is usually a computerized multiple-choice test on various traffic rules. Twenty multiple-choice questions are asked, only two incorrect answers allowed for a passing grade, five additional questions per mistake. A road test is then administered which includes a demonstration of basic driving skills (steering, slope starting for manual transmission vehicles and backing-up), obstacle course as well as a skills examination for road driving. Four minor errors are allowed for the road driving examination—the obstacle course is pass-fail. The number of retries is unlimited.
^ "EU-Turkey relations". European Information on Enlargement & Neighbours. EurActiv.com. 23 September 2004. Archived from the original on 6 December 2006. Retrieved 26 August 2008.
^ "WA State Licensing: Moving? Get WA license". Dol.wa.gov. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"Drivers can renew licence on birthday from Nov 21". The Malaysian Insider. 15 November 2011. Archived from the original on 1 February 2014. Retrieved 22 January 2014.
There are three different types of "Driver Licence" in New Zealand: learners (blue), restricted (orange) and full (green). Learner licences allow the person to drive, with a wide number of restrictions.[66] Restricted licences allow driving alone between the hours of 5am to 10pm, and require the person to be at least 16 years 6 months old. Restricted licence drivers who passed their practical test in a vehicle with an automatic transmission are not allowed to drive vehicles with manual transmission until they have their full licence.[67] Full licences are restricted to those 18 and over, or 17 years 6 months old if an approved advanced driving course has been successfully completed.[68]
The driving entitlement(s) for which one is applying must be equivalent to the class(es) which are authorized by the issuing country or place; and
"AAMVA - DL ID Card Design Standard". www.aamva.org. Retrieved 26 January 2021.
"В сервисных центрах МВД Украины начали выдавать международные водительские права". delo.ua (in Russian). Retrieved 10 February 2017.
As traffic-related fatalities soared in North America, public outcry provoked legislators to begin studying the French and German statutes as models.[7] On 1 August 1910, North America's first licensing law for motor vehicles went into effect in the U.S. state of New York, though it initially applied only to professional chauffeurs.[8] In July 1913, the state of New Jersey became the first to require all drivers to pass a mandatory examination before being licensed.[9]
C – to drive private or commercial vehicle under 9 seats, cargo vehicle or tractor with weight allowed exceeding 3,500 kg (7,700 lb). C license is valid for 5 years.
The minimum age for obtaining a driver's license in Romania is 18 ("Minimum legal age in Romania")
"Vehicles and Transport System Regulations" (PDF). Department of Transport Management (DoTM) (in Nepali). Government of Nepal. Retrieved 30 January 2022.
"Costos de Licencia de Conducir" (in Spanish). Csv.go.cr. Archived from the original on 15 February 2012. Retrieved 4 February 2012.
"6 CFR § 37.29 - Prohibition against holding more than one REAL ID card or more than one driver's license". LII / Legal Information Institute. Retrieved 8 August 2020.
There are also different and separate endorsements that can allow full licence holders of different classes to carry passengers for commercial use (e.g. buses, taxis, Uber), drive specialist equipment (e.g. forklifts, excavators), tow vehicles, carry dangerous goods, instruct other drivers or conduct driving tests.[71]
Large (대형) – A permit which allows one to drive every vehicle except trailers and wreckers. It allows one to drive cargo truck, passenger bus, construction equipment for commercial purposes. Type 1 Large permit holders can apply for a tram driving license.
^ "A Brief History of Driver Education in the UK". derf.org.uk.
"Ontario plans to eliminate enhanced driver's licences used at border crossings"
^ "Draft: Information Technology — Personal Identification — ISO Compliant Driving Licence — Part 1: Physical Characteristics and Basic Data Set" (PDF). 12 January 2018 – via tttfp.org.
at the age of 19 - categories BE, C1E, CE (trucks with trailers, road trains);
^ "福岡県警察 渡辺通優良運転者免許更新センター（渡辺通ゴールド免許センター" [Fukuoka Prefectural Police Watanabe Avenue Excellent Driver License Renewal Center (Watanabe Avenue Gold License Center)] (in Japanese). 福岡県警察 (Fukuoka Prefectural Police). Retrieved 8 October 2014.
The notion of an "International Driving Permit" was first mooted in an international convention held in Paris in 1926, .[11]
The Gold License is granted to any driver who, at the point of license renewal, has at least five years of clean driving history (no driving infractions).[32][33] According to implications in the Road Traffic Laws Reforms that took place on May 10, 1995, all such licenses are marked with a gold band over the license's expiration date as well as the word 優良 (excellent) printed in black, below.
Type 1 (1종) – Commercial VehiclesLarge (대형) – A permit which allows one to drive every vehicle except trailers and wreckers. It allows one to drive cargo truck, passenger bus, construction equipment for commercial purposes. Type 1 Large permit holders can apply for a tram driving license.General (보통) – Allows one to drive a vehicle with less than 15 seats, an emergency motor vehicle with less than 12 seats, a cargo truck with a load limit of 12 tonnes, a construction equipment which weighs less than 3 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers), a special motor vehicle which weighs less than 10 tonnes (doesn't include trailers and wreckers).Small (소형) – Allows one to drive a tricycle and a motorcycle. Not issued since 1984.Large Trailer (대형견인차) – Allows one to drive all types of trailer.Small Trailer (소형견인차) – Allows one to drive a trailer under 3 tonnes with powered vehicle under 3.5 tonnes.Wrecker (구난) – Allows one to drive a tow truck.
Quebec has a reciprocal licence exchange scheme for Canadian provinces and territories, Canadian Forces Europe, American states and other countries.[82]
In order for autonomous vehicles to perceive their surroundings, they have to use different techniques each with their own accompanying digital information (e.g. radar, GPS, motion sensors and computer vision). Homogenization requires that the digital information from these different sources is transmitted and stored in the same form. This means their differences are decoupled, and digital information can be transmitted, stored, and computed in a way that the vehicles and their operating system can better understand and act upon it.
"Waymo launches nation's first commercial self-driving taxi service in Arizona". The Washington Post. Retrieved 6 December 2018.
^ "Uber self-driving cars allowed back on California roads". BBC News. 5 February 2020. Retrieved 24 October 2022.
^ "Autonomous micro-mobility simulation study". MIT Media Lab. Retrieved 3 December 2022.
According to Tesla, "neither Autopilot nor the driver noticed the white side of the tractor-trailer against a brightly lit sky, so the brake was not applied." The car attempted to drive full speed under the trailer, "with the bottom of the trailer impacting the windshield of the Model S". Tesla also claimed that this was Tesla's first known autopilot death in over 130 million miles (210 million kilometers) driven by its customers with Autopilot engaged, however by this statement, Tesla was apparently refusing to acknowledge claims that the January 2016 fatality in Hubei China had also been the result of an autopilot system error. According to Tesla there is a fatality every 94 million miles (151 million kilometers) among all type of vehicles in the US.[222][223][226] However, this number also includes fatalities of the crashes, for instance, of motorcycle drivers with pedestrians.[227][228]
^ Allyson Chiu (11 July 2018). "Ex-Apple engineer arrested on his way to China, charged with stealing company's autonomous car secrets". The Washington Post. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ "Waymo launches nation's first commercial self-driving taxi service in Arizona". The Washington Post. Retrieved 6 December 2018.
Companies such as Otto and Starsky Robotics have focused on autonomous trucks. Automation of trucks is important, not only due to the improved safety aspects of these very heavy vehicles, but also due to the ability of fuel savings through platooning. Autonomous vans are being developed for use by online grocers such as Ocado.[179]
^ Laursen, Lucas (28 August 2017). "The Tech That Won the First Formula Student Driverless Race". IEEE Spectrum.
^ Gold, Christian; Körber, Moritz; Hohenberger, Christoph; Lechner, David; Bengler, Klaus (1 January 2015). "Trust in Automation – Before and After the Experience of Take-over Scenarios in a Highly Automated Vehicle". Procedia Manufacturing. 3: 3025–3032. doi:10.1016/j.promfg.2015.07.847. ISSN 2351-9789.
Xie, S.; Hu, J.;Bhowmick, P.; Ding, Z.; Arvin, F., "Distributed Motion Planning for Safe Autonomous Vehicle Overtaking via Artificial Potential Field" IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2022.
"Google's Self-Driving Car Caused Its First Crash". Wired. February 2016.
ComplianceIn April 2021, WP.29 GRVA issued the master document on "Test Method for Automated Driving (NATM)".[199]
^ "自動運転車両「クルーズ・オリジン」の試作車が完成、米国でテストを開始" [Prototype of self-driving car "Cruise Origin" completed, started testing in the United States]. Honda (in Japanese). 29 September 2022. Retrieved 25 November 2022.
^ Anthony James (5 January 2022). "New Benteler brand Holon presents world's first autonomous mover built to automotive standards". ADAS & Autonomous Vehicle International. Retrieved 21 January 2023.
"Autonomous Vehicle Predictions: Auto Experts Offer Insights on the Future of Self-Driving Cars"
In 2019, results from two opinion surveys of 54 and 187 US adults respectively were published. A new standardized questionnaire, the autonomous vehicle acceptance model (AVAM) was developed, including additional description to help respondents better understand the implications of different automation levels. Results showed that users were less accepting of high autonomy levels and displayed significantly lower intention to use highly autonomous vehicles. Additionally, partial autonomy (regardless of level) was perceived as requiring uniformly higher driver engagement (usage of hands, feet and eyes) than full autonomy.[268]
"Consumers in US and UK Frustrated with Intelligent Devices That Frequently Crash or Freeze, New Accenture Survey Finds"
^ "Mcity testing center". University of Michigan. 8 December 2016. Archived from the original on 16 February 2017. Retrieved 13 February 2017.
^ "Gauging investment in self-driving cars". 16 October 2017. Retrieved 21 June 2021.
"Will Regulators Allow Self-Driving Cars in a Few Years?". Forbes. 24 September 2013. Retrieved 5 January 2014.
^ Mike Beevor (11 April 2019). "Driving autonomous vehicles forward with intelligent infrastructure". Smart Cities World. Retrieved 27 April 2022.
This page was last edited on 8 March 2023, at 02:25 (UTC).
^ Kassai, Evelyne (17 June 2020). "Scope of Using Autonomous Trucks and Lorries for Parcel Deliveries in Urban Settings". Logistics. mdpi. 4 (3): 17. doi:10.3390/logistics4030017.
^ "Waymo's Collision Avoidance Testing: Evaluating our Driver's Ability to Avoid Crashes Compared to Humans". Waymo. 14 December 2022. Retrieved 15 December 2022.
"Honda to Start Testing Program in September Toward Launch of Autonomous Vehicle Mobility Service Business in Japan"
"Uber' self-driving system was still 400 times worse [than] Waymo in 2018 on key distance intervention metric"
^ "Audi of America / news / Pool / Reaffirmed Mission for Autonomous Audi TTS Pikes Peak". AudiUSA.com. Archived from the original on 10 July 2012. Retrieved 28 April 2012.
Hancock, P. A.; Nourbakhsh, Illah; Stewart, Jack (16 April 2019). "On the future of transportation in an era of automated and autonomous vehicles". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 116 (16): 7684–7691. Bibcode:2019PNAS..116.7684H. doi:10.1073/pnas.1805770115. ISSN 0027-8424. PMC 6475395. PMID 30642956.
"Autonomous Vehicles Join the List of US National Security Threats"
"Toyota self-driving buses in Paralympic village to restart on Aug. 31"
^ Abuelsamid, Sam. "Adding Some Statistical Perspective To Tesla Autopilot Safety Claims". Forbes.
In SAE's automation level definitions, "driving mode" means "a type of driving scenario with characteristic dynamic driving task requirements (e.g., expressway merging, high speed cruising, low speed traffic jam, closed-campus operations, etc.)"[1][82]
"Legal issues in automated vehicles: critically considering the potential role of consent and interactive digital interfaces"
"Honda to Begin Sales of Legend with New Honda SENSING Elite". Honda. 4 March 2021. Retrieved 6 March 2021.
One approach is to implement communication networks both in the immediate vicinity (for collision avoidance) and farther away (for congestion management). Such outside influences in the decision process reduce an individual vehicle's autonomy, while still not requiring human intervention.
^ Boudette, Neal E. (23 March 2021). "Tesla's Autopilot Technology Faces Fresh Scrutiny". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 28 December 2021. Retrieved 15 June 2021.
The US allocated US$650 million in 1991 for research on the National Automated Highway System, which demonstrated automated driving through a combination of automation embedded in the highway with automated technology in vehicles, and cooperative networking between the vehicles and with the highway infrastructure. The programme concluded with a successful demonstration in 1997 but without clear direction or funding to implement the system on a larger scale.[42] Partly funded by the National Automated Highway System and DARPA, the Carnegie Mellon University Navlab drove 4,584 kilometres (2,848 mi) across America in 1995, 4,501 kilometres (2,797 mi) or 98% of it autonomously.[43] Navlab's record achievement stood unmatched for two decades until 2015, when Delphi improved it by piloting an Audi, augmented with Delphi technology, over 5,472 kilometres (3,400 mi) through 15 states while remaining in self-driving mode 99% of the time.[44] In 2015, the US states of Nevada, Florida, California, Virginia, and Michigan, together with Washington, DC, allowed the testing of automated cars on public roads.[45]
^ "Final Report Summary - CITYMOBIL2 (Cities demonstrating cybernetic mobility)". 11 November 2016. Retrieved 17 August 2021.
"NTSB to scrutinize driver automation with probe of Tesla crash"
Horwitz, Josh; Timmons, Heather (20 September 2016). "There are some scary similarities between Tesla's deadly crashes linked to Autopilot". Quartz. Retrieved 19 March 2018.
On 5 March 2021, Honda began leasing in Japan a limited edition of 100 Legend Hybrid EX sedans equipped with the newly approved Level 3 automated driving equipment which had been granted the safety certification by Japanese government to their autonomous "Traffic Jam Pilot" driving technology, and legally allow drivers to take their eyes off the road.[14][15][58][16]
"SAE Self-Driving Levels 0 to 5 for Automation – What They Mean". 23 January 2020.
Regulation of self-driving cars is an increasingly important issue which includes multiple subtopics. Among them are self-driving car liability, regulations regarding approval and international conventions.
Leggett, Theo (22 May 2018). "Who is to blame for "self-driving car" deaths?". BBC News.
"Limited talent pool is standing in the way of driverless cars"
"Reliance on autopilot is now the biggest threat to flight safety, study says"
"Four Chinese Nationals Working with the Ministry of State Security Charged with Global Computer Intrusion Campaign Targeting Intellectual Property and Confidential Business Information, Including Infectious Disease Research". DOJ, US. 19 July 2021. Retrieved 14 June 2022.
^ Pattinson, Jo-Ann; Chen, Haibo; Basu, Subhajit (2018). "Legal issues in automated vehicles: critically considering the potential role of consent and interactive digital interfaces". Humanities and Social Sciences Communications. 7.
Jon Brodkin (22 February 2021). "GM seeks US approval to deploy self-driving car without a steering wheel". Ars Technica. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
^ Katie Benner (19 July 2021). "The Justice Dept. accuses Chinese security officials of a hacking attack seeking data on viruses like Ebola". The New York Times. Retrieved 14 June 2022.
"NHTSA chief takes conservative view on autonomous vehicles: "If you had perfect, connected autonomous vehicles on the road tomorrow, it would still take 20 to 30 years to turn over the fleet.""
"Tesla Admits Current "Full Self-Driving Beta" Will Always Be a Level 2 System: Emails"
Garvin, Glenn (21 March 2014). "Automakers say self-driving cars are on the horizon". Miami Herald. Retrieved 22 March 2014.
^ a b Meyer, G.; Beiker, S (2014). Road vehicle automation. Springer International Publishing. pp. 93–102.
Lafrance, Adrienne (21 March 2016). "How Self-Driving Cars Will Threaten Privacy". Retrieved 4 November 2016.
Henn, Steve (31 July 2015). "Remembering When Driverless Elevators Drew Skepticism". NPR.org. NPR. Retrieved 14 August 2016.
"Honda Unveils CI-powered Micro-mobility Technologies that Utilize Honda CI (Cooperative Intelligence), Honda's Original AI that Enables Mutual Understanding between Machines and People"
"GM seeks US approval to deploy self-driving car without a steering wheel"
"Final Report Summary - CITYMOBIL2 (Cities demonstrating cybernetic mobility)". 11 November 2016. Retrieved 17 August 2021.
Other obstacles could include de-skilling and lower levels of driver experience for dealing with potentially dangerous situations and anomalies,[121] ethical problems where an automated vehicle's software is forced during an unavoidable crash to choose between multiple harmful courses of action (the trolley problem),[122][123] concerns about making large numbers of people currently employed as drivers unemployed, the potential for more intrusive mass surveillance of location, association and travel as a result of police and intelligence agency access to large data sets generated by sensors and pattern-recognition AI, and possibly insufficient understanding of verbal sounds, gestures and non-verbal cues by police, other drivers or pedestrians.[124]
^ a b Gomes, Lee (28 August 2014). "Hidden Obstacles for Google's Self-Driving Cars". MIT Technology Review. Archived from the original on 16 March 2015. Retrieved 22 January 2015.
"A critique of the SAE conditional driving automation definition, and analyses of options for improvement"
^ a b "Honda to start selling world's 1st level-3 autonomous car for $103K on Fri". Kyodo News. 4 March 2021. Archived from the original on 5 March 2021. Retrieved 6 March 2021.
"Tesla driver dies in first fatal crash while using autopilot mode"
Ackerman, Evan (4 March 2021). "What Full Autonomy Means for the Waymo Driver". IEEE Spectrum: Technology, Engineering, and Science News. Retrieved 8 March 2021.
"Human Factors behind Autonomous Vehicles". Robson Forensic. 25 April 2018. Retrieved 17 April 2022.
Badger, Emily (15 January 2015). "5 confounding questions that hold the key to the future of driverless cars". The Washington Post. Retrieved 22 January 2015.
^ "Toyota self-driving buses in Paralympic village to restart on Aug. 31". Kyodo News. 30 August 2021. Retrieved 17 November 2021.
Susceptibility of the car's sensing and navigation systems to different types of weather (such as snow) or deliberate interference, including jamming and spoofing.[124]
"Tesla Tells California DMV that FSD Is Not Capable of Autonomous Driving"
"How Self-Driving Cars Work". 14 December 2017. Retrieved 18 April 2018.
Anderson, James M.;et al. (2016). "Autonomous Vehicle Technology: A Guide for Policymakers" (PDF). RAND Corporation.
In September 2021, Honda started testing programme toward launch of Level 4 mobility service business in Japan under collaboration with Cruise and General Motors, using Cruise AV.[289]In October 2021 at World Congress on Intelligent Transport Systems, Honda presented that they are already testing Level 4 technology on modified Legend Hybrid EX.[290] At the end of the month, Honda explained that they are conducting verification project on Level 4 technology on a test course in Tochigi prefecture. Honda plans to test on public roads in early 2022.[291]
"Honda to develop advanced level 3 self-driving technology by 2029"
^ "New driver-assistance technology dramatically improves collision-avoidance performance". Nissan. Retrieved 15 December 2022.
^ Lafrance, Adrienne (21 March 2016). "How Self-Driving Cars Will Threaten Privacy". Retrieved 4 November 2016.
Please help by editing the article to make improvements to the overall structure.
A 2013 survey of 1,500 consumers across 10 countries by Cisco Systems found 57% "stated they would be likely to ride in a car controlled entirely by technology that does not require a human driver", with Brazil, India and China the most willing to trust automated technology.[261]
"Adopted Regulations for Testing of Autonomous Vehicles by Manufacturers". DMV. 18 June 2016. Retrieved 13 February 2017.
"Trust in Automation – Before and After the Experience of Take-over Scenarios in a Highly Automated Vehicle"
^ "Google's Self-Driving Car Caused Its First Crash". Wired. February 2016.
In 2022, a research group of National Institute of Informatics (NII, Japan) expanded RSS and developed "Goal-Aware RSS" to make RSS rules possible to deal with complex scenarios via program logic.[113]
Katie Benner (19 July 2021). "The Justice Dept. accuses Chinese security officials of a hacking attack seeking data on viruses like Ebola". The New York Times. Retrieved 14 June 2022.
Level 2 ("hands off"): The automated system takes full control of the vehicle: accelerating, braking, and steering. The driver must monitor the driving and be prepared to intervene immediately at any time if the automated system fails to respond properly. The shorthand "hands off" is not meant to be taken literally – contact between hand and wheel is often mandatory during SAE 2 driving, to confirm that the driver is ready to intervene. The eyes of the driver may be monitored by cameras to confirm that the driver is keeping their attention to traffic. Actual hands off driving is sometimes considered level 2.5, although there are no official half-levels. A common example is adaptive cruise control, which also utilizes lane keeping assist technology so that the driver simply monitors the vehicle, such as "Super-Cruise" in the Cadillac CT6 by General Motors or Ford's F-150 BlueCruise.[84]
Hasuo, Ichiro; Eberhart, Clovis; Haydon, James; Dubut, Jérémy; Bohrer, Brandon; Kobayashi, Tsutomu; Pruekprasert, Sasinee; Zhang, Xiao-Yi; Andre Pallas, Erik; Yamada, Akihisa; Suenaga, Kohei; Ishikawa, Fuyuki; Kamijo, Kenji; Shinya, Yoshiyuki; Suetomi, Takamasa (5 July 2022). "Goal-Aware RSS for Complex Scenarios Via Program Logic". IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles: 1–33. arXiv:2207.02387. doi:10.1109/TIV.2022.3169762. S2CID 250311612.
^ a b Brad Templeton (9 February 2021). "California Robocar Disengagement Reports Reveal Tidbits About Tesla, AutoX, Apple, Others". Forbes. Retrieved 24 April 2022.
^ Justin Ling (1 July 2022). "Is Your New Car a Threat to National Security?". Wired. Retrieved 3 July 2022.
^ a b Yadron, Danny; Tynan, Dan (1 July 2016). "Tesla driver dies in first fatal crash while using autopilot mode". The Guardian. San Francisco. Retrieved 1 July 2016.
^ Council, National Research (2002). Technology Development for Army Unmanned Ground Vehicles. doi:10.17226/10592. ISBN 9780309086202.
"Self-driving cars for country roads: Today's automated vehicles require hand-labeled 3-D maps, but CSAIL's MapLite system enables navigation with just GPS and sensors"
"メルセデス・ベンツ日本に措置命令 事実と異なる記載 消費者庁" [Administrative order to Mercedes-Benz Japan Co., Ltd. for the descriptions that are different from the fact – The Consumer Affairs Agency]. NHK, Japan (in Japanese). 10 December 2021. Retrieved 13 April 2022.
European Commission (2019). STRIA Roadmap Connected and Automated Transport: Road, Rail and Waterborne (PDF).
"Statement Regarding a Collision between a Pedestrian and a Toyota e-Palette Vehicle at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Athletes' Village". ToyotaTimes. 27 August 2021. Retrieved 17 November 2021.
"VisLab Intercontinental Autonomous Challenge: Inaugural Ceremony – Milan, Italy". Archived from the original on 24 February 2021. Retrieved 27 October 2013.
Once the technology matures, autonomous vehicles are predicted to impact the automobile industry, health, welfare, urban planning, traffic, insurance, labor market and other fields.
"Apply for an Autonomous Vehicle Technology Demonstration / Testing Permit"
Henn, Steve (31 July 2015). "Remembering When Driverless Elevators Drew Skepticism".
STRIA Roadmap Connected and Automated Transport: Road, Rail and Waterborne
^ Paul Myles (17 September 2021). "Stellantis Shows Off its Level 3 Technology". Informa. Retrieved 29 November 2021.
"Honda Unveils Next-generation Technologies of Honda SENSING 360 and Honda SENSING Elite"
"automated vehicle" means a motor vehicle designed and constructed to move autonomously for certain periods of time without continuous driver supervision but in respect of which driver intervention is still expected or required;[67]
^ "Honda to Start Testing Program in September Toward Launch of Autonomous Vehicle Mobility Service Business in Japan" (Press release). Honda. 8 September 2021. Retrieved 16 March 2022.
^ SMMT publishes guiding principles for marketing automated vehicles, SMMT, 22 novembre 2021
In September 2021, Stellantis has presented its findings from a pilot programme testing Level 3 autonomous vehicles on public Italian highways.Stellantis's Highway Chauffeur claims Level 3 capabilities, which was tested on the Maserati Ghibli and Fiat 500X prototypes.[277]Stellantis is going to roll out Level 3 capability within its cars in 2024.[278]
"Back to the Future: Autonomous Driving in 1995 – Robotics Business Review". Robotics Business Review. 3 April 2015. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
^ "UN Regulation No. 156 – Software update and software update management system". UNECE. 4 March 2021. Retrieved 20 March 2022.
^ "Statement Regarding a Collision between a Pedestrian and a Toyota e-Palette Vehicle at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Athletes' Village". ToyotaTimes. 27 August 2021. Retrieved 17 November 2021.
"Korean firms enhance car cybersecurity before Level 3 autonomous car releases"
"Mercedes-Benz Drive Pilot certified for use in Nevada – first L3 system approved for US highways"
"Waymo is first to put fully self-driving cars on US roads without a safety driver"
"Microsoft and Toyota Join Forces in FIA World Rally Championship"
Brad Templeton (9 February 2021). "California Robocar Disengagement Reports Reveal Tidbits About Tesla, AutoX, Apple, Others". Forbes. Retrieved 24 April 2022.
Angel Sergeev (31 March 2017). "BMW Details Plan For Fully Automated Driving By 2021". Motor1.com.
Glancy, Dorothy (2016). A Look at the Legal Environment for Driverless Vehicles (PDF) (Report). National Cooperative Highway Research Program Legal Research Digest. Vol. 69. Washington, DC: Transportation Research Board. ISBN 978-0-309-37501-6. Retrieved 22 July 2016.
Steph Willems (28 July 2016). "Mercedes-Benz Slammed Over Misleading Commercial". The Truth About Cars. Retrieved 15 April 2022.
University, Carnegie Mellon. "Look, Ma, No Hands-CMU News – Carnegie Mellon University". cmu.edu. Retrieved 2 March 2017.
"Scope of Using Autonomous Trucks and Lorries for Parcel Deliveries in Urban Settings"
^ Stoklosa, Alexander (22 October 2020). "Tesla Puts "Beta" Version of Full Self-Driving Capability in Hands of Select Few". Motor Trend. Retrieved 25 October 2020.
"Meet the Companies Building Self-Driving Cars for Google and Tesla (And Maybe Apple)"
Michael Taylor; Carly Schaffner (4 November 2021). "BMW 7 Series To Reach Level 3 Autonomy Next Year". Forbes Wheels. Retrieved 22 November 2021.
Corke, Peter; Lobo, Jorge; Dias, Jorge (1 June 2007). "An Introduction to Inertial and Visual Sensing". The International Journal of Robotics Research. 26 (6): 519–535. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.93.5523. doi:10.1177/0278364907079279. S2CID 206499861.
"Honda Unveils Next-generation Technologies of Honda SENSING 360 and Honda SENSING Elite". Honda. 1 December 2022. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
Nichols, Greg (13 February 2016). "NHTSA chief takes conservative view on autonomous vehicles: "If you had perfect, connected autonomous vehicles on the road tomorrow, it would still take 20 to 30 years to turn over the fleet."". ZDNet. Retrieved 17 February 2016.
On 26 August 2021, a Toyota e-Palette, a mobility vehicle used to support mobility within the Athletes' Village at the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020, collided with a visually impaired pedestrian about to cross a pedestrian crossing.[256]The suspension was made after the accident, and restarted on 31 with improved safety measures.[257]
Hawkins, Andrew J. (7 November 2017). "Waymo is first to put fully self-driving cars on US roads without a safety driver". The Verge. Retrieved 7 November 2017.
Daily, Mike; Medasani, Swarup; Behringer, Reinhold; Trivedi, Mohan (December 2017). "Self-Driving Cars". Computer. 50 (12): 18–23. doi:10.1109/MC.2017.4451204. ISSN 1558-0814.
"Autonomous Vehicles Join the List of US National Security Threats". Wired. 21 November 2022. Retrieved 22 November 2022.
John A. Volpe National Transportation Systems Center (March 2016). "Review of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS) for Automated Vehicles: Identifying potential barriers and challenges for the certification of automated vehicles using existing FMVSS" (PDF). National Transportation Library. US Department of Transportation. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 June 2017. Retrieved 6 April 2016.
"Autonomous vehicle interactions in the urban street environment: a research agenda"
Lim, THazel Si Min; Taeihagh, Araz (2019). "Algorithmic Decision-Making in AVs: Understanding Ethical and Technical Concerns for Smart Cities". Sustainability. 11 (20): 5791. arXiv:1910.13122. Bibcode:2019arXiv191013122L. doi:10.3390/su11205791. S2CID 204951009.
^ "Robocar: Watch the world's fastest autonomous car reach its record-breaking 282 km/h". Guinness World Records. 17 October 2019. Retrieved 30 June 2020.
Hallerbach, S.; Xia, Y.; Eberle, U.; Koester, F. (2018). "Simulation-Based Identification of Critical Scenarios for Cooperative and Automated Vehicles". SAE International Journal of Connected and Automated Vehicles. SAE International. 1 (2): 93–106. doi:10.4271/2018-01-1066.
In May 2018, the US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) issued a preliminary report.[247] The final report 18 months later determined that the immediate cause of the accident was the safety driver's failure to monitor the road because she was distracted by her phone. However, Uber ATG's "inadequate safety culture" contributed to the crash. The report noted from the post-mortem that the victim had "a very high level" of methamphetamine in her body.[248] The board also called on federal regulators to carry out a review before allowing automated test vehicles to operate on public roads.[249][250]
^ "Waymo's Self-Driving Future Looks Real Now That the Hype Is Fading". Bloomberg.com. 21 January 2021. Retrieved 5 March 2021.
"Toyota to Offer Rides in SAE Level-4 Automated Vehicles on Public Roads in Japan Next Summer"
"UN Regulation No. 156 – Software update and software update management system". UNECE. 4 March 2021. Retrieved 20 March 2022.
Rearick, Brenden (16 August 2021). "NIO Stock: 10 Things to Know About the Fatal Crash Dragging Down Nio Today". InvestorPlace. Retrieved 17 February 2022.
^ "(GRVA) New Assessment/Test Method for Automated Driving (NATM) – Master Document". UNECE. 13 April 2021. Retrieved 23 April 2022.
Office of Defects Investigations, NHTSA (28 June 2016). "ODI Resume – Investigation: PE 16-007" (PDF). National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 July 2016. Retrieved 2 July 2016.
Justin Ling (1 July 2022). "Is Your New Car a Threat to National Security?". Wired. Retrieved 3 July 2022.
According to Google's accident reports as of early 2016, their test cars had been involved in 14 collisions, of which other drivers were at fault 13 times, although in 2016 the car's software caused a crash.[236]
"This Is Big: A Robo-Car Just Drove Across the Country"
"Google Self-Driving Car Project, Monthly Report, March 2016" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 September 2016. Retrieved 23 March 2016.
Skulmowski, Alexander; Bunge, Andreas; Kaspar, Kai; Pipa, Gordon (16 December 2014). "Forced-choice decision-making in modified trolley dilemma situations: a virtual reality and eye tracking study". Frontiers in Behavioral Neuroscience. 8: 426. doi:10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00426. PMC 4267265. PMID 25565997.
^ Cavoli, Clemence; Phillips, Brian (2017). Tom Cohen. "Social and behavioural questions associated with Automated Vehicles A Literature Review" (PDF). UCL Transport Institute.
Bensinger, Greg; Higgins, Tim (22 March 2018). "Video Shows Moments Before Uber Robot Car Rammed into Pedestrian". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
Jack, Boeglin (1 January 2015). "The Costs of Self-Driving Cars: Reconciling Freedom and Privacy with Tort Liability in Autonomous Vehicle Regulation". Yale Journal of Law and Technology. 17 (1).
"Nio's Autopilot, NOP, Faces Intense Scrutiny With First Fatal Crash in China"
"Statement Regarding a Collision between a Pedestrian and a Toyota e-Palette Vehicle at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Athletes' Village"
"Symmetrical Simulation Scheme for Anomaly Detection in Autonomous Vehicles Based on LSTM Model"
.mw-parser-output .vanchor>:target~.vanchor-text{background-color:#b1d2ff}Level 0: The automated system issues warnings and may momentarily intervene but has no sustained vehicle control.
"California DMV accuses Tesla of deceptive marketing for its self-driving tech"
Hallerbach, Sven; Xia, Yiqun; Eberle, Ulrich; Koester, Frank (3 April 2018). "Simulation-based Identification of Critical Scenarios for Cooperative and Automated Vehicles". Toolchain for simulation-based development and testing of Automated Driving. SAE World Congress 2018. SAE Technical Paper Series. Vol. 1. pp. 93–106. doi:10.4271/2018-01-1066. Retrieved 22 December 2018.
^ "Automobile simulation example". Cyberbotics. 18 June 2018. Retrieved 18 June 2018.
^ Stumpf, Rob (8 March 2021). "Tesla Admits Current "Full Self-Driving Beta" Will Always Be a Level 2 System: Emails". The Drive. Retrieved 29 August 2021.
Mike Beevor (11 April 2019). "Driving autonomous vehicles forward with intelligent infrastructure". Smart Cities World. Retrieved 27 April 2022.
^ "What's big, orange and covered in LEDs? This start-up's new approach to self-driving cars". NBC News.
"Waymo's Collision Avoidance Testing: Evaluating our Driver's Ability to Avoid Crashes Compared to Humans"
TopicsIn November 2021, the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) notified Pony.ai that it was suspending its driverless testing permit following a reported collision in Fremont on 28 October. This incident stands out because the vehicle was in autonomous mode and didn't involve any other vehicle.[211]In May 2022, DMV revoked Pony.ai's permit for failing to monitor the driving records of the safety drivers on its testing permit.[212]
Seigo Kuzumaki. "Development of "Driving Intelligence Validation Platform" for ADS safety assurance" (PDF). SIP-adus. Retrieved 12 September 2022.
^ Crowe, Steve (3 April 2015). "Back to the Future: Autonomous Driving in 1995 – Robotics Trends". roboticstrends.com. Retrieved 2 March 2017.
According to research, people overwhelmingly express a preference for autonomous vehicles to be programmed with utilitarian ideas, that is, in a manner that generates the least harm and minimizes driving casualties.[172] While people want others to purchase utilitarian promoting vehicles, they themselves prefer to ride in vehicles that prioritize the lives of people inside the vehicle at all costs.[172] This presents a paradox in which people prefer that others drive utilitarian vehicles designed to maximize the lives preserved in a fatal situation but want to ride in cars that prioritize the safety of passengers at all costs.[172] People disapprove of regulations that promote utilitarian views and would be less willing to purchase a self-driving car that may opt to promote the greatest good at the expense of its passengers.[172]
Shepardson, David (12 July 2016). "NHTSA seeks answers on fatal Tesla Autopilot crash". Automotive News. Retrieved 13 July 2016.
In California, self-driving car manufacturers are required to submit annual reports to share how often their vehicles disengaged from autonomous mode during tests.[191]It has been believed that we would learn how reliable the vehicles are becoming based on how often they needed "disengagements".[192]
Yeong, De Jong; Velasco-Hernandez, Gustavo; Barry, John; Walsh, Joseph (2021). "Sensor and Sensor Fusion Technology in Autonomous Vehicles: A Review". Sensors. 21 (6): 2140. Bibcode:2021Senso..21.2140Y. doi:10.3390/s21062140. ISSN 1424-8220. PMC 8003231. PMID 33803889.
The potential benefits from increased vehicle automation described may be limited by foreseeable challenges such as disputes over liability,[114][115] the time needed to turn over the existing stock of vehicles from non-automated to automated,[116] and thus a long period of humans and autonomous vehicles sharing the roads, resistance by individuals to forfeiting control of their cars,[117] concerns about safety,[118] and the implementation of a legal framework and consistent global government regulations for self-driving cars.[119] In addition, cyberattacks could be a potential threat to autonomous driving in the future.[120]
"Automotive luxury experienced in a completely new way – The main points of the new Mercedes-Benz S-Class at a glance"
^ Levin, Alan; Plungis, Jeff (8 July 2016). "NTSB to scrutinize driver automation with probe of Tesla crash". Automotive News. Retrieved 11 July 2016.
"Mercedes-Benz self-driving car technology approved for use". Feet News. 9 December 2021. Archived from the original on 9 December 2021. Retrieved 10 December 2021.
^ Smiley, Lauren. "'I'm the Operator': The Aftermath of a Self-Driving Tragedy". Wired. ISSN 1059-1028. Retrieved 24 October 2022.
"Mercedes DRIVE PILOT: Level 3 luxury, coming soon to US". 22 July 2022.
"BOSCH – STUTTGART AIRPORT SET TO WELCOME FULLY AUTOMATED AND DRIVERLESS PARKING". IoT Automotive News. Retrieved 21 May 2022.
"Automobile simulation example". Cyberbotics. 18 June 2018. Retrieved 18 June 2018.
^ Roberto Baldwin (9 March 2021). "Tesla Tells California DMV that FSD Is Not Capable of Autonomous Driving". Car and Driver.
"BMW, Mercedes, Bosch welcome regulatory boost for "eyes-off" self-driving tech". 26 June 2020.
^ California Department of Motor Vehicles. "The Self-Driving Car Companies Going The Distance". Statista. Archived from the original on 25 February 2019. Retrieved 21 December 2019.
^ Durrant-Whyte, H.; Bailey, T. (5 June 2006). "Simultaneous localization and mapping". IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine. 13 (2): 99–110. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.135.9810. doi:10.1109/mra.2006.1638022. ISSN 1070-9932. S2CID 8061430.
^ "Believing too much in the words "automatic driving", the CEO of a Chinese startup company crashed into a construction vehicle in self-driving mode and died | T客邦". News Directory 3. 20 August 2021. Retrieved 17 February 2022.
Maki, Sydney; Sage, Alexandria (19 March 2018). "Self-driving Uber car kills Arizona woman crossing street". Reuters. Retrieved 14 April 2019.
A 2012 survey of 17,400 vehicle owners by J.D. Power and Associates found 37% initially said they would be interested in purchasing a "fully autonomous car". However, that figure dropped to 20% if told the technology would cost US$3,000 more.[259]
^ Ross, Philip E. (11 April 2014). "A Cloud-Connected Car Is a Hackable Car, Worries Microsoft". IEEE Spectrum. Retrieved 23 April 2014.
"Waymo's Collision Avoidance Testing: Evaluating our Driver's Ability to Avoid Crashes Compared to Humans". Waymo. 14 December 2022. Retrieved 15 December 2022.
"Simulation-Based Identification of Critical Scenarios for Cooperative and Automated Vehicles"
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Taeihagh, Araz; Lim, Hazel Si Min (2 January 2019). "Governing autonomous vehicles: emerging responses for safety, liability, privacy, cybersecurity, and industry risks". Transport Reviews. 39 (1): 103–128. arXiv:1807.05720. doi:10.1080/01441647.2018.1494640. ISSN 0144-1647. S2CID 49862783.
Artificial intelligence is still not able to function properly in chaotic inner-city environments.[125]
^ Said, Carolyn (27 March 2018). "Uber puts the brakes on testing robot cars in California after Arizona fatality". San Francisco Chronicle. Retrieved 8 April 2018.
^ Nico DeMattia (5 November 2021). "2022 BMW 7 Series Will Get Level 3 Autonomous Driving Next Year". BMWBLOG. Retrieved 22 November 2021.
In March 2021, UNECE regulation on software update and software update management system was published.[107]
"Early rider program – FAQ – Early Rider Program – Waymo"
^ Alsulami, Abdulaziz A.; Abu Al-Haija, Qasem; Alqahtani, Ali; Alsini, Raed (15 July 2022). "Symmetrical Simulation Scheme for Anomaly Detection in Autonomous Vehicles Based on LSTM Model". Symmetry. 14 (7): 1450. Bibcode:2022Symm...14.1450A. doi:10.3390/sym14071450. ISSN 2073-8994.
"Algorithmic Decision-Making in AVs: Understanding Ethical and Technical Concerns for Smart Cities"
SingularityU The Netherlands (1 September 2016), Carlo van de Weijer on real intelligence, archived from the original on 30 October 2021, retrieved 21 November 2016
^ Moore-Colyer, Roland (12 February 2015). "Driverless cars face cyber security, skills and safety challenges". v3.co.uk. Retrieved 24 April 2015.
"(GRVA) New Assessment/Test Method for Automated Driving (NATM) – Master Document". UNECE. 13 April 2021. Retrieved 23 April 2022.
"Review of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS) for Automated Vehicles: Identifying potential barriers and challenges for the certification of automated vehicles using existing FMVSS"
"New Benteler brand Holon presents world's first autonomous mover built to automotive standards"
^ Nichols, Greg (13 February 2016). "NHTSA chief takes conservative view on autonomous vehicles: "If you had perfect, connected autonomous vehicles on the road tomorrow, it would still take 20 to 30 years to turn over the fleet."". ZDNet. Retrieved 17 February 2016.
"Slow Self-Driving Car Progress Tests Investors' Patience". The Wall Street Journal. 28 November 2022. Retrieved 14 December 2022.
^ Steckhan, Lorenz; Spiessl, Wolfgang; Quetschlich, Nils; Bengler, Klaus (2022),Krömker, Heidi (ed.), "Beyond SAE J3016: New Design Spaces for Human-Centered Driving Automation", HCI in Mobility, Transport, and Automotive Systems, Cham: Springer International Publishing, vol. 13335, pp. 416–434, doi:10.1007/978-3-031-04987-3_28, ISBN 978-3-031-04986-6, retrieved 24 January 2023
"BMW 7 Series To Reach Level 3 Autonomy Next Year"
^ "Fatal Tesla Autopilot accident investigation ends with no recall ordered". The Verge. 19 January 2016. Retrieved 19 January 2017.
^ Hu, J.; Bhowmick, P.; Jang, I.;Arvin, F.; Lanzon, A., "A Decentralized Cluster Formation Containment Framework for Multirobot Systems" IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2021.
"世界初！ 自動運転車（レベル3）の型式指定を行いました" [The world's first! approval of level-3 type designation for certification]. MLIT, Japan (in Japanese). 11 November 2020. Retrieved 6 March 2021.
^ "Back to the Future: Autonomous Driving in 1995 – Robotics Business Review". Robotics Business Review. 3 April 2015. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
Keith Barry. "Senators Call for Investigation of Tesla's Marketing Claims of Its Autopilot and "Full Self-Driving" Features". Consumer Reports. Retrieved 13 April 2020.
"Nissan's Path to Self-Driving Cars? Humans in Call Centers". Wired.
^ Weber, Marc (8 May 2014). "Where to? A History of Autonomous Vehicles". Computer History Museum. Retrieved 26 July 2018.
Petit, J.; Shladover, S.E. (1 April 2015). "Potential Cyberattacks on Automated Vehicles". IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems. 16 (2): 546–556. doi:10.1109/TITS.2014.2342271. ISSN 1524-9050. S2CID 15605711.
"Preliminary Report Released for Crash Involving Pedestrian, Uber Technologies, Inc., Test Vehicle" (PDF). 24 May 2018. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 June 2018.
Seo Jin-woo; Jung You-jung; Lee Ha-yeon (16 February 2022). "Korean firms enhance car cybersecurity before Level 3 autonomous car releases". Pulse by Maeil Business Newspaper. Retrieved 22 April 2022.
"California DMV releases autonomous vehicle disengagement reports for 2019". VentureBeat. 26 February 2020. Retrieved 30 November 2020.
"Video Friday: Bosch and Cars, ROVs and Whales, and Kuka Arms and Chainsaws"
"Transcript: AI and AVs: Implications in U.S.-China Competition". CSIS. 27 April 2022. Retrieved 24 May 2022.
Inagaki, Toshiyuki; Sheridan, Thomas B. (November 2019). "A critique of the SAE conditional driving automation definition, and analyses of options for improvement". Cognition, Technology & Work. 21 (4): 569–578. doi:10.1007/s10111-018-0471-5. ISSN 1435-5558. S2CID 254144879.
^ Leggett, Theo (22 May 2018). "Who is to blame for "self-driving car" deaths?". BBC News.
Tussy, Ron (29 April 2016). "Challenges facing Autonomous Vehicle Development". AutoSens. Retrieved 5 May 2016.
"Automated Driving – Levels of Driving Automation are Defined in New SAE International Standard J3016" (PDF). SAE International. 2014. Archived (PDF) from the original on 1 July 2018.
Autonomous cars may require high-definition maps to operate properly. Where these maps may be out of date, they would need to be able to fall back to reasonable behaviors.
"Governor Ducey suspends Uber from automated vehicle testing". KNXV-TV. Associated Press. 27 March 2018. Retrieved 27 March 2018.
"European Roadmap Smart Systems for Automated Driving" (PDF). EPoSS. 2015. Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 February 2015.
Gibbs, Samuel (9 November 2017). "Self-driving bus involved in crash less than two hours after Las Vegas launch". The Guardian. Retrieved 9 November 2017.
^ a b Kyriakidis, M.; Happee, R.; De Winter, J. C. F. (2015). "Public opinion on automated driving: Results of an international questionnaire among 5,000 respondents". Transportation Research Part F: Traffic Psychology and Behaviour. 32: 127–140. doi:10.1016/j.trf.2015.04.014.
The service layer contains the applications and their functionalities that serves the autonomous vehicle (and its owners) as they extract, create, store and consume content with regards to their own driving history, traffic congestion, roads or parking abilities for example.;
In October 2021, the Europe's comprehensive pilot test of automated driving on public roads, L3Pilot, demonstrated automated systems for cars in Hamburg, Germany, in conjunction with ITS World Congress 2021. SAE Level 3 and 4 functions were tested on ordinary roads.[200][201]At the end of February 2022, the final results of the L3Pilot project were published.[202]
Connor-Simons, Adam; Gordon, Rachel (7 May 2018). "Self-driving cars for country roads: Today's automated vehicles require hand-labeled 3-D maps, but CSAIL's MapLite system enables navigation with just GPS and sensors". Retrieved 14 May 2018.
"Mercedes rejects claims about "misleading" self-driving car ads". Reuters. 25 April 2016. Retrieved 15 April 2022.
Xie, S.; Hu, J.;Ding, Z.; Arvin, F., "Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control for Connected Autonomous Vehicles using Spring Damping Energy Model" IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, 2022.
"Two Years On, A Father Is Still Fighting Tesla Over Autopilot And His Son's Fatal Crash"
"Believing too much in the words "automatic driving", the CEO of a Chinese startup company crashed into a construction vehicle in self-driving mode and died | T客邦"
^ Shalev-Shwartz, Shai; Shammah, Shaked; Shashua, Amnon (2017). "On a Formal Model of Safe and Scalable Self-driving Cars". arXiv:1708.06374 [cs.RO].
8Incidents											Toggle Incidents subsection																					8.1Tesla Autopilot																											8.2Waymo																											8.3Uber's Advanced Technologies Group (ATG)																											8.4Navya Arma driving system																											8.5NIO Navigate on Pilot																											8.6Toyota e-Palette operation
"fully automated vehicle" means a motor vehicle that has been designed and constructed to move autonomously without any driver supervision;[67]
^ a b Antsaklis, Panos J.; Passino, Kevin M.; Wang, S.J. (1991). "An Introduction to Autonomous Control Systems" (PDF). IEEE Control Systems Magazine. 11 (4): 5–13. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.840.976. doi:10.1109/37.88585. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 May 2017. Retrieved 21 January 2019.
^ Angel Sergeev (31 March 2017). "BMW Details Plan For Fully Automated Driving By 2021". Motor1.com.
^ "Nuro set to be California's first driverless delivery service". BBC News. 24 December 2020. Retrieved 27 December 2020.
"Tesla Puts "Beta" Version of Full Self-Driving Capability in Hands of Select Few"
Martin Bigg (12 October 2021). "Honda Is Beating Tesla in Driverless Car Race". CarBuzz. Retrieved 10 November 2021.
"Waymo's Self-Driving Future Looks Real Now That the Hype Is Fading"
River Davis (2 August 2021). "Hyperdrive Daily: The Driverless Shuttle Helping Toyota Win Gold". Bloomberg News. Retrieved 7 November 2021.
^ "世界初！ 自動運転車（レベル3）の型式指定を行いました" [The world's first! approval of level-3 type designation for certification]. MLIT, Japan (in Japanese). 11 November 2020. Retrieved 6 March 2021.
Wang, Brian (25 March 2018). "Uber' self-driving system was still 400 times worse [than] Waymo in 2018 on key distance intervention metric". NextBigFuture.com. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
TrustIn order for people to buy self-driving cars and vote for the government to allow them on roads, the technology must be trusted as safe.[161][162] Self-driving elevators were invented in 1900, but the high number of people refusing to use them slowed adoption for several decades until operator strikes increased demand and trust was built with advertising and features like the emergency stop button.[163][164] There are three types of trust between human and automation.[165] There is dispositional trust, the trust between the driver and the company's product;[165] there is situational trust, or the trust from different scenarios;[165] and there is learned trust where the trust is built between similar events.[165]
In September 2020, the backup driver, Rafael Vasquez, was charged with negligent homicide, because she did not look at the road for several seconds while her phone was streaming The Voice broadcast by Hulu. She pleaded not guilty and was released to await trial. Uber does not face any criminal charge because in the USA there is no basis for criminal liability for the corporation. The safety driver is assumed to be responsible of the accident, because she was in the driving seat in a capacity to avoid an accident (like in a Level 3). The trial was planned for February 2021.[251][needs update]
Ackerman, Evan (25 January 2013). "Video Friday: Bosch and Cars, ROVs and Whales, and Kuka Arms and Chainsaws". IEEE Spectrum. Retrieved 26 February 2013.
"Audi of America / news / Pool / Reaffirmed Mission for Autonomous Audi TTS Pikes Peak". AudiUSA.com. Archived from the original on 10 July 2012. Retrieved 28 April 2012.
"What's in a name? For Tesla's Full Self Driving, it may be danger"
^ Aarian Marshall (27 May 2022). "An Autonomous Car Blocked a Fire Truck Responding to an Emergency". Wired. Retrieved 30 May 2022.
^ Nick Gibbs (9 December 2021). "Stellantis will roll out Level 3 self-driving in 2024". Automotive News. Retrieved 25 April 2022.
Hewitt, Charlie; Politis, Ioannis; Amanatidis, Theocharis; Sarkar, Advait (2019). "Assessing public perception of self-driving cars: the autonomous vehicle acceptance model". Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. ACM Press: 518–527. doi:10.1145/3301275.3302268. S2CID 67773581.
^ Jay Ramey (11 January 2022). "Polestar 3 with Level 3 Autonomous Tech on the Way". Autoweek. Retrieved 31 May 2022.
"Carnegie Mellon". Navlab: The Carnegie Mellon University Navigation Laboratory. The Robotics Institute. Retrieved 20 December 2014.
"Autonomous micro-mobility simulation study". MIT Media Lab. Retrieved 3 December 2022.
"BMW, Mercedes, Bosch welcome regulatory boost for "eyes-off" self-driving tech"
In November 2022, Honda unveiled the "Honda CI Micro-mobility" machines and their core technologies. Honda starts demonstration testing using "Honda CI Micro-mobility" machines, "CiKoMa" and "WaPOCH", at two locations in Jōsō City of Ibaraki Prefecture.[182]
"Robocar: Watch the world's fastest autonomous car reach its record-breaking 282 km/h". Guinness World Records. 17 October 2019. Retrieved 30 June 2020.
Yadron, Danny; Tynan, Dan (1 July 2016). "Tesla driver dies in first fatal crash while using autopilot mode". The Guardian. San Francisco. Retrieved 1 July 2016.
^ Xie, S.; Hu, J.;Ding, Z.; Arvin, F., "Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control for Connected Autonomous Vehicles using Spring Damping Energy Model" IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, 2022.
"Waymo will allow more people to ride in its fully driverless vehicles in Phoenix"
"Traffic Jam Chauffeur: Autonomous driving in traffic jams". 28 August 2016.
In July 2020, Toyota started testing with public demonstration rides on Lexus LS (fifth generation) based TRI-P4 with Level 4 capability.[285]In August 2021, Toyota operated potentially Level 4 service using e-Palette around the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Village.[286]
"Survey Data Suggests Self-Driving Cars Could Be Slow To Gain Consumer Trust"
^ "Honda testing Level 4 autonomous driving technology". NHK World. 30 October 2021. Retrieved 24 November 2021.
Field programmability for the systems will require careful evaluation of product development and the component supply chain.[130]
Aarian Marshall (27 May 2022). "An Autonomous Car Blocked a Fire Truck Responding to an Emergency". Wired. Retrieved 30 May 2022.
^ a b c d Lim, THazel Si Min; Taeihagh, Araz (2019). "Algorithmic Decision-Making in AVs: Understanding Ethical and Technical Concerns for Smart Cities". Sustainability. 11 (20): 5791. arXiv:1910.13122. Bibcode:2019arXiv191013122L. doi:10.3390/su11205791. S2CID 204951009.
"This Is Big: A Robo-Car Just Drove Across the Country". WIRED. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
Zhao, Jianfeng; Liang, Bodong; Chen, Qiuxia (2 January 2018). "The key technology toward the self-driving car". International Journal of Intelligent Unmanned Systems. 6 (1): 2–20. doi:10.1108/IJIUS-08-2017-0008. ISSN 2049-6427.
^ Rebecca Bellan (10 February 2022). "Despite a drop in how many companies are testing autonomous driving on California roads, miles driven are way up". TechCrunch. Retrieved 25 April 2022.
7Testing											Toggle Testing subsection																					7.1Approaches																											7.2Disengagements in the 2010s																											7.3In the 2020s
^ European Commission (2019). STRIA Roadmap Connected and Automated Transport: Road, Rail and Waterborne (PDF).
"Uber back-up driver faulted in fatal autonomous car crash". Financial Times. 19 November 2019. Retrieved 24 October 2022.
National securityIn the 2020s, from the importance of the automotive sector to the nation, self-driving car has become a topic of national security. The concerns regarding cybersecurity and data protection are not only important for user protection, but also in the context of national security. The trove of data collected by self-driving cars, paired with cybersecurity vulnerabilities, creates an appealing target for intelligence collection. Self-driving cars are required to be considered in a new way when it comes to espionage risk.[148]
"Ocado in self-driving vans push with £10m stake in Oxbotica". BBC News. 16 April 2021. Retrieved 14 May 2022.
^ Steph Willems (28 July 2016). "Mercedes-Benz Slammed Over Misleading Commercial". The Truth About Cars. Retrieved 15 April 2022.
^ "Federal Automated Vehicles Policy" (PDF). NHTSA, U.S. September 2016. p. 9. Retrieved 1 December 2021.
Kyriakidis, M.; Happee, R.; De Winter, J. C. F. (2015). "Public opinion on automated driving: Results of an international questionnaire among 5,000 respondents". Transportation Research Part F: Traffic Psychology and Behaviour. 32: 127–140. doi:10.1016/j.trf.2015.04.014.
As of December 2022[update], several manufacturers had scaled back plans for self-driving technology, including Ford and Volkswagen.[20]
Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style.
^ Martin Bigg (12 October 2021). "Honda Is Beating Tesla in Driverless Car Race". CarBuzz. Retrieved 10 November 2021.
Smiley, Lauren. "'I'm the Operator': The Aftermath of a Self-Driving Tragedy". Wired. ISSN 1059-1028. Retrieved 24 October 2022.
Stayton, E.; Stilgoe, J. (September 2020). "It's Time to Rethink Levels of Automation for Self-Driving Vehicles [Opinion]". IEEE Technology and Society Magazine. 39 (3): 13–19. doi:10.1109/MTS.2020.3012315. ISSN 1937-416X.
Antsaklis, Panos J.; Passino, Kevin M.; Wang, S.J. (1991). "An Introduction to Autonomous Control Systems" (PDF). IEEE Control Systems Magazine. 11 (4): 5–13. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.840.976. doi:10.1109/37.88585. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 May 2017. Retrieved 21 January 2019.
^ Rafael Borghi (10 January 2022). "Deep Learning in Games to Improve Autonomous Driving". Dublin Business School. Retrieved 11 September 2022.
^ Bensinger, Greg; Higgins, Tim (22 March 2018). "Video Shows Moments Before Uber Robot Car Rammed into Pedestrian". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
"Majority of world's population feel self-driving cars are unsafe". Lloyd's Register Foundation. 25 November 2022. Retrieved 4 December 2022.
^ Yeong, De Jong; Velasco-Hernandez, Gustavo; Barry, John; Walsh, Joseph (2021). "Sensor and Sensor Fusion Technology in Autonomous Vehicles: A Review". Sensors. 21 (6): 2140. Bibcode:2021Senso..21.2140Y. doi:10.3390/s21062140. ISSN 1424-8220. PMC 8003231. PMID 33803889.
^ Himmelreich, Johannes (17 May 2018). "Never Mind the Trolley: The Ethics of Autonomous Vehicles in Mundane Situations". Ethical Theory and Moral Practice. 21 (3): 669–684. doi:10.1007/s10677-018-9896-4. ISSN 1386-2820. S2CID 150184601.
^ "New Allstate Survey Shows Americans Think They Are Great Drivers – Habits Tell a Different Story". PR Newswire. 2 August 2011. Retrieved 7 September 2013.
^ a b "For the first time, Google's self-driving car takes some blame for a crash". The Washington Post. 29 February 2016.
9Public opinion surveys											Toggle Public opinion surveys subsection																					9.1In the 2010s																											9.2In the 2020s
^ Zhou, Naaman (1 July 2017). "Volvo admits its self-driving cars are confused by kangaroos". The Guardian. Retrieved 1 July 2017.
Rebecca Bellan (25 May 2022). "Pony.ai loses permit to test autonomous vehicles with driver in California". TechCrunch. Retrieved 30 May 2022.
Negroponte, Nicholas (1 January 2000). Being digital. Vintage Books. ISBN 978-0679762904. OCLC 68020226.
The second challenge is known as risk compensation: as a system is perceived to be safer, instead of benefiting entirely from all of the increased safety, people engage in riskierbehavior and enjoy other benefits. Semi-automated cars have been shown to suffer from this problem, for example with users of Tesla Autopilot ignoring the road and using electronic devices or other activities against the advice of the company that the car is not capable of being completely autonomous. In the near future, pedestrians and bicyclists may travel in the street in a riskier fashion if they believe self-driving cars are capable of avoiding them.
^ Lin, Patrick (8 October 2013). "The Ethics of Autonomous Cars". The Atlantic.
^ "New International Standard Issued for the Scenario-Based Safety Evaluation Framework for Automated Driving Systems Formulated by Japan". METI, Japan. 16 November 2022. Retrieved 14 December 2022.
^ "Hackers find ways to hijack car computers and take control". Financial Post. 3 September 2013. Retrieved 7 September 2013.
Alsulami, Abdulaziz A.; Abu Al-Haija, Qasem; Alqahtani, Ali; Alsini, Raed (15 July 2022). "Symmetrical Simulation Scheme for Anomaly Detection in Autonomous Vehicles Based on LSTM Model". Symmetry. 14 (7): 1450. Bibcode:2022Symm...14.1450A. doi:10.3390/sym14071450. ISSN 2073-8994.
"Self-driving vehicles listed for use in Great Britain". GOV.UK. 20 April 2022. Retrieved 19 July 2022.
DisengagementsAs of 2022[update], "disengagements" are at the center of the controversy. The problem is that reporting companies have varying definitions of what qualifies as a disengagement, and that definition can change over time.[197][192]Executives of self-driving car companies have criticized disengagements as a deceptive metric, because it does not take into account the higher degree of difficulty navigating urban streets compared with interstates highway.[198]
Morris, David (8 November 2020). "What's in a name? For Tesla's Full Self Driving, it may be danger". Fortune. Retrieved 8 March 2021.
"L3Pilot: Joint European effort boosts automated driving". Connected Automated Driving. 15 October 2021. Retrieved 9 November 2021.
^ "Toyota sneak previews self-drive car ahead of tech show". BBC News. 4 January 2013. Retrieved 4 January 2013.
"'Phantom Auto' will tour city". The Milwaukee Sentinel. 8 December 1926. Retrieved 23 July 2013.[permanent dead link]
The SAE Automation Levels have been criticized for their technological focus. It has been argued that the structure of the levels suggests that automation increases linearly and that more automation is better, which may not always be the case.[87] The SAE Levels also do not account for changes that may be required to infrastructure[88] and road user behavior.[89][90]
"Survey Data Suggests Self-Driving Cars Could Be Slow To Gain Consumer Trust". GM Authority. Retrieved 3 September 2018.
^ "SIP自動運転の成果を活用した安全性評価用シミュレーションソフトの製品化～戦略的イノベーション創造プログラム（SIP）研究成果を社会実装へ～" [Commercial product of the achievement of SIP-adus: Driving Intelligence Validation Platform]. Cabinet Office, Japan. 6 September 2022. Retrieved 10 September 2022.
"Autonomous Cars Found Trustworthy in Global Study". autosphere.ca. 22 May 2013. Retrieved 6 September 2013.
Mathur, Vishal (17 July 2015). "Google Autonomous Car Experiences Another Crash". Government Technology. Retrieved 18 July 2015.
"The Justice Dept. accuses Chinese security officials of a hacking attack seeking data on viruses like Ebola"
Gold, Christian; Körber, Moritz; Hohenberger, Christoph; Lechner, David; Bengler, Klaus (1 January 2015). "Trust in Automation – Before and After the Experience of Take-over Scenarios in a Highly Automated Vehicle". Procedia Manufacturing. 3: 3025–3032. doi:10.1016/j.promfg.2015.07.847. ISSN 2351-9789.
In a 2012 survey of about 1,000 German drivers by automotive researcher Puls, 22% of the respondents had a positive attitude towards these cars, 10% were undecided, 44% were skeptical and 24% were hostile.[260]
"The Pathway to Driverless Cars: A Code of Practice for testing"
In November 2022, an International Standard ISO 34502 on "Scenario based safety evaluation framework" was published.[203][204]
^ "JASO TP 18004: 自動車用運転自動化システムのレベル分類及び定義" [JASO TP 18004: Taxonomy and Definitions for Terms Related to Driving Automation Systems] (PDF). JASO, Japan. 1 February 2018. Retrieved 1 December 2021.
In January 2022, Polestar, a Volvo Cars' brand, indicated its plan to offer Level 3 autonomous driving system in the Polestar 3 SUV, Volvo XC90 successor, with technologies from Luminar Technologies, Nvidia, and Zenseact.[279]
"Preliminary Report Released for Crash Involving Pedestrian, Uber Technologies, Inc., Test Vehicle"
In 2017, Waymo reported 63 disengagements over 352,545 mi (567,366 km) of testing, an average distance of 5,596 mi (9,006 km) between disengagements, the highest among companies reporting such figures. Waymo also traveled a greater total distance than any of the other companies. Their 2017 rate of 0.18 disengagements per 1,000 mi (1,600 km) was an improvement over the 0.2 disengagements per 1,000 mi (1,600 km) in 2016, and 0.8 in 2015. In March 2017, Uber reported an average of just 0.67 mi (1.08 km) per disengagement. In the final three months of 2017, Cruise (now owned by GM) averaged 5,224 mi (8,407 km) per disengagement over a total distance of 62,689 mi (100,888 km).[193] In July 2018, the first electric driver-less racing car, "Robocar", completed a 1.8-kilometer track, using its navigation system and artificial intelligence.[194]
^ "Self-driving vehicles listed for use in Great Britain". GOV.UK. 20 April 2022. Retrieved 19 July 2022.
^ Henn, Steve (31 July 2015). "Remembering When Driverless Elevators Drew Skepticism". NPR.org. NPR. Retrieved 14 August 2016.
^ "Preliminary Report Released for Crash Involving Pedestrian, Uber Technologies, Inc., Test Vehicle" (PDF). 24 May 2018. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 June 2018.
Laursen, Lucas (28 August 2017). "The Tech That Won the First Formula Student Driverless Race". IEEE Spectrum.
Silver, David (20 January 2018). "Limited talent pool is standing in the way of driverless cars". The Next Web.
"Follow The Money Of Robotaxis: A Massive Market Of Dollars And Obstacles". Forbes. 30 March 2021. Retrieved 12 July 2021.
^ University, Carnegie Mellon. "Look, Ma, No Hands-CMU News – Carnegie Mellon University". cmu.edu. Retrieved 2 March 2017.
"Follow The Money Of Robotaxis: A Massive Market Of Dollars And Obstacles"
MapsSelf-driving cars require a new class of high-definition maps (HD maps) that represent the world at up to two orders of magnitude more detail.[93] In May 2018, researchers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) announced that they had built an automated car that can navigate unmapped roads.[98] Researchers at their Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) have developed a new system, called MapLite, which allows self-driving cars to drive on roads that they have never been on before, without using 3D maps. The system combines the GPS position of the vehicle, a "sparse topological map" such as OpenStreetMap (i.e. having 2D features of the roads only), and a series of sensors that observe the road conditions.[99]
Distributed Motion Planning for Safe Autonomous Vehicle Overtaking via Artificial Potential Field
Kif Leswing (22 August 2022). "Former Apple engineer accused of stealing automotive trade secrets pleads guilty". CNBC. Retrieved 23 August 2022.
^ Stayton, E.; Stilgoe, J. (September 2020). "It's Time to Rethink Levels of Automation for Self-Driving Vehicles [Opinion]". IEEE Technology and Society Magazine. 39 (3): 13–19. doi:10.1109/MTS.2020.3012315. ISSN 1937-416X.
Lim, Hazel Si Min; Taeihagh, Araz (2018). "Autonomous Vehicles for Smart and Sustainable Cities: An In-Depth Exploration of Privacy and Cybersecurity Implications". Energies. 11 (5): 1062. arXiv:1804.10367. Bibcode:2018arXiv180410367L. doi:10.3390/en11051062. S2CID 13749987.
^ "Survey Data Suggests Self-Driving Cars Could Be Slow To Gain Consumer Trust". GM Authority. Retrieved 3 September 2018.
Mark Schaub; Atticus Zhao; Mark Fu (24 August 2021). "China MIIT formulating new rules on data security". King & Wood Mallesons. Retrieved 23 April 2022.
Zhou, Naaman (1 July 2017). "Volvo admits its self-driving cars are confused by kangaroos". The Guardian. Retrieved 1 July 2017.
"Public opinion on automated driving: Results of an international questionnaire among 5,000 respondents"
James Andrew Lewis (28 June 2021). "National Security Implications of Leadership in Autonomous Vehicles". CSIS. Retrieved 12 April 2022.
"Adopting Aviation Safety Knowledge into the Discussions of Safe Implementation of Connected and Autonomous Road Vehicles"
Allyson Chiu (11 July 2018). "Ex-Apple engineer arrested on his way to China, charged with stealing company's autonomous car secrets". The Washington Post. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
"Federal Automated Vehicles Policy" (PDF). NHTSA, U.S. September 2016. p. 9. Retrieved 1 December 2021.
"New Allstate Survey Shows Americans Think They Are Great Drivers – Habits Tell a Different Story". PR Newswire. 2 August 2011. Retrieved 7 September 2013.
^ Lubben, Alex (19 March 2018). "Self-driving Uber killed a pedestrian as human safety driver watched". Vice News. Retrieved 18 November 2021.
^ a b c d Narayanan, Santhanakrishnan; Chaniotakis, Emmanouil; Antoniou, Constantinos (1 February 2020). "Shared autonomous vehicle services: A comprehensive review". Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies. 111: 255–293. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2019.12.008. ISSN 0968-090X. S2CID 213859884.
"It's Time to Rethink Levels of Automation for Self-Driving Vehicles [Opinion]"
Level 1 ("hands on"): The driver and the automated system share control of the vehicle. Examples are systems where the driver controls steering and the automated system controls engine power to maintain a set speed (Cruise control) or engine and brake power to maintain and vary speed (Adaptive cruise control or ACC); and Parking Assistance, where steering is automated while speed is under manual control. The driver must be ready to retake full control at any time. Lane Keeping Assistance (LKA) Type II is a further example of Level 1 self-driving. Automatic emergency braking which alerts the driver to a crash and permits full braking capacity is also a Level 1 feature, according to Autopilot Review magazine.[83]
^ Brodsky, Jessica (2016). "Autonomous Vehicle Regulation: How an Uncertain Legal Landscape May Hit the Brakes on Self-Driving Cars". Berkeley Technology Law Journal. 31 (Annual Review 2016): 851–878. Retrieved 29 November 2017.
Beresford, Colin (4 March 2021). "Honda Legend Sedan with Level 3 Autonomy Available for Lease in Japan". Car and Driver. Retrieved 6 March 2021.
In July 2016, the US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) opened a formal investigation into the fatal accident while the Autopilot was engaged. The NTSB is an investigative body that has the power to make only policy recommendations. An agency spokesman said "It's worth taking a look and seeing what we can learn from that event, so that as that automation is more widely introduced we can do it in the safest way possible."[229] In January 2017, the NTSB released the report that concluded Tesla was not at fault; the investigation revealed that for Tesla cars, the crash rate dropped by 40 percent after Autopilot was installed.[230]
^ "'Phantom Auto' will tour city". The Milwaukee Sentinel. 8 December 1926. Retrieved 23 July 2013.[permanent dead link]
David Zipper (8 December 2022). "Self-Driving Taxis Are Causing All Kinds of Trouble in San Francisco". Slate. Retrieved 9 December 2022.
A First Drive. 27 May 2014. Archived from the original on 30 October 2021 – via YouTube.
"Autonomous cars: Bring 'em on, drivers say in Insurance.com survey"
In Europe, the words automated and autonomous might be used together. For instance, Regulation (EU) 2019/2144 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on type-approval requirements for motor vehicles (...) defines "automated vehicle" and "fully automated vehicle" based on their autonomous capacity:[67]
"Why driver monitoring will be critical to next-generation autonomous vehicles"
SAE International (30 April 2021). "Taxonomy and Definitions for Terms Related to Driving Automation Systems for On-Road Motor Vehicles (SAE J3016)". Archived from the original on 20 December 2021. Retrieved 25 December 2021.
A classification system with six levels – ranging from fully manual to fully automated systems – was published in 2014 by standardization body SAE International as J3016, Taxonomy and Definitions for Terms Related to On-Road Motor Vehicle Automated Driving Systems; the details are revised periodically.[13] This classification is based on the amount of driver intervention and attentiveness required, rather than the vehicle's capabilities, although these are loosely related. In the United States in 2013, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) had released its original formal classification system. After SAE updated its classification in 2016, called J3016_201609,[77] NHTSA adopted the SAE standard,[78] and SAE classification became widely accepted.[79] The SAE standard plays a major role but it has certain limitations.[80][81]
Modern vehicles provide features such as keeping the car within its lane, speed controls, or emergency braking. Those features alone are just considered as driver assistance technologies because they still require a human driver control while fully automated vehicles drive themselves without human driver input.
Cavoli, Clemence; Phillips, Brian (2017). Tom Cohen. "Social and behavioural questions associated with Automated Vehicles A Literature Review" (PDF). UCL Transport Institute.
"Video Shows Moments Before Uber Robot Car Rammed into Pedestrian"
^ "This Is Big: A Robo-Car Just Drove Across the Country". WIRED. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
In 2021, NTSB Chair called on Tesla to change the design of its Autopilot to ensure it cannot be misused by drivers, according to a letter sent to the company's CEO.[217]
^ "Traffic Jam Chauffeur: Autonomous driving in traffic jams". 28 August 2016.
PC Magazine defines a self-driving car as "a computer-controlled car that drives itself".[71] The Union of Concerned Scientists states that self-driving cars are "cars or trucks in which human drivers are never required to take control to safely operate the vehicle. Also known as autonomous or "driver-less" cars, they combine sensors and software to control, navigate, and drive the vehicle."[72]
^ Graham Hope (29 May 2022). "GM's Cruise Autonomous Car Blocks Fire Truck on Emergency Call". IoT World Today. Retrieved 30 May 2022.
^ Zhao, Jianfeng; Liang, Bodong; Chen, Qiuxia (2 January 2018). "The key technology toward the self-driving car". International Journal of Intelligent Unmanned Systems. 6 (1): 2–20. doi:10.1108/IJIUS-08-2017-0008. ISSN 2049-6427.
"Human Driver Could Have Avoided Fatal Uber Crash, Experts Say"
^ Hallerbach, Sven; Xia, Yiqun; Eberle, Ulrich; Koester, Frank (3 April 2018). "Simulation-based Identification of Critical Scenarios for Cooperative and Automated Vehicles". Toolchain for simulation-based development and testing of Automated Driving. SAE World Congress 2018. SAE Technical Paper Series. Vol. 1. pp. 93–106. doi:10.4271/2018-01-1066. Retrieved 22 December 2018.
"What's big, orange and covered in LEDs? This start-up's new approach to self-driving cars"
Adhikari, Richard (11 February 2016). "Feds Put AI in the Driver's Seat". Technewsworld. Retrieved 12 February 2016.
^ "Ocado in self-driving vans push with £10m stake in Oxbotica". BBC News. 16 April 2021. Retrieved 14 May 2022.
Autonomous vehicles have software systems that drive the vehicle, meaning that updates through reprogramming or editing the software can enhance the benefits of the owner (e.g. update in better distinguishing blind person vs. non-blind person so that the vehicle will take extra caution when approaching a blind person). A characteristic of this re-programmable part of autonomous vehicles is that the updates need not only to come from the supplier, because through machine learning, smart autonomous vehicles can generate certain updates and install them accordingly (e.g. new navigation maps or new intersection computer systems). These reprogrammable characteristics of the digital technology and the possibility of smart machine learning give manufacturers of autonomous vehicles the opportunity to differentiate themselves on software.
^ Aaron Brown (29 July 2016). "Mercedes-Benz to Stop Running "Self-Driving Car" Ads". The Drive. Retrieved 15 April 2022.
^ "Human Factors behind Autonomous Vehicles". Robson Forensic. 25 April 2018. Retrieved 17 April 2022.
The final layer of the model is the contents layer. This layer contains the sounds, images and videos. The autonomous vehicles store, extract and use to act upon and improve their driving and understanding of the environment. The contents layer also provides metadata and directory information about the content's origin, ownership, copyright, encoding methods, content tags, Geo-time stamps, and so on (Yoo et al., 2010).
"Toyota sneak previews self-drive car ahead of tech show". BBC News. 4 January 2013. Retrieved 4 January 2013.
Crowe, Steve (3 April 2015). "Back to the Future: Autonomous Driving in 1995 – Robotics Trends". roboticstrends.com. Retrieved 2 March 2017.
In early 2023, Mercedes-Benz got authorized its Level 3 Drive Pilot in Nevada [283] and plans to submit in California for approval by mid-2023.[284] Drive Pilot is planned to will be available in the US market as an option for some models in the second half of 2023.
^ "Frequency of Target Crashes for IntelliDrive Safety Systems" (PDF). NHTSA. October 2010. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 April 2021. Retrieved 27 April 2022.
^ "Human Driver Could Have Avoided Fatal Uber Crash, Experts Say". Bloomberg.com. 22 March 2018.
^ "'Inadequate Safety Culture' Contributed to Uber Automated Test Vehicle Crash – NTSB Calls for Federal Review Process for Automated Vehicle Testing on Public Roads". ntsb.gov. Retrieved 24 October 2022.
Level 3 ("eyes off"): The driver can safely turn their attention away from the driving tasks, e.g. the driver can text or watch a film. The vehicle will handle situations that call for an immediate response, like emergency braking. The driver must still be prepared to intervene within some limited time, specified by the manufacturer, when called upon by the vehicle to do so. This level of automation can be thought of as a co-driver or co-pilot that's ready to alert the driver in an orderly fashion when swapping their turn to drive. An example would be a Traffic Jam Chauffeur[85] (a car satisfying the international Automated Lane Keeping Systems (ALKS) regulations).[86]
Shalev-Shwartz, Shai; Shammah, Shaked; Shashua, Amnon (2017). "On a Formal Model of Safe and Scalable Self-driving Cars". arXiv:1708.06374 [cs.RO].
In April 2022, it is reported that Cruise's testing vehicle blocked fire engine on emergency call, and sparked questions about an autonomous vehicle's ability to handle unexpected roadway issues.[213][214]
Abuelsamid, Sam. "Adding Some Statistical Perspective To Tesla Autopilot Safety Claims". Forbes.
Validation challenge of Automated Driving and need for novel simulation-based approaches comprising digital twins and agent-based traffic simulation.[134]
Alexander Hevelke; Julian Nida-Rümelin (2015). "Responsibility for Crashes of Autonomous Vehicles: An Ethical Analysis". Sci Eng Ethics. 21 (3): 619–630. doi:10.1007/s11948-014-9565-5. PMC 4430591. PMID 25027859.
In January 2023, Holon, the new brand from the Benteler Group, unvield its self-driving shuttle autonomous during the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) 2023 in Las Vegas. The company claims the vehicle is the world's first Level 4 shuttle built to automotive standard. Production of the Holon mover is scheduled to start in the US at the end of 2025.[297]
Rita Liao (14 December 2021). "California suspends Pony.ai driverless test permit after crash". TechCrunch. Retrieved 23 April 2022.
Smith, Aaron; Anderson, Monica (4 October 2017). "Automation in Everyday Life".
"eve autonomy launches Japan's first unmanned transportation service using autonomous EV"
"Uber self-driving cars allowed back on California roads". BBC News. 5 February 2020. Retrieved 24 October 2022.
"Mcity testing center". University of Michigan. 8 December 2016. Archived from the original on 16 February 2017. Retrieved 13 February 2017.
^ "Preparing the UK's motorways for self-driving vehicles: New £1m research project announced in partnership with Highways England". Loughborough University. Retrieved 13 April 2021.
Gehrig, Stefan K.; Stein, Fridtjof J. (1999). Dead reckoning and cartography using stereo vision for an automated car. IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems. Vol. 3. Kyongju. pp. 1507–1512. doi:10.1109/IROS.1999.811692. ISBN 0-7803-5184-3.
"Automated Driving – Levels of Driving Automation are Defined in New SAE International Standard J3016"
"Waymo's driverless car: ghost-riding in the back seat of a robot"
^ a b SAE International (30 April 2021). "Taxonomy and Definitions for Terms Related to Driving Automation Systems for On-Road Motor Vehicles (SAE J3016)". Archived from the original on 20 December 2021. Retrieved 25 December 2021.
"Nissan car drives and parks itself at Ceatec". BBC News. 4 October 2012. Retrieved 4 January 2013.
^ Yvkoff, Liane (27 April 2012). "Many car buyers show interest in autonomous car tech". CNET. Retrieved 30 June 2013.
Deepshikha Shukla (16 August 2019). "Design Considerations For Autonomous Vehicles". Retrieved 18 April 2018.
^ Gary E. Marchant; Rachel A. Lindor (17 December 2012). "The Coming Collision Between Autonomous Vehicles and the Liability System". Santa Clara Law Review. 52 (4): 1321.
^ "Glossary – Level Five Jobs". levelfivejobs.com. 27 July 2018. Archived from the original on 3 August 2018. Retrieved 3 August 2018.
^ Davies, Alex (13 December 2016). "Meet the Blind Man Who Convinced Google Its Self-Driving Car Is Finally Ready". Wired.
^ "Uber's self-driving operator charged over fatal crash". BBC News. 16 September 2020.
^ "Passenger bus teaches Google robot car a lesson". Los Angeles Times. 29 February 2016.
In March 2018, Elaine Herzberg died after being hit by a self-driving car being tested by Uber's Advanced Technologies Group (ATG) in the US state of Arizona. There was a safety driver in the car. Herzberg was crossing the road about 400 feet from an intersection.[241] This marks the first time an individual is known to have been killed by an autonomous vehicle, and the incident raised questions about regulation of the self-driving car industry.[242] Some experts said a human driver could have avoided the fatal crash.[243] Arizona governor Doug Ducey suspended the company's ability to test and operate its automated cars on public roadways citing an "unquestionable failure" of the expectation that Uber make public safety its top priority.[244] Uber then stopped self-driving tests in California until it was issued a new permit in 2020.[245][246]
Between manually driven vehicles (SAE Level 0) and fully autonomous vehicles (SAE Level 5), there are a variety of vehicle types that can be described to have some degree of automation. These are collectively known as semi-automated vehicles. As it could be a while before the technology and infrastructure are developed for full automation, it is likely that vehicles will have increasing levels of automation. These semi-automated vehicles could potentially harness many of the advantages of fully automated vehicles, while still keeping the driver in charge of the vehicle.[271]
^ Parkin, John; Clark, Benjamin; Clayton, William; Ricci, Miriam; Parkhurst, Graham (27 October 2017). "Autonomous vehicle interactions in the urban street environment: a research agenda". Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers – Municipal Engineer. 171 (1): 15–25. doi:10.1680/jmuen.16.00062. ISSN 0965-0903.
"Four Chinese Nationals Working with the Ministry of State Security Charged with Global Computer Intrusion Campaign Targeting Intellectual Property and Confidential Business Information, Including Infectious Disease Research"
Gridlock: Why We're Stuck in Traffic and What To Do About It
^ "Majority of world's population feel self-driving cars are unsafe". Lloyd's Register Foundation. 25 November 2022. Retrieved 4 December 2022.
^ "Four Chinese Nationals Working with the Ministry of State Security Charged with Global Computer Intrusion Campaign Targeting Intellectual Property and Confidential Business Information, Including Infectious Disease Research". DOJ, US. 19 July 2021. Retrieved 14 June 2022.
^ "Carnegie Mellon". Navlab: The Carnegie Mellon University Navigation Laboratory. The Robotics Institute. Retrieved 20 December 2014.
Several classifications have been proposed to deal with the broad range of technological discussions pertaining to self-driving cars. One such proposal is to classify based on the following categories; car navigation, path planning, environment perception and car control.[91] In the 2020s, it became apparent that these technologies are far more complex than initially thought.[92][93] Even video games have been used as a platform to test autonomous vehicles.[94]
Level 4 ("mind off"): As level 3, but no driver attention is ever required for safety, e.g. the driver may safely go to sleep or leave the driver's seat. However, self-driving is supported only in limited spatial areas (geofenced) or under special circumstances. Outside of these areas or circumstances, the vehicle must be able to safely abort the trip, e.g. slow down and park the car, if the driver does not retake control. An example would be a robotic taxi or a robotic delivery service that covers selected locations in an area, at a specific time and quantities. Automated valet parking is another example.
"2020 Autonomous Vehicle Technology Report". Wevolver. 20 February 2020. Retrieved 11 April 2022.
Path planningPath planning is a computational problem to find a sequence of valid configurations that moves the object from the source to destination. Self-driving cars rely on path planning technology in order to follow the rules of traffic and prevent accidents from occurring. The large scale path of the vehicle can be determined by using a voronoi diagram, an occupancy grid mapping, or with a driving corridors algorithm.[102] A driving corridors algorithm allows the vehicle to locate and drive within open free space that is bounded by lanes or barriers. While these algorithms work in a simple situation, path planning has not been proven to be effective in a complex scenario. Two techniques used for path planning are graph-based search and variational-based optimization techniques. Graph-based techniques can make harder decisions such as how to pass another vehicle/obstacle. Variational-based optimization techniques require a higher level of planning in setting restrictions on the vehicle's driving corridor to prevent collisions.[103]
Hohenberger, C.; Spörrle, M.; Welpe, I. M. (2016). "How and why do men and women differ in their willingness to use automated cars? The influence of emotions across different age groups". Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice. 94: 374–385. doi:10.1016/j.tra.2016.09.022.
^ "BOSCH – STUTTGART AIRPORT SET TO WELCOME FULLY AUTOMATED AND DRIVERLESS PARKING". IoT Automotive News. Retrieved 21 May 2022.
"Uber's self-driving operator charged over fatal crash". BBC News. 16 September 2020.
"Believing too much in the words "automatic driving", the CEO of a Chinese startup company crashed into a construction vehicle in self-driving mode and died | T客邦". News Directory 3. 20 August 2021. Retrieved 17 February 2022.
In a 2011 online survey of 2,006 US and UK consumers by Accenture, 49% said they would be comfortable using a "driverless car".[258]
^ "Uber back-up driver faulted in fatal autonomous car crash". Financial Times. 19 November 2019. Retrieved 24 October 2022.
Hawkins, Andrew J. (8 October 2020). "Waymo will allow more people to ride in its fully driverless vehicles in Phoenix". The Verge. Retrieved 5 March 2021.
Bergen, Mark (27 October 2015). "Meet the Companies Building Self-Driving Cars for Google and Tesla (And Maybe Apple)". re/code.
^ "Autonomous Cars Found Trustworthy in Global Study". autosphere.ca. 22 May 2013. Retrieved 6 September 2013.
"Honda to develop advanced level 3 self-driving technology by 2029". Reuters. 1 December 2022. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
^ a b c d e f g Jean-François Bonnefon; Azim Shariff; Iyad Rahwan (2016). "The Social Dilemma of Autonomous Vehicles". Science. 352 (6293): 1573–6. arXiv:1510.03346. Bibcode:2016Sci...352.1573B. doi:10.1126/science.aaf2654. PMID 27339987. S2CID 35400794.
^ a b Alexander Hevelke; Julian Nida-Rümelin (2015). "Responsibility for Crashes of Autonomous Vehicles: An Ethical Analysis". Sci Eng Ethics. 21 (3): 619–630. doi:10.1007/s11948-014-9565-5. PMC 4430591. PMID 25027859.
^ David Zipper (8 December 2022). "Self-Driving Taxis Are Causing All Kinds of Trouble in San Francisco". Slate. Retrieved 9 December 2022.
In 2017, BMW had been trying to make 7 Series as an automated car in public urban motorways of the United States, Germany and Israel before commercializing them in 2021.[274] Although it was not realized, BMW is still preparing 7 Series to become the next manufacturer to reach Level 3 in the second half of 2022.[275][276]
^ "Autonomous Vehicles Join the List of US National Security Threats". Wired. 21 November 2022. Retrieved 22 November 2022.
Driver monitoring system is a vehicle safety system to assess the driver's alertness and warn the driver if needed. It is recognized in developer side that the role of the systems will increase as SAE Level 2 systems become more common-place, and becomes more challenging at Level 3 and above to predict the driver's readiness for handover.[104]
11Anticipated launch											Toggle Anticipated launch subsection																					11.1Anticipated Level 2																											11.2Anticipated Level 3																											11.3Anticipated Level 4
Hancocks, Simon (26 October 2020). "The ABI and Thatcham warn against automated driving plans". Visordown.
"New Allstate Survey Shows Americans Think They Are Great Drivers – Habits Tell a Different Story"
3Classifications											Toggle Classifications subsection																					3.1Self-driving car																											3.2SAE classification																											3.3Levels of driving automation																											3.4Criticism of SAE
Graham Hope (26 April 2022). "Nissan Tests Collision Avoidance Tech for Self-Driving Cars". IoT World Today. Retrieved 15 December 2022.
"(GRVA) New Assessment/Test Method for Automated Driving (NATM) – Master Document"
Another British definition assumes: "Self-driving vehicles are vehicles that can safely and lawfully drive themselves."[74]
"Hackers find ways to hijack car computers and take control". Financial Post. 3 September 2013. Retrieved 7 September 2013.
Himmelreich, Johannes (17 May 2018). "Never Mind the Trolley: The Ethics of Autonomous Vehicles in Mundane Situations". Ethical Theory and Moral Practice. 21 (3): 669–684. doi:10.1007/s10677-018-9896-4. ISSN 1386-2820. S2CID 150184601.
^ "European Roadmap Smart Systems for Automated Driving" (PDF). EPoSS. 2015. Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 February 2015.
"Fatal Tesla Autopilot accident investigation ends with no recall ordered"
A car's computer could potentially be compromised, as could a communication system between cars.[126][127][128][129][130]
"Glossary – Level Five Jobs". levelfivejobs.com. 27 July 2018. Archived from the original on 3 August 2018. Retrieved 3 August 2018.
"China's first accidental death due to Tesla's automatic driving: not hitting the front bumper". China State Media (in Chinese). 14 September 2016. Retrieved 18 March 2018.
"Toyota self-driving buses in Paralympic village to restart on Aug. 31". Kyodo News. 30 August 2021. Retrieved 17 November 2021.
^ "From the Final Event Week: On Motorways". L3Pilot. 13 October 2021. Retrieved 27 April 2022.
From 2016 to 2018, the European Commission funded an innovation strategy development for connected and automated driving through the Coordination Actions CARTRE and SCOUT.[46] Moreover, the Strategic Transport Research and Innovation Agenda (STRIA) Roadmap for Connected and Automated Transport was published in 2019.[47]
As of December 2022[update], vehicles operating at Level 3 and above were an insignificant market factor. In December 2020, Waymo became the first service provider to offer driver-less taxi rides to the general public, in a part of Phoenix, Arizona. In March 2021, Honda was the first manufacturer to sell a legally approved Level 3 car.[14][15][16] Nuro began autonomous commercial delivery operations in California in 2021.[17] In December 2021, Mercedes-Benz received approval for a Level 3 car.[18] In February 2022, Cruise became the second service provider to offer driver-less taxi rides to the general public, in San Francisco.[19]
"Mercedes-Benz Drive Pilot certified for use in Nevada – first L3 system approved for US highways". 27 January 2023.
Paul Myles (17 September 2021). "Stellantis Shows Off its Level 3 Technology". Informa. Retrieved 29 November 2021.
"Honda to Start Testing Program in September Toward Launch of Autonomous Vehicle Mobility Service Business in Japan" (Press release). Honda. 8 September 2021. Retrieved 16 March 2022.
^ Thrun, Sebastian (2010). "Toward Robotic Cars". Communications of the ACM. 53 (4): 99–106. doi:10.1145/1721654.1721679. S2CID 207177792.
Felton, Ryan (27 February 2018). "Two Years On, A Father Is Still Fighting Tesla Over Autopilot And His Son's Fatal Crash". jalopnik.com. Retrieved 18 March 2018.
^ Jack, Boeglin (1 January 2015). "The Costs of Self-Driving Cars: Reconciling Freedom and Privacy with Tort Liability in Autonomous Vehicle Regulation". Yale Journal of Law and Technology. 17 (1).
Charles McLellan (4 November 2019). "What is V2X communication? Creating connectivity for the autonomous car era". ZDNet. Retrieved 8 May 2022.
5Challenges											Toggle Challenges subsection																					5.1Obstacles																											5.2Concerns																											5.3Human factors																											5.4Moral issues
^ Hall-Geisler, Kristen (22 December 2016). "Autonomous cars seen as smarter than human drivers". TechCrunch. Retrieved 26 December 2016.
Novak, Matt. "The National Automated Highway System That Almost Was". Smithsonian. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
^ Vanderblit, Tom (6 February 2012). "Autonomous Cars Through The Ages". Wired. Retrieved 26 July 2018.
^ "メルセデス・ベンツ日本に措置命令 事実と異なる記載 消費者庁" [Administrative order to Mercedes-Benz Japan Co., Ltd. for the descriptions that are different from the fact – The Consumer Affairs Agency]. NHK, Japan (in Japanese). 10 December 2021. Retrieved 13 April 2022.
^ Hancocks, Simon (26 October 2020). "The ABI and Thatcham warn against automated driving plans". Visordown.
EmploymentCompanies working on the technology have an increasing recruitment problem in that the available talent pool has not grown with demand.[142] As such, education and training by third-party organizations such as providers of online courses and self-taught community-driven projects such as DIY Robocars[143] and Formula Pi have quickly grown in popularity, while university level extra-curricular programmed such as Formula Student Driver-less[144] have bolstered graduate experience. Industry is steadily increasing freely available information sources, such as code,[145] datasets[146] and glossaries[147] to widen the recruitment pool.
^ "Nissan car drives and parks itself at Ceatec". BBC News. 4 October 2012. Retrieved 4 January 2013.
Yvkoff, Liane (27 April 2012). "Many car buyers show interest in autonomous car tech". CNET. Retrieved 30 June 2013.
SensingTo reliably and safely operate an autonomous vehicle, usually a mixture of sensors is utilized.[93]Typical sensors include lidar (Light Detection and Ranging), stereo vision, GPS and IMU.[95][96]Modern self-driving cars generally use Bayesian simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithms,which fuse data from multiple sensors and an off-line map into current location estimates and map updates.[97] Waymo has developed a variant of SLAM with detection and tracking of other moving objects (DATMO), which also handles obstacles such as cars and pedestrians. Simpler systems may use roadside real-time locating system (RTLS) technologies to aid localization.
"Self-driving bus involved in crash less than two hours after Las Vegas launch"
^ Huval, Brody; Wang, Tao; Tandon, Sameep; Kiske, Jeff; Song, Will; Pazhayampallil, Joel (2015). "An Empirical Evaluation of Deep Learning on Highway Driving". arXiv:1504.01716 [cs.RO].
^ Horwitz, Josh; Timmons, Heather (20 September 2016). "There are some scary similarities between Tesla's deadly crashes linked to Autopilot". Quartz. Retrieved 19 March 2018.
Rationale for liabilityThere are different opinions on who should be held liable in case of a crash, especially with people being hurt.[166] One study suggests requesting the owners of self-driving cars to sign end-user license agreements (EULAs), assigning to them accountability for any accidents.[167] Other studies suggest introducing a tax or insurances that would protect owners and users of automated vehicles of claims made by victims of an accident.[166] Other possible parties that can be held responsible in case of a technical failure include software engineers that programmed the code for the automated operation of the vehicles, and suppliers of components of the AV.[168]
^ Novak, Matt. "The National Automated Highway System That Almost Was". Smithsonian. Retrieved 8 June 2018.
^ Hawkins, Andrew J. (13 May 2018). "MIT built a self-driving car that can navigate unmapped country roads". The Verge. Retrieved 14 May 2018.
Said, Carolyn (27 March 2018). "Uber puts the brakes on testing robot cars in California after Arizona fatality". San Francisco Chronicle. Retrieved 8 April 2018.
"On the future of transportation in an era of automated and autonomous vehicles"
^ "Automotive luxury experienced in a completely new way – The main points of the new Mercedes-Benz S-Class at a glance". Mercedes me media. 2 September 2020. Retrieved 21 May 2022.
Steckhan, Lorenz; Spiessl, Wolfgang; Quetschlich, Nils; Bengler, Klaus (2022),Krömker, Heidi (ed.), "Beyond SAE J3016: New Design Spaces for Human-Centered Driving Automation", HCI in Mobility, Transport, and Automotive Systems, Cham: Springer International Publishing, vol. 13335, pp. 416–434, doi:10.1007/978-3-031-04987-3_28, ISBN 978-3-031-04986-6, retrieved 24 January 2023
^ Hancock, P. A.; Nourbakhsh, Illah; Stewart, Jack (16 April 2019). "On the future of transportation in an era of automated and autonomous vehicles". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 116 (16): 7684–7691. Bibcode:2019PNAS..116.7684H. doi:10.1073/pnas.1805770115. ISSN 0027-8424. PMC 6475395. PMID 30642956.
According to Fortune, some newer vehicles' technology names—such as AutonoDrive, PilotAssist, Full-Self Driving or DrivePilot—might confuse the driver, who may believe no driver input is expected when in fact the driver needs to remain involved in the driving task.[59] According to the BBC, confusion between those concepts leads to deaths.[60]
"Ocado in self-driving vans push with £10m stake in Oxbotica"
"Pony.ai loses permit to test autonomous vehicles with driver in California"
"Preparing the UK's motorways for self-driving vehicles: New £1m research project announced in partnership with Highways England". Loughborough University. Retrieved 13 April 2021.
^ a b Schmidhuber, Jürgen (2009). "Prof. Schmidhuber's highlights of robot car history". Retrieved 15 July 2011.
"U.S. Senate Democrats urge Buttigieg to develop autonomous vehicle rules"
In 2020, a National Transportation Safety Board chairman stated that no self-driving cars (SAE level 3+) were available for consumers to purchase in the US in 2020:
"Simulation-based Identification of Critical Scenarios for Cooperative and Automated Vehicles"
^ "L3Pilot: Joint European effort boosts automated driving". Connected Automated Driving. 15 October 2021. Retrieved 9 November 2021.
"5 confounding questions that hold the key to the future of driverless cars"
"Early rider program – FAQ – Early Rider Program – Waymo". Waymo. Retrieved 30 November 2018.
^ Negroponte, Nicholas (1 January 2000). Being digital. Vintage Books. ISBN 978-0679762904. OCLC 68020226.
^ "Vislab, University of Parma, Italy – 8000 miles driverless test begins". Archived from the original on 14 November 2013. Retrieved 27 October 2013.
^ "Nissan's Path to Self-Driving Cars? Humans in Call Centers". Wired.
"BOSCH – STUTTGART AIRPORT SET TO WELCOME FULLY AUTOMATED AND DRIVERLESS PARKING"
Rebecca Bellan (10 February 2022). "Despite a drop in how many companies are testing autonomous driving on California roads, miles driven are way up". TechCrunch. Retrieved 25 April 2022.
"SIP自動運転の成果を活用した安全性評価用シミュレーションソフトの製品化～戦略的イノベーション創造プログラム（SIP）研究成果を社会実装へ～" [Commercial product of the achievement of SIP-adus: Driving Intelligence Validation Platform]. Cabinet Office, Japan. 6 September 2022. Retrieved 10 September 2022.
"Human Driver Could Have Avoided Fatal Uber Crash, Experts Say". Bloomberg.com. 22 March 2018.
"New driver-assistance technology dramatically improves collision-avoidance performance". Nissan. Retrieved 15 December 2022.
Davies, Alex (13 December 2016). "Meet the Blind Man Who Convinced Google Its Self-Driving Car Is Finally Ready". Wired.
Selyukh, Alina (29 June 2016). "A 24-Year-Old Designed A Self-Driving Minibus; Maker Built It in Weeks". NPR. Retrieved 21 July 2016.
Hu, J.; Bhowmick, P.; Jang, I.;Arvin, F.; Lanzon, A., "A Decentralized Cluster Formation Containment Framework for Multirobot Systems" IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2021.
^ "VisLab Intercontinental Autonomous Challenge: Inaugural Ceremony – Milan, Italy". Archived from the original on 24 February 2021. Retrieved 27 October 2013.
In November 2022, Toyota gave a demonstration of one of its GR Yaris test car equipped with AI, which had been trained on the skills and knowledge of professional rally drivers to enhance the safety of self-driving cars.[215] Toyota has been using the learnings from the collaborative activities with Microsoft in FIA World Rally Championship since 2017 season.[216]
"California DMV accuses Tesla of deceptive marketing for its self-driving tech". CBT Automotive Network. 9 August 2022. Retrieved 22 November 2022.
Macdonald, Iain David Graham (2011). A Simulated Autonomous Car (PDF) (thesis). The University of Edinburgh. Retrieved 17 April 2013.
Path to Autonomy: Self-Driving Car Levels 0 to 5 Explained – Car and Driver, October 2017
"Honda Signs Memorandum of Understanding with Teito Motor Transportation and kokusai motorcars as Part of Aim to Launch Autonomous Vehicle Mobility Service in Central Tokyo"
"Audi of America / news / Pool / Reaffirmed Mission for Autonomous Audi TTS Pikes Peak"
^ Vijayenthiran, Viknesh (2 February 2022). "Cruise opens up driverless taxi service to public in San Francisco". Motor Authority. Retrieved 27 March 2022.
"Meet the Blind Man Who Convinced Google Its Self-Driving Car Is Finally Ready"
^ "Mercedes-Benz self-driving car technology approved for use". Feet News. 9 December 2021. Archived from the original on 9 December 2021. Retrieved 10 December 2021.
Boudette, Neal E. (23 March 2021). "Tesla's Autopilot Technology Faces Fresh Scrutiny". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 28 December 2021. Retrieved 15 June 2021.
"Sensor and Sensor Fusion Technology in Autonomous Vehicles: A Review"
^ Hasuo, Ichiro; Eberhart, Clovis; Haydon, James; Dubut, Jérémy; Bohrer, Brandon; Kobayashi, Tsutomu; Pruekprasert, Sasinee; Zhang, Xiao-Yi; Andre Pallas, Erik; Yamada, Akihisa; Suenaga, Kohei; Ishikawa, Fuyuki; Kamijo, Kenji; Shinya, Yoshiyuki; Suetomi, Takamasa (5 July 2022). "Goal-Aware RSS for Complex Scenarios Via Program Logic". IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles: 1–33. arXiv:2207.02387. doi:10.1109/TIV.2022.3169762. S2CID 250311612.
^ "A Tragic Loss" (Press release). Tesla Motors. 30 June 2016. Retrieved 1 July 2016. This is the first known fatality in just over 130 million miles where Autopilot was activated. Among all vehicles in the US, there is a fatality every 94 million miles. Worldwide, there is a fatality approximately every 60 million miles.
In February 2022, General Motors and Cruise have petitioned NHTSA for permission to build and deploy a self-driving vehicle, the Cruise Origin, which is without human controls like steering wheels or brake pedals. The car was developed with GM and Cruise investor Honda, and its production is expected to begin in late 2022 in Detroit at GM's Factory Zero.[292][293]As of April 2022[update], the petition is pending.[294]
^ "Mercedes DRIVE PILOT: Level 3 luxury, coming soon to US". 22 July 2022.
"From the Final Event Week: On Motorways". L3Pilot. 13 October 2021. Retrieved 27 April 2022.
Ross, Philip E. (11 April 2014). "A Cloud-Connected Car Is a Hackable Car, Worries Microsoft". IEEE Spectrum. Retrieved 23 April 2014.
"UN Regulation No. 156 – Software update and software update management system"
^ Meyer, Gereon (2018). European Roadmaps, Programs, and Projects for Innovation in Connected and Automated Road Transport. In: G. Meyer, S. Beiker, Road Vehicle Automation 5. Springer 2018. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-94896-6_3. S2CID 169808153.
Newbold, Richard (17 June 2015). "The driving forces behind what would be the next revolution in the haulage sector". The Loadstar. Retrieved 22 July 2016.
Vanderblit, Tom (6 February 2012). "Autonomous Cars Through The Ages". Wired. Retrieved 26 July 2018.
"Apply for an Autonomous Vehicle Technology Demonstration / Testing Permit". 9 May 2017.
^ "Große Akzeptanz für selbstfahrende Autos in Deutschland". motorvision.de. 9 October 2012. Archived from the original on 15 May 2016. Retrieved 6 September 2013.
Alain Dunoyer (27 January 2022). "Why driver monitoring will be critical to next-generation autonomous vehicles". SBD Automotive. Retrieved 13 May 2022.
David Shepardson (26 April 2022). "U.S. Senate Democrats urge Buttigieg to develop autonomous vehicle rules". Reuters. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
"Back to the Future: Autonomous Driving in 1995 – Robotics Business Review"
Matzliach, Barouch (2022). "Detection of Static and Mobile Targets by an Autonomous Agent with Deep Q-Learning Abilities" (PDF). Entropy. Entropy, 2022, 24, 1168. 24 (8): 1168. Bibcode:2022Entrp..24.1168M. doi:10.3390/e24081168. PMC 9407070. PMID 36010832.
"Polestar 3 with Level 3 Autonomous Tech on the Way"
Ramsey, John (1 June 2015). "Self-driving cars to be tested on Virginia highways". Richmond Times-Dispatch. Retrieved 4 June 2015.
^ "China's first accidental death due to Tesla's automatic driving: not hitting the front bumper". China State Media (in Chinese). 14 September 2016. Retrieved 18 March 2018.
Kassai, Evelyne (17 June 2020). "Scope of Using Autonomous Trucks and Lorries for Parcel Deliveries in Urban Settings". Logistics. mdpi. 4 (3): 17. doi:10.3390/logistics4030017.
Robotaxi is an application of self-driving car which is supposed to be operated by taxi company or ridesharing company. Through the massive investments by Big Tech companies in the mid-2010s, research and development of robotaxi became active in the U.S.[176]
"自動運転車両「クルーズ・オリジン」の試作車が完成、米国でテストを開始" [Prototype of self-driving car "Cruise Origin" completed, started testing in the United States]. Honda (in Japanese). 29 September 2022. Retrieved 25 November 2022.
Tesla vehicles are equipped with hardware that Tesla claims will allow full self driving in the future. In October 2020 Tesla released a "beta" version of its "Full Self-Driving" software to a small group of testers in the United States;[272] however, this "Full Self-Driving" corresponds to level 2 autonomy.[273]
^ "California DMV accuses Tesla of deceptive marketing for its self-driving tech". CBT Automotive Network. 9 August 2022. Retrieved 22 November 2022.
^ Skulmowski, Alexander; Bunge, Andreas; Kaspar, Kai; Pipa, Gordon (16 December 2014). "Forced-choice decision-making in modified trolley dilemma situations: a virtual reality and eye tracking study". Frontiers in Behavioral Neuroscience. 8: 426. doi:10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00426. PMC 4267265. PMID 25565997.
Proceedings of the 1986 ACM fourteenth annual conference on Computer science – CSC '86
^ Michael Taylor; Carly Schaffner (4 November 2021). "BMW 7 Series To Reach Level 3 Autonomy Next Year". Forbes Wheels. Retrieved 22 November 2021.
Parkin, John; Clark, Benjamin; Clayton, William; Ricci, Miriam; Parkhurst, Graham (27 October 2017). "Autonomous vehicle interactions in the urban street environment: a research agenda". Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers – Municipal Engineer. 171 (1): 15–25. doi:10.1680/jmuen.16.00062. ISSN 0965-0903.
^ Rita Liao (14 December 2021). "California suspends Pony.ai driverless test permit after crash". TechCrunch. Retrieved 23 April 2022.
^ a b Beresford, Colin (4 March 2021). "Honda Legend Sedan with Level 3 Autonomy Available for Lease in Japan". Car and Driver. Retrieved 6 March 2021.
"Autonomous Vehicles for Smart and Sustainable Cities: An In-Depth Exploration of Privacy and Cybersecurity Implications"
"Honda Signs Memorandum of Understanding with Teito Motor Transportation and kokusai motorcars as Part of Aim to Launch Autonomous Vehicle Mobility Service in Central Tokyo" (Press release). Honda. Retrieved 21 April 2022.
In July 2016, following a fatal crash by a Tesla car operating in "Autopilot" mode, Mercedes-Benz was also slammed for a misleading commercial advertising E-Class models which had been available with "Drive Pilot".[138]At that time, Mercedes-Benz rejected the claims and stopped its "self-driving car" ad campaign which had been running in the United States.[139][140]In August 2022, the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) accused Tesla of deceptive marketingpractices.[141]
"eve autonomy launches Japan's first unmanned transportation service using autonomous EV" (Press release). eve autonomy. 1 December 2022. Retrieved 3 December 2022.
For this reason, some organizations such as the AAA try to provide standardized naming conventions for features such as ALKS which aim to have capacity to manage the driving task, but which are not yet approved to be an automated vehicles in any countries. The Association of British Insurers considers the usage of the word autonomous in marketing for modern cars to be dangerous because car ads make motorists think "autonomous" and "autopilot" mean a vehicle can drive itself when they still rely on the driver to ensure safety. Technology able to drive a car is still in its beta stage.
^ "Slow Self-Driving Car Progress Tests Investors' Patience". The Wall Street Journal. 28 November 2022. Retrieved 14 December 2022.
^ "Mercedes rejects claims about "misleading" self-driving car ads". Reuters. 25 April 2016. Retrieved 15 April 2022.
^ "Transcript: AI and AVs: Implications in U.S.-China Competition". CSIS. 27 April 2022. Retrieved 24 May 2022.
^ Corke, Peter; Lobo, Jorge; Dias, Jorge (1 June 2007). "An Introduction to Inertial and Visual Sensing". The International Journal of Robotics Research. 26 (6): 519–535. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.93.5523. doi:10.1177/0278364907079279. S2CID 206499861.
"Waymo launches nation's first commercial self-driving taxi service in Arizona"
In June 2015, Brin confirmed that 12 vehicles had suffered collisions as of that date. Eight involved rear-end collisions at a stop sign or traffic light, two in which the vehicle was side-swiped by another driver, one in which another driver rolled through a stop sign, and one where a Google employee was controlling the car manually.[237] In July 2015, three Google employees suffered minor injuries when their vehicle was rear-ended by a car whose driver failed to brake at a traffic light. This was the first time that a collision resulted in injuries.[238] On 14 February 2016 a Google vehicle attempted to avoid sandbags blocking its path. During the maneuver it struck a bus. Google stated, "In this case, we clearly bear some responsibility, because if our car hadn't moved, there wouldn't have been a collision."[239][240] Google characterized the crash as a misunderstanding and a learning experience. No injuries were reported in the crash.[236]
The testing of vehicles with varying degrees of automation can be carried out either physically, in a closed environment[185] or, where permitted, on public roads (typically requiring a license or permit,[186] or adhering to a specific set of operating principles),[187] or in a virtual environment, i.e. using computer simulations.[188][189]When driven on public roads, automated vehicles require a person to monitor their proper operation and "take over" when needed. For example, New York has strict requirements for the test driver, such that the vehicle can be corrected at all times by a licensed operator; highlighted by Cardian Cube Company's application and discussions with New York State officials and the NYS DMV.[190]
^ "Honda Unveils CI-powered Micro-mobility Technologies that Utilize Honda CI (Cooperative Intelligence), Honda's Original AI that Enables Mutual Understanding between Machines and People". Honda. 3 November 2022. Retrieved 3 November 2022.
^ "Governor Ducey suspends Uber from automated vehicle testing". KNXV-TV. Associated Press. 27 March 2018. Retrieved 27 March 2018.
"Despite a drop in how many companies are testing autonomous driving on California roads, miles driven are way up"
"Former Apple engineer accused of stealing automotive trade secrets pleads guilty"
Moving obstaclesSelf-driving cars are already exploring the difficulties of determining the intentions of pedestrians, bicyclists, and animals, and models ofbehavior must be programmed into driving algorithms.[10] Human road users also have the challenge of determining the intentions of autonomous vehicles, where there is no driver with which to make eye contact or exchange hand signals. Drive.ai is testing a solution to this problem that involves LED signs mounted on the outside of the vehicle, announcing status such as "going now, don't cross" vs. "waiting for you to cross".[159]
^ Althoff, Matthias; Sontges, Sebastian (June 2017). "Computing possible driving corridors for automated vehicles".
To enable a car to travel without any driver embedded within the vehicle, some companies use a remote driver.[70]
^ Sean O'Kane (30 January 2019). "A second Apple employee was charged with stealing self-driving car project secrets". The Verge. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
"Große Akzeptanz für selbstfahrende Autos in Deutschland". motorvision.de. 9 October 2012. Archived from the original on 15 May 2016. Retrieved 6 September 2013.
"There are some scary similarities between Tesla's deadly crashes linked to Autopilot"
"For the first time, Google's self-driving car takes some blame for a crash". The Washington Post. 29 February 2016.
^ Daily, Mike; Medasani, Swarup; Behringer, Reinhold; Trivedi, Mohan (December 2017). "Self-Driving Cars". Computer. 50 (12): 18–23. doi:10.1109/MC.2017.4451204. ISSN 1558-0814.
In October 2018, Waymo announced that its test vehicles had traveled in automated mode for over 10,000,000 miles (16,000,000 km), increasing by about 1,000,000 miles (1,600,000 kilometres) per month.[51] In December 2018, Waymo was the first to commercialize a fully autonomous taxi service in the US, in Phoenix, Arizona.[52] In October 2020, Waymo launched a geo-fenced driver-less ride hailing service in Phoenix.[53][54] The cars are being monitored in real-time by a team of remote engineers, and there are cases where the remote engineers need to intervene.[55][54]
Some driving automation systems may indeed be autonomous if they perform all of their functions independently and self-sufficiently, but if they depend on communication and/or cooperation with outside entities, they should be considered cooperative rather than autonomous.
"WG: VT/ITS/AV Decision Making". IEEE Standards Association. Retrieved 18 July 2022.
O'Toole, Randal (18 January 2010). Gridlock: Why We're Stuck in Traffic and What To Do About It. Cato Institute. ISBN 978-1-935308-24-9.
"Google founder defends accident records of self-driving cars". Los Angeles Times. Associated Press. 3 June 2015. Retrieved 1 July 2016.
Schmidhuber, Jürgen (2009). "Prof. Schmidhuber's highlights of robot car history". Retrieved 15 July 2011.
"Google's Self-Driving Cars: 300,000 Miles Logged, Not a Single Accident Under Computer Control"
The first layer of this architecture consists of the device layer. This layer consists of the following two parts: logical capability and physical machinery. The physical machinery refers to the actual vehicle itself (e.g. chassis and carrosserie). When it comes to digital technologies, the physical machinery is accompanied by a logical capability layer in the form of operating systems that helps to guide the vehicles itself and make it autonomous. The logical capability provides control over the vehicle and connects it with the other layers;
^ "Early rider program – FAQ – Early Rider Program – Waymo". Waymo. Retrieved 30 November 2018.
^ Andrew J. Hawkins (9 December 2019). "Waymo's driverless car: ghost-riding in the back seat of a robot". The Verge. Retrieved 11 April 2022.
^ a b Vlasic, Bill; Boudette, Neal E. (30 June 2016). "Self-Driving Tesla Involved in Fatal Crash". The New York Times. Retrieved 1 July 2016.
"Preparing the UK's motorways for self-driving vehicles: New £1m research project announced in partnership with Highways England"
Implications from the Trolley ProblemA moral dilemma that a software engineer or car manufacturer might face in programming the operating software of a self-driving vehicle is captured in a variation of the traditional ethical thought experiment, the trolley problem: An AV is driving with passengers when suddenly a person appears in its way and the car has to commit between one of two options, either to run the person over or to avoid hitting the person by swerving into a wall, killing the passengers.[169] Researchers have suggested, in particular, two ethical theories to be applicable to thebehavior of automated vehicles in cases of emergency: deontology and utilitarianism.[10][170] Deontological theory suggests that an automated car needs to follow strict written-out rules that it needs to follow in any situation. Utilitarianism, on the other hand, promotes maximizing the number of people surviving in a crash. Critics suggest that automated vehicles should adapt a mix of multiple theories to be able to respond morally right in the instance of a crash.[10][170] Recently, some specific ethical frameworks i.e., utilitarianism, deontology, relativism, absolutism (monism), and pluralism, are investigated empirically with respect to the acceptance of self-driving cars in unavoidable accidents.[171]
"Fatal Tesla Autopilot accident investigation ends with no recall ordered". The Verge. 19 January 2016. Retrieved 19 January 2017.
Jay Ramey (11 January 2022). "Polestar 3 with Level 3 Autonomous Tech on the Way". Autoweek. Retrieved 31 May 2022.
"The driving forces behind what would be the next revolution in the haulage sector"
Kirsten Korosec (26 October 2021). "NTSB chair calls on Elon Musk to change design of Tesla Autopilot". TechCrunch. Retrieved 12 November 2021.
^ Maki, Sydney; Sage, Alexandria (19 March 2018). "Self-driving Uber car kills Arizona woman crossing street". Reuters. Retrieved 14 April 2019.
Gary E. Marchant; Rachel A. Lindor (17 December 2012). "The Coming Collision Between Autonomous Vehicles and the Liability System". Santa Clara Law Review. 52 (4): 1321.
^ James Andrew Lewis (28 June 2021). "National Security Implications of Leadership in Autonomous Vehicles". CSIS. Retrieved 12 April 2022.
^ "Tesla Crash Investigation Yields 9 NTSB Safety Recommendations" (Press release). National Transportation Safety Board. 25 February 2020. Retrieved 28 July 2020.
"China's first accidental death due to Tesla's automatic driving: not hitting the front bumper"
^ a b Kirsten Korosec (26 October 2021). "NTSB chair calls on Elon Musk to change design of Tesla Autopilot". TechCrunch. Retrieved 12 November 2021.
Meyer, G.; Beiker, S (2014). Road vehicle automation. Springer International Publishing. pp. 93–102.
"First self-driving race car completes 1.8-kilometre track". euronews. 16 July 2018. Retrieved 17 July 2018.
"Beyond SAE J3016: New Design Spaces for Human-Centered Driving Automation"
"Honda to start selling world's 1st level-3 autonomous car for $103K on Fri"
"Social and behavioural questions associated with Automated Vehicles A Literature Review"
2Definitions											Toggle Definitions subsection																					2.1Terminology and safety considerations																											2.2Autonomous vs. automated																											2.3Autonomous versus cooperative
Level 5 ("steering wheel optional"): No human intervention is required at all. An example would be a robotic vehicle that works on all kinds of surfaces, all over the world, all year around, in all weather conditions.
^ Hewitt, Charlie; Politis, Ioannis; Amanatidis, Theocharis; Sarkar, Advait (2019). "Assessing public perception of self-driving cars: the autonomous vehicle acceptance model". Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. ACM Press: 518–527. doi:10.1145/3301275.3302268. S2CID 67773581.
It is concerned that leapfrogging ability can be applied to autonomous car technology.[156]Also, emerging Cellular V2X (Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything) technologies are based on 5G wireless networks.[157]As of November 2022[update], US Congress is applying fresh scrutiny to the possibility that imported Chinese technology could be a Trojan horse.[158]
"The Coming Collision Between Autonomous Vehicles and the Liability System"
^ "First self-driving race car completes 1.8-kilometre track". euronews. 16 July 2018. Retrieved 17 July 2018.
^ Selyukh, Alina (29 June 2016). "A 24-Year-Old Designed A Self-Driving Minibus; Maker Built It in Weeks". NPR. Retrieved 21 July 2016.
"Waymo's Self-Driving Future Looks Real Now That the Hype Is Fading". Bloomberg.com. 21 January 2021. Retrieved 5 March 2021.
^ Keith Barry. "Senators Call for Investigation of Tesla's Marketing Claims of Its Autopilot and "Full Self-Driving" Features". Consumer Reports. Retrieved 13 April 2020.
Levin, Alan; Plungis, Jeff (8 July 2016). "NTSB to scrutinize driver automation with probe of Tesla crash". Automotive News. Retrieved 11 July 2016.
"ISO 34502:2022 Road vehicles — Test scenarios for automated driving systems — Scenario based safety evaluation framework"
^ Mathur, Vishal (17 July 2015). "Google Autonomous Car Experiences Another Crash". Government Technology. Retrieved 18 July 2015.
^ David Shepardson (19 February 2021). "GM seeks U.S approval to deploy self-driving vehicles". Reuters. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Knight, Will (22 October 2013). "The Future of Self-driving Cars". MIT Technology Review. Retrieved 22 July 2016.
Autonomy in vehicles is often divided into six levels,[12] according to a system developed by SAE International (SAE J3016).[13] The SAE levels can be roughly understood as Level 0 – no automation; Level 1 – hands on/shared control; Level 2 – hands off; Level 3 – eyes off; Level 4 – mind off, and Level 5 – steering wheel optional.
^ "Google Self-Driving Car Project, Monthly Report, March 2016" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 September 2016. Retrieved 23 March 2016.
"A 24-Year-Old Designed A Self-Driving Minibus; Maker Built It in Weeks"
^ Jon Brodkin (22 February 2021). "GM seeks US approval to deploy self-driving car without a steering wheel". Ars Technica. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
Bonnefon et al. concluded that the regulation of autonomous vehicle ethical prescriptions may be counterproductive to societal safety.[172] This is because, if the government mandates utilitarian ethics and people prefer to ride in self-protective cars, it could prevent the large scale implementation of self-driving cars.[172] Delaying the adoption of autonomous cars vitiates the safety of society as a whole because this technology is projected to save so many lives.[172]
^ Turk, M.A.; Morgenthaler, D.G.; Gremban, K.D.; Marra, M. (May 1988). "VITS-a vision system for automated land vehicle navigation". IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. 10 (3): 342–361. doi:10.1109/34.3899. ISSN 0162-8828.
"Gauging investment in self-driving cars". 16 October 2017. Retrieved 21 June 2021.
Nick Gibbs (9 December 2021). "Stellantis will roll out Level 3 self-driving in 2024". Automotive News. Retrieved 25 April 2022.
"Honda testing Level 4 autonomous driving technology". NHK World. 30 October 2021. Retrieved 24 November 2021.
Weber, Marc (8 May 2014). "Where to? A History of Autonomous Vehicles". Computer History Museum. Retrieved 26 July 2018.
In British English, the word automated alone might have several meaning, such in the sentence: "Thatcham also found that the automated lane keeping systems could only meet two out of the twelve principles required to guarantee safety, going on to say they cannot, therefore, be classed as 'automated driving', instead it claims the tech should be classed as "assisted driving".":[68] The first occurrence of the "automated" word refers to an Unece automated system, while the second occurrence refers to the British legal definition of an automated vehicle. The British law interprets the meaning of "automated vehicle" based on the interpretation section related to a vehicle "driving itself" and an insured vehicle.[69]
^ Ackerman, Evan (25 January 2013). "Video Friday: Bosch and Cars, ROVs and Whales, and Kuka Arms and Chainsaws". IEEE Spectrum. Retrieved 26 February 2013.
In international standardization field, ISO/TC 22 is in charge of in-vehicle transport information and control systems,[108] and ISO/TC 204 is in charge of information, communication and control systems in the field of urban and rural surface transportation.[109] International standards have been actively developed in the domains of AD/ADAS functions, connectivity, human interaction, in-vehicle systems, management/engineering, dynamic map and positioning, privacy and security.[110]
^ "Toyota to Offer Rides in SAE Level-4 Automated Vehicles on Public Roads in Japan Next Summer" (Press release). Toyota. 24 October 2019. Retrieved 17 March 2022.
Umar Zakir Abdul, Hamid;et al. (2021). "Adopting Aviation Safety Knowledge into the Discussions of Safe Implementation of Connected and Autonomous Road Vehicles". SAE Technical Papers (SAE WCX Digital Summit) (2021–01–0074). Retrieved 12 April 2021.
^ Lassa, Todd (January 2013). "The Beginning of the End of Driving". Motor Trend. Retrieved 1 September 2014.
"Forced-choice decision-making in modified trolley dilemma situations: a virtual reality and eye tracking study"
"Support – Autopilot". Tesla. 13 February 2019. Archived from the original on 10 April 2019. Retrieved 6 September 2019.
California Department of Motor Vehicles. "The Self-Driving Car Companies Going The Distance". Statista. Archived from the original on 25 February 2019. Retrieved 21 December 2019.
^ "Support – Autopilot". Tesla. 13 February 2019. Archived from the original on 10 April 2019. Retrieved 6 September 2019.
^ Felton, Ryan (27 February 2018). "Two Years On, A Father Is Still Fighting Tesla Over Autopilot And His Son's Fatal Crash". jalopnik.com. Retrieved 18 March 2018.
On top of the device layer comes the network layer. This layer also consists of two different parts: physical transport and logical transmission. The physical transport layer refers to the radars, sensors and cables of the autonomous vehicles which enable the transmission of digital information. Next to that, the network layer of autonomous vehicles also has a logical transmission which contains communication protocols and network standard to communicate the digital information with other networks and platforms or between layers. This increases the accessibility of the autonomous vehicles and enables the computational power of a network or platform;
^ a b Lim, Hazel Si Min; Taeihagh, Araz (2018). "Autonomous Vehicles for Smart and Sustainable Cities: An In-Depth Exploration of Privacy and Cybersecurity Implications". Energies. 11 (5): 1062. arXiv:1804.10367. Bibcode:2018arXiv180410367L. doi:10.3390/en11051062. S2CID 13749987.
PrivacyPrivacy-related issues arise mainly from the interconnectivity of automated cars, making it just another mobile device that can gather any information about an individual (see data mining). This information gathering ranges from tracking of the routes taken, voice recording, video recording, preferences in media that is consumed in the car,behavioral patterns, to many more streams of information.[173][174][175] The data and communications infrastructure needed to support these vehicles may also be capable of surveillance, especially if coupled to other data sets and advanced analytics.[173]
In the 2010s, researchers openly worried about the potential of future regulation to delay deployment of automated cars on the road.[270] In 2020, international regulation in the form of UNECE WP.29 GRVA was established, regulating Level 3 automated driving. As of 2022[update], in practice, it is actually very difficult to be approved as Level 3.
Moore-Colyer, Roland (12 February 2015). "Driverless cars face cyber security, skills and safety challenges". v3.co.uk. Retrieved 24 April 2015.
"SAE Self-Driving Levels 0 to 5 for Automation – What They Mean"
^ a b Ackerman, Evan (4 March 2021). "What Full Autonomy Means for the Waymo Driver". IEEE Spectrum: Technology, Engineering, and Science News. Retrieved 8 March 2021.
Graham Hope (29 May 2022). "GM's Cruise Autonomous Car Blocks Fire Truck on Emergency Call". IoT World Today. Retrieved 30 May 2022.
Thrun, Sebastian (2010). "Toward Robotic Cars". Communications of the ACM. 53 (4): 99–106. doi:10.1145/1721654.1721679. S2CID 207177792.
In a February 2015 survey of top auto journalists, 46% predicted that either Tesla or Daimler would be the first to the market with a fully autonomous vehicle, while (at 38%) Daimler was predicted to be the most functional, safe, and in-demand autonomous vehicle.[263]In 2015, a questionnaire survey by Delft University of Technology explored the opinion of 5,000 people from 109 countries on automated driving. Results showed that respondents, on average, found manual driving the most enjoyable mode of driving. 22% of the respondents did not want to spend any money for a fully automated driving system. Respondents were found to be most concerned about software hacking/misuse, and were also concerned about legal issues and safety. Finally, respondents from more developed countries (in terms of lower accident statistics, higher education, and higher income) were less comfortable with their vehicle transmitting data.[264] The survey also gave results on potential consumer opinion on interest of purchasing an automated car, stating that 37% of surveyed current owners were either "definitely" or "probably" interested in purchasing an automated car.[264]
"Vislab, University of Parma, Italy – 8000 miles driverless test begins"
"ISO/TC 204: Intelligent transport systems". ISO. Retrieved 11 May 2022.
^ "Adopted Regulations for Testing of Autonomous Vehicles by Manufacturers". DMV. 18 June 2016. Retrieved 13 February 2017.
"Vislab, University of Parma, Italy – 8000 miles driverless test begins". Archived from the original on 14 November 2013. Retrieved 27 October 2013.
Slone, Sean (August 2016). "State Laws on Autonomous Vehicles" (PDF). Capitol Research – Transportation Policy. Council of State Governments. Archived from the original (PDF) on 28 February 2021. Retrieved 28 September 2016.
^ a b Wang, Brian (25 March 2018). "Uber' self-driving system was still 400 times worse [than] Waymo in 2018 on key distance intervention metric". NextBigFuture.com. Retrieved 25 March 2018.
In December 2022, Honda announced that it will enhance its Level 3 technology to function at any speed below legal limits on highways by 2029.[281][282]
Simulation and validationIn September 2022, Biprogy released a software system of "Driving Intelligence Validation Platform (DIVP)" as the achievement of Japanese national project "SIP-adus" led by Cabinet Office with the same name of its subproject which is interoperable withOpen Simulation Interface (OSI) of ASAM.[208][209][210]
In a 2014 US telephone survey by Insurance.com, over three-quarters of licensed drivers said they would at least consider buying a self-driving car, rising to 86% if car insurance were cheaper. 31.7% said they would not continue to drive once an automated car was available instead.[262]
^ Rebecca Bellan (25 May 2022). "Pony.ai loses permit to test autonomous vehicles with driver in California". TechCrunch. Retrieved 30 May 2022.
In 2017, Pew Research Center surveyed 4,135 US adults from 1–15 May and found that many Americans anticipate significant impacts from various automation technologies in the course of their lifetimes—from the widespread adoption of automated vehicles to the replacement of entire job categories with robot workers.[267]
^ Badger, Emily (15 January 2015). "5 confounding questions that hold the key to the future of driverless cars". The Washington Post. Retrieved 22 January 2015.
^ Inagaki, Toshiyuki; Sheridan, Thomas B. (November 2019). "A critique of the SAE conditional driving automation definition, and analyses of options for improvement". Cognition, Technology & Work. 21 (4): 569–578. doi:10.1007/s10111-018-0471-5. ISSN 1435-5558. S2CID 254144879.
"GM's Cruise Autonomous Car Blocks Fire Truck on Emergency Call"
^ "ISO/TC 22: Road vehicles". ISO. Retrieved 11 May 2022.
^ Office of Defects Investigations, NHTSA (28 June 2016). "ODI Resume – Investigation: PE 16-007" (PDF). National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 July 2016. Retrieved 2 July 2016.
"A second Apple employee was charged with stealing self-driving car project secrets"
^ "Honda to develop advanced level 3 self-driving technology by 2029". Reuters. 1 December 2022. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
David Shepardson (19 February 2021). "GM seeks U.S approval to deploy self-driving vehicles". Reuters. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
List of self-driving system suppliers § Date of first public road driverless operation
^ "The Pathway to Driverless Cars: A Code of Practice for testing". 19 July 2015. Retrieved 8 April 2017.
^ "California DMV releases autonomous vehicle disengagement reports for 2019". VentureBeat. 26 February 2020. Retrieved 30 November 2020.
In 2017, Mobileye published a mathematical model for automated vehicle safety which is called "Responsibility-Sensitive Safety (RSS)".[111]It is under standardization at IEEE Standards Association as "IEEE P2846: A Formal Model for Safety Considerations in Automated Vehicle Decision Making".[112]
"Cruise opens up driverless taxi service to public in San Francisco"
In the formal SAE definition below, an important transition is from SAE Level 2 to SAE Level 3 in which the human driver is no longer expected to monitor the environment continuously. At SAE 3, the human driver still has responsibility to intervene when asked to do so by the automated system. At SAE 4 the human driver is always relieved of that responsibility and at SAE 5 the automated system will never need to ask for an intervention.
"The Tech That Won the First Formula Student Driverless Race"
Turk, M.A.; Morgenthaler, D.G.; Gremban, K.D.; Marra, M. (May 1988). "VITS-a vision system for automated land vehicle navigation". IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. 10 (3): 342–361. doi:10.1109/34.3899. ISSN 0162-8828.
"A Tragic Loss" (Press release). Tesla Motors. 30 June 2016. Retrieved 1 July 2016. This is the first known fatality in just over 130 million miles where Autopilot was activated. Among all vehicles in the US, there is a fatality every 94 million miles. Worldwide, there is a fatality approximately every 60 million miles.
^ Deepshikha Shukla (16 August 2019). "Design Considerations For Autonomous Vehicles". Retrieved 18 April 2018.
"California Robocar Disengagement Reports Reveal Tidbits About Tesla, AutoX, Apple, Others"
"L3Pilot Final Project Results published". L3Pilot. 28 February 2022. Retrieved 27 April 2022.
Drive by wire technology in the automotive industry is the use of electrical or electro-mechanical systems for performing vehicle functions traditionally achieved by mechanical linkages.
^ a b .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}Taeihagh, Araz; Lim, Hazel Si Min (2 January 2019). "Governing autonomous vehicles: emerging responses for safety, liability, privacy, cybersecurity, and industry risks". Transport Reviews. 39 (1): 103–128. arXiv:1807.05720. doi:10.1080/01441647.2018.1494640. ISSN 0144-1647. S2CID 49862783.
In March 2019, ahead of the autonomous racing series Roborace, Robocar set the Guinness World Record for being the fastest autonomous car in the world. In pushing the limits of self-driving vehicles, Robocar reached 282.42 km/h (175.49 mph) – an average confirmed by the UK Timing Association at Elvington in Yorkshire, UK.[56]
Hall-Geisler, Kristen (22 December 2016). "Autonomous cars seen as smarter than human drivers". TechCrunch. Retrieved 26 December 2016.
Avoidance of large animals requires recognition and tracking, and Volvo found that software suited to caribou, deer, and elk was ineffective with kangaroos.[131]
^ SingularityU The Netherlands (1 September 2016), Carlo van de Weijer on real intelligence, archived from the original on 30 October 2021, retrieved 21 November 2016
^ "Mercedes-Benz Drive Pilot certified for use in Nevada – first L3 system approved for US highways". 27 January 2023.
Lassa, Todd (January 2013). "The Beginning of the End of Driving". Motor Trend. Retrieved 1 September 2014.
Vijayenthiran, Viknesh (2 February 2022). "Cruise opens up driverless taxi service to public in San Francisco". Motor Authority. Retrieved 27 March 2022.
^ "Microsoft and Toyota Join Forces in FIA World Rally Championship". Toyotal. 20 September 2016. Retrieved 20 November 2022.
^ Hawkins, Andrew J. (8 October 2020). "Waymo will allow more people to ride in its fully driverless vehicles in Phoenix". The Verge. Retrieved 5 March 2021.
^ "ISO/TC 204: Intelligent transport systems". ISO. Retrieved 11 May 2022.
"ISO 34502:2022 Road vehicles — Test scenarios for automated driving systems — Scenario based safety evaluation framework". ISO. November 2022. Retrieved 17 November 2022.
^ "eve autonomy launches Japan's first unmanned transportation service using autonomous EV" (Press release). eve autonomy. 1 December 2022. Retrieved 3 December 2022.
^ "On the Road – Waymo". Waymo. Archived from the original on 23 March 2018. Retrieved 27 July 2018.
"Ex-Apple engineer arrested on his way to China, charged with stealing company's autonomous car secrets"
In April 2022, Honda unveiled its Level 4 mobility service partners to roll out in central Tokyo in the mid-2020s using the Cruse Origin.[295]By September 2022, Japan version prototype of Cruise Origin for Tokyo was completed and started testing.[296]
^ Path to Autonomy: Self-Driving Car Levels 0 to 5 Explained – Car and Driver, October 2017
^ Charles McLellan (4 November 2019). "What is V2X communication? Creating connectivity for the autonomous car era". ZDNet. Retrieved 8 May 2022.
^ "Honda Unveils Next-generation Technologies of Honda SENSING 360 and Honda SENSING Elite". Honda. 1 December 2022. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
Lin, Patrick (8 October 2013). "The Ethics of Autonomous Cars". The Atlantic.
Anthony James (5 January 2022). "New Benteler brand Holon presents world's first autonomous mover built to automotive standards". ADAS & Autonomous Vehicle International. Retrieved 21 January 2023.
^ Wallace, Richard (1985). "First results in robot road-following" (PDF). JCAI'85 Proceedings of the 9th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 August 2014.
^ Hallerbach, S.; Xia, Y.; Eberle, U.; Koester, F. (2018). "Simulation-Based Identification of Critical Scenarios for Cooperative and Automated Vehicles". SAE International Journal of Connected and Automated Vehicles. SAE International. 1 (2): 93–106. doi:10.4271/2018-01-1066.
^ "ISO 34502:2022 Road vehicles — Test scenarios for automated driving systems — Scenario based safety evaluation framework". ISO. November 2022. Retrieved 17 November 2022.
^ David Shepardson (26 April 2022). "U.S. Senate Democrats urge Buttigieg to develop autonomous vehicle rules". Reuters. Retrieved 29 April 2022.
^ Umar Zakir Abdul, Hamid;et al. (2021). "Adopting Aviation Safety Knowledge into the Discussions of Safe Implementation of Connected and Autonomous Road Vehicles". SAE Technical Papers (SAE WCX Digital Summit) (2021–01–0074). Retrieved 12 April 2021.
^ River Davis (2 August 2021). "Hyperdrive Daily: The Driverless Shuttle Helping Toyota Win Gold". Bloomberg News. Retrieved 7 November 2021.
^ a b "Honda to Begin Sales of Legend with New Honda SENSING Elite". Honda. 4 March 2021. Retrieved 6 March 2021.
"What's big, orange and covered in LEDs? This start-up's new approach to self-driving cars". NBC News.
Current road infrastructure may need changes for automated cars to function optimally.[133]
Collision avoidanceIn April 2022, collision avoidance testing was demonstrated by Nissan.[205][206]Also, Waymo published a document about collision avoidance testing in December 2022.[207]
^ "L3Pilot Final Project Results published". L3Pilot. 28 February 2022. Retrieved 27 April 2022.
"Autonomous cars: Bring 'em on, drivers say in Insurance.com survey". Insurance.com. 28 July 2014. Retrieved 29 July 2014.
"Nuro set to be California's first driverless delivery service". BBC News. 24 December 2020. Retrieved 27 December 2020.
Self-driving shuttle is an application of self-driving car with considerations of multiple passengers supposing the use cases mainly in cities. Through the European Union funded "CityMobil2" project in the mid-2010s, research and development of self-driving shuttle became active in Europe.[177]Continuously, under the funding programme Horizon 2020, "Avenue" project was conducted from 2018 to 2022 in four cities (Geneva, Lyon, Copenhagen and Luxembourg).[178]
^ Kanade, Takeo (February 1986). "Autonomous land vehicle project at CMU". Proceedings of the 1986 ACM fourteenth annual conference on Computer science – CSC '86. CSC '86 Proceedings of the 1986 ACM Fourteenth Annual Conference on Computer Science. Csc '86. pp. 71–80. doi:10.1145/324634.325197. ISBN 9780897911771. S2CID 2308303.
"Honda Unveils CI-powered Micro-mobility Technologies that Utilize Honda CI (Cooperative Intelligence), Honda's Original AI that Enables Mutual Understanding between Machines and People". Honda. 3 November 2022. Retrieved 3 November 2022.
^ Shepardson, David (12 July 2016). "NHTSA seeks answers on fatal Tesla Autopilot crash". Automotive News. Retrieved 13 July 2016.
"Automotive luxury experienced in a completely new way – The main points of the new Mercedes-Benz S-Class at a glance". Mercedes me media. 2 September 2020. Retrieved 21 May 2022.
Vlasic, Bill; Boudette, Neal E. (30 June 2016). "Self-Driving Tesla Involved in Fatal Crash". The New York Times. Retrieved 1 July 2016.
Rafael Borghi (10 January 2022). "Deep Learning in Games to Improve Autonomous Driving". Dublin Business School. Retrieved 11 September 2022.
Kemp, Roger (2018). "Autonomous vehicles – who will be liable for accidents?". [15 Digital Evidence and Electronic Signature Law Review (2018) 33 – 47].
Karnouskos, Stamatis (2020). "Self-Driving Car Acceptance and the Role of Ethics". IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management. 67 (2): 252–265. doi:10.1109/TEM.2018.2877307. ISSN 0018-9391. S2CID 115447875.
^ Garvin, Glenn (21 March 2014). "Automakers say self-driving cars are on the horizon". Miami Herald. Retrieved 22 March 2014.
Jean-François Bonnefon; Azim Shariff; Iyad Rahwan (2016). "The Social Dilemma of Autonomous Vehicles". Science. 352 (6293): 1573–6. arXiv:1510.03346. Bibcode:2016Sci...352.1573B. doi:10.1126/science.aaf2654. PMID 27339987. S2CID 35400794.
^ Newton, Casey (18 November 2013). "Reliance on autopilot is now the biggest threat to flight safety, study says". The Verge. Retrieved 19 November 2013.
^ Seigo Kuzumaki. "Development of "Driving Intelligence Validation Platform" for ADS safety assurance" (PDF). SIP-adus. Retrieved 12 September 2022.
As of November 2021[update], Tesla's advanced driver-assistance system (ADAS) Autopilot is classified as a Level 2.[217]
^ "Apply for an Autonomous Vehicle Technology Demonstration / Testing Permit". 9 May 2017.
As of February 2022[update], Hyundai Motor Company is in the stage of enhancing cybersecurity of connected cars to put Level 3 self-driving Genesis G90 on Korean roads.[280]
"Microsoft and Toyota Join Forces in FIA World Rally Championship". Toyotal. 20 September 2016. Retrieved 20 November 2022.
"Robocar: Watch the world's fastest autonomous car reach its record-breaking 282 km/h"
Gereon Meyer, Sven Beiker (Eds.), Road Vehicle Automation, Springer International Publishing 2014, ISBN 978-3-319-05990-7, and following issues: Road Vehicle Automation 2 (2015), Road Vehicle Automation 3 (2016), Road Vehicle Automation 4 (2017), Road Vehicle Automation 5 (2018), Road Vehicle Automation 6 (2019). These books are based on presentations and discussions at the Automated Vehicles Symposium organized annually by TRB and AUVSI.
Vehicular communications is a growing area of communications between vehicles and including roadside communication infrastructure. Vehicular communication systems use vehicles and roadside units as the communicating nodes in a peer-to-peer network, providing each other with information. This connectivity enables autonomous vehicles to interact with non-autonomous traffic and pedestrians to increase safety.[105][106]And autonomous vehicles will need to connect to the cloud to update their software and maps, and feedback information to improve the used maps and software of their manufacturer.[93]
On 9 November 2017, a Navya Arma automated self-driving bus with passengers was involved in a crash with a truck. The truck was found to be at fault of the crash, reversing into the stationary automated bus. The automated bus did not take evasive actions or apply defensive driving techniques such as flashing its headlights, or sounding the horn. As one passenger commented, "The shuttle didn't have the ability to move back. The shuttle just stayed still."[252]
^ a b "Automated Driving – Levels of Driving Automation are Defined in New SAE International Standard J3016" (PDF). SAE International. 2014. Archived (PDF) from the original on 1 July 2018.
^ A First Drive. 27 May 2014. Archived from the original on 30 October 2021 – via YouTube.
Ruffo, Gustavo Henrique (17 August 2021). "Nio's Autopilot, NOP, Faces Intense Scrutiny With First Fatal Crash in China". autoevolution. Retrieved 17 February 2022.
"New International Standard Issued for the Scenario-Based Safety Evaluation Framework for Automated Driving Systems Formulated by Japan". METI, Japan. 16 November 2022. Retrieved 14 December 2022.
Autonomous means self-governing.[65] Many historical projects related to vehicle automation have been automated (made automatic) subject to a heavy reliance on artificial aids in their environment, such as magnetic strips. Autonomous control implies satisfactory performance under significant uncertainties in the environment, and the ability to compensate for system failures without external intervention.[65]
"Development of "Driving Intelligence Validation Platform" for ADS safety assurance"
"Autonomous Vehicle Regulation: How an Uncertain Legal Landscape May Hit the Brakes on Self-Driving Cars"
In 2016, a PwC survey, in the United States, showing the opinion of 1,584 people, highlights that "66 percent of respondents said they think autonomous cars are probably smarter than the average human driver". People are still worried about safety and mostly the fact of having the car hacked. Nevertheless, only 13% of the interviewees see no advantages in this new kind of cars.[266]
^ Alain Dunoyer (27 January 2022). "Why driver monitoring will be critical to next-generation autonomous vehicles". SBD Automotive. Retrieved 13 May 2022.
"Toyota to Offer Rides in SAE Level-4 Automated Vehicles on Public Roads in Japan Next Summer" (Press release). Toyota. 24 October 2019. Retrieved 17 March 2022.
Hybrid navigation is the simultaneous use of more than one navigation system for location data determination, needed for navigation.
"Honda Legend Sedan with Level 3 Autonomy Available for Lease in Japan"
"Uber puts the brakes on testing robot cars in California after Arizona fatality"
Kanade, Takeo (February 1986). "Autonomous land vehicle project at CMU". Proceedings of the 1986 ACM fourteenth annual conference on Computer science – CSC '86. CSC '86 Proceedings of the 1986 ACM Fourteenth Annual Conference on Computer Science. Csc '86. pp. 71–80. doi:10.1145/324634.325197. ISBN 9780897911771. S2CID 2308303.
"Self-driving Uber killed a pedestrian as human safety driver watched"
"What is V2X communication? Creating connectivity for the autonomous car era"
Rosen, Rebecca (9 August 2012). "Google's Self-Driving Cars: 300,000 Miles Logged, Not a Single Accident Under Computer Control". The Atlantic. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
Nico DeMattia (5 November 2021). "2022 BMW 7 Series Will Get Level 3 Autonomous Driving Next Year". BMWBLOG. Retrieved 22 November 2021.
^ Rosen, Rebecca (9 August 2012). "Google's Self-Driving Cars: 300,000 Miles Logged, Not a Single Accident Under Computer Control". The Atlantic. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
4Technology											Toggle Technology subsection																					4.1General perspectives																											4.2Hybrid navigation																											4.3Drive by wire																											4.4Driver monitoring system																											4.5Vehicular communication																											4.6Re-programmable																											4.7Modularity																											4.8Homogenization																											4.9Mathematical safety model
^ Rearick, Brenden (16 August 2021). "NIO Stock: 10 Things to Know About the Fatal Crash Dragging Down Nio Today". InvestorPlace. Retrieved 17 February 2022.
Roberto Baldwin (9 March 2021). "Tesla Tells California DMV that FSD Is Not Capable of Autonomous Driving". Car and Driver.
Brodsky, Jessica (2016). "Autonomous Vehicle Regulation: How an Uncertain Legal Landscape May Hit the Brakes on Self-Driving Cars". Berkeley Technology Law Journal. 31 (Annual Review 2016): 851–878. Retrieved 29 November 2017.
Autonomous vehicles are more modular since they are made up out of several modules which will be explained hereafter through a Layered Modular Architecture. The Layered Modular Architecture extends the architecture of purely physical vehicles by incorporating four loosely coupled layers of devices, networks, services and contents into Autonomous Vehicles. These loosely coupled layers can interact through certain standardized interfaces.
"Self-Driving Taxis Are Causing All Kinds of Trouble in San Francisco"
"Honda to start selling world's 1st level-3 autonomous car for $103K on Fri". Kyodo News. 4 March 2021. Archived from the original on 5 March 2021. Retrieved 6 March 2021.
"Passenger bus teaches Google robot car a lesson". Los Angeles Times. 29 February 2016.
Autonomous micro-mobilityResearch has indicated that goods distribution on the macro (urban distribution) and micro level (last mile delivery) could be made more efficient with the use of autonomous vehicles[180] thanks to the possibility of smaller vehicle sizes.Also, simulation studies in MIT Media Lab indicate that ultra-lightweight systems can become more helping to remove cars from our cities by applying autonomous driving technologies.[181]
Meyer, Gereon (2018). European Roadmaps, Programs, and Projects for Innovation in Connected and Automated Road Transport. In: G. Meyer, S. Beiker, Road Vehicle Automation 5. Springer 2018. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-94896-6_3. S2CID 169808153.
"An Autonomous Car Blocked a Fire Truck Responding to an Emergency"
Path to Autonomy: Self-Driving Car Levels 0 to 5 Explained
In September 2020, Mercedes-Benz introduced world's first commercial Level 4 Automated Valet Parking (AVP) system named Intelligent Park Pilot for its new S-Class. The system can be pre-installed but is conditional on future national legal approval.[287][288]
"MIT built a self-driving car that can navigate unmapped country roads"
Narayanan, Santhanakrishnan; Chaniotakis, Emmanouil; Antoniou, Constantinos (1 February 2020). "Shared autonomous vehicle services: A comprehensive review". Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies. 111: 255–293. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2019.12.008. ISSN 0968-090X. S2CID 213859884.
^ "SAE Self-Driving Levels 0 to 5 for Automation – What They Mean". 23 January 2020.
"NTSB chair calls on Elon Musk to change design of Tesla Autopilot"
^ "How Self-Driving Cars Work". 14 December 2017. Retrieved 18 April 2018.
Durrant-Whyte, H.; Bailey, T. (5 June 2006). "Simultaneous localization and mapping". IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine. 13 (2): 99–110. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.135.9810. doi:10.1109/mra.2006.1638022. ISSN 1070-9932. S2CID 8061430.
"On the Road – Waymo". Waymo. Archived from the original on 23 March 2018. Retrieved 27 July 2018.
Sean O'Kane (30 January 2019). "A second Apple employee was charged with stealing self-driving car project secrets". The Verge. Retrieved 18 April 2022.
A landmark autonomous car appeared in the 1980s, with Carnegie Mellon University's Navlab[24] and ALV[25][26] projects funded by the United States' Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) starting in 1984 and Mercedes-Benz and Bundeswehr University Munich's EUREKA Prometheus Project in 1987.[27] By 1985, the ALV had demonstrated self-driving speeds on two-lane roads of 31 kilometres per hour (19 mph), with obstacle avoidance added in 1986, and off-road driving in day and night time conditions by 1987.[28] A major milestone was achieved in 1995, with Carnegie Mellon University's Navlab 5 completing the first autonomous coast-to-coast drive of the United States. Of the 2,849 mi (4,585 km) between Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and San Diego, California, 2,797 mi (4,501 km) were autonomous (98.2%), completed with an average speed of 63.8 mph (102.7 km/h).[29][30][31][32] From the 1960s through the second DARPA Grand Challenge in 2005, automated vehicle research in the United States was primarily funded by DARPA, the US Army, and the US Navy, yielding incremental advances in speeds, driving competence in more complex conditions, controls, and sensor systems.[33] Companies and research organizations have developed prototypes.[27][34][35][36][37][38][39][40][41]
According to the SMMT, "There are two clear states – a vehicle is either assisted with a driver being supported by technology or automated where the technology is effectively and safely replacing the driver."[64]
On 20 January 2016, the first of five known fatal crashes of a Tesla with Autopilot occurred in China's Hubei province.[218] According to China's 163.com news channel, this marked "China's first accidental death due to Tesla's automatic driving (system)". Initially, Tesla pointed out that the vehicle was so badly damaged from the impact that their recorder was not able to conclusively prove that the car had been on autopilot at the time; however, 163.com pointed out that other factors, such as the car's absolute failure to take any evasive actions prior to the high speed crash, and the driver's otherwise good driving record, seemed to indicate a strong likelihood that the car was on autopilot at the time. A similar fatal crash occurred four months later in Florida.[219][220] In 2018, in a subsequent civil suit between the father of the driver killed and Tesla, Tesla did not deny that the car had been on autopilot at the time of the accident, and sent evidence to the victim's father documenting that fact.[221]
Sensor fusionControl systems on automated cars may use sensor fusion, which is an approach that integrates information from a variety of sensors on the car to produce a more consistent, accurate, and useful view of the environment.[100] Self-driving cars tend to use a combination of cameras, LiDAR sensors, and radar sensors in order to enhance performance and ensure the safety of the passenger and other drivers on the road. An increased consistency in self-driving performance prevents accidents that may occur because of one faulty sensor.[101]
SMMT publishes guiding principles for marketing automated vehicles, SMMT, 22 novembre 2021
^ Karnouskos, Stamatis (2020). "Self-Driving Car Acceptance and the Role of Ethics". IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management. 67 (2): 252–265. doi:10.1109/TEM.2018.2877307. ISSN 0018-9391. S2CID 115447875.
"Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 becomes law". penningtonslaw.com. Retrieved 24 March 2021.
^ Xie, S.; Hu, J.;Bhowmick, P.; Ding, Z.; Arvin, F., "Distributed Motion Planning for Safe Autonomous Vehicle Overtaking via Artificial Potential Field" IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2022.
"Tesla Crash Investigation Yields 9 NTSB Safety Recommendations" (Press release). National Transportation Safety Board. 25 February 2020. Retrieved 28 July 2020.
^ "self-driving car Definition from PC Magazine Encyclopedia". PC Magazine.
"NIO Stock: 10 Things to Know About the Fatal Crash Dragging Down Nio Today"
Some car makers suggest or claim vehicles are self-driving when they are not able to manage some driving situations. Despite being called Full Self-Driving, Tesla stated that its offering should not be considered as a fully autonomous driving system.[61] This makes drivers risk becoming excessively confident, taking distracted driving behavior, leading to crashes. While in Great-Britain, a fully self-driving car is only a car registered in a specific list.[62] There have also been proposals to adopt the aviation automation safety knowledge into the discussions of safe implementation of autonomous vehicles, due to the experience that has been gained over the decades by the aviation sector on safety topics.[63]
It was in July 2018 that a former Apple engineer was arrested by Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) at San Jose International Airport (SJC) while preparing to board a flight to China and charged with stealing proprietary information related to Apple's self-driving car project.[149][150]And in January 2019, another Apple employee was charged with stealing self-driving car project secrets.[151]In July 2021, United States Department of Justice (DOJ) accused Chinese security officials of a hacking attack seeking data onof coordinating a vast hacking campaign to steal sensitive and secret information from government entities including research related to autonomous vehicles.[152][153]On the China side, they have already prepared "the Provisions on Management of Automotive Data Security (Trial)".[154][155]
^ Smith, Aaron; Anderson, Monica (4 October 2017). "Automation in Everyday Life".
There is not a vehicle currently available to US consumers that is self-driving. Period. Every vehicle sold to US consumers still requires the driver to be actively engaged in the driving task, even when advanced driver assistance systems are activated. If you are selling a car with an advanced driver assistance system, you're not selling a self-driving car. If you are driving a car with an advanced driver assistance system, you don't own a self-driving car.[57]
^ Connor-Simons, Adam; Gordon, Rachel (7 May 2018). "Self-driving cars for country roads: Today's automated vehicles require hand-labeled 3-D maps, but CSAIL's MapLite system enables navigation with just GPS and sensors". Retrieved 14 May 2018.
"Hackers find ways to hijack car computers and take control"
^ "Autonomous cars: Bring 'em on, drivers say in Insurance.com survey". Insurance.com. 28 July 2014. Retrieved 29 July 2014.
"Consumers in US and UK Frustrated with Intelligent Devices That Frequently Crash or Freeze, New Accenture Survey Finds". Accenture. 10 October 2011. Retrieved 30 June 2013.
"Honda to Begin Sales of Legend with New Honda SENSING Elite"
Taiebat, Morteza; Brown, Austin; Safford, Hannah; Qu, Shen; Xu, Ming (2019). "A Review on Energy, Environmental, and Sustainability Implications of Connected and Automated Vehicles". Environmental Science & Technology. 52 (20): 11449–11465. arXiv:1901.10581. Bibcode:2019arXiv190110581T. doi:10.1021/acs.est.8b00127. PMID 30192527. S2CID 52174043.
^ a b Tussy, Ron (29 April 2016). "Challenges facing Autonomous Vehicle Development". AutoSens. Retrieved 5 May 2016.
"'Inadequate Safety Culture' Contributed to Uber Automated Test Vehicle Crash – NTSB Calls for Federal Review Process for Automated Vehicle Testing on Public Roads". ntsb.gov. Retrieved 24 October 2022.
"Detection of Static and Mobile Targets by an Autonomous Agent with Deep Q-Learning Abilities"
^ "Toyota pushes AI to drive like pros". Yomiuri Shinbun. 17 November 2021. Retrieved 20 November 2022.
Wallace, Richard (1985). "First results in robot road-following" (PDF). JCAI'85 Proceedings of the 9th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 August 2014.
A self-driving car, also known as an autonomous car, driver-less car, or robotic car (robo-car),[1][2][3] is a car that is capable of traveling without human input.[4][5] Self-driving cars use sensors to perceive their surroundings, such as optical and thermographic cameras, radar, lidar, ultrasound/sonar, GPS, odometry and inertial measurement units.[6] Control systems interpret sensory information to create a three-dimensional model of the surroundings. Based on the model, the car identifies appropriate navigation paths, and strategies for managing traffic controls (stop signs, etc.) and obstacles.[7][8][9][10][11]
Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control for Connected Autonomous Vehicles using Spring Damping Energy Model
^ Gehrig, Stefan K.; Stein, Fridtjof J. (1999). Dead reckoning and cartography using stereo vision for an automated car. IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems. Vol. 3. Kyongju. pp. 1507–1512. doi:10.1109/IROS.1999.811692. ISBN 0-7803-5184-3.
"For the first time, Google's self-driving car takes some blame for a crash"
^ Kif Leswing (22 August 2022). "Former Apple engineer accused of stealing automotive trade secrets pleads guilty". CNBC. Retrieved 23 August 2022.
"The Pathway to Driverless Cars: A Code of Practice for testing". 19 July 2015. Retrieved 8 April 2017.
^ "Google founder defends accident records of self-driving cars". Los Angeles Times. Associated Press. 3 June 2015. Retrieved 1 July 2016.
Cellan-Jones, Rory (12 June 2018). "Insurers warning on "autonomous" cars". BBC News.
"JASO TP 18004: 自動車用運転自動化システムのレベル分類及び定義" [JASO TP 18004: Taxonomy and Definitions for Terms Related to Driving Automation Systems] (PDF). JASO, Japan. 1 February 2018. Retrieved 1 December 2021.
Experiments have been conducted on automated driving systems (ADS) since at least the 1920s;[21] trials began in the 1950s. The first semi-automated car was developed in 1977, by Japan's Tsukuba Mechanical Engineering Laboratory, which required specially marked streets that were interpreted by two cameras on the vehicle and an analog computer. The vehicle reached speeds up to 30 kilometres per hour (19 mph) with the support of an elevated rail.[22][23]
Huval, Brody; Wang, Tao; Tandon, Sameep; Kiske, Jeff; Song, Will; Pazhayampallil, Joel (2015). "An Empirical Evaluation of Deep Learning on Highway Driving". arXiv:1504.01716 [cs.RO].
^ Ruffo, Gustavo Henrique (17 August 2021). "Nio's Autopilot, NOP, Faces Intense Scrutiny With First Fatal Crash in China". autoevolution. Retrieved 17 February 2022.
^ Hohenberger, C.; Spörrle, M.; Welpe, I. M. (2016). "How and why do men and women differ in their willingness to use automated cars? The influence of emotions across different age groups". Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice. 94: 374–385. doi:10.1016/j.tra.2016.09.022.
Stumpf, Rob (8 March 2021). "Tesla Admits Current "Full Self-Driving Beta" Will Always Be a Level 2 System: Emails". The Drive. Retrieved 29 August 2021.
Andrew J. Hawkins (9 December 2019). "Waymo's driverless car: ghost-riding in the back seat of a robot". The Verge. Retrieved 11 April 2022.
"Autonomous Vehicle Predictions: Auto Experts Offer Insights on the Future of Self-Driving Cars". PartCatalog.com. 16 March 2015. Retrieved 18 March 2015.
Althoff, Matthias; Sontges, Sebastian (June 2017). "Computing possible driving corridors for automated vehicles".
^ Morris, David (8 November 2020). "What's in a name? For Tesla's Full Self Driving, it may be danger". Fortune. Retrieved 8 March 2021.
^ "Standards Collection". connected automated driving.eu. Retrieved 23 November 2021.
^ "Consumers in US and UK Frustrated with Intelligent Devices That Frequently Crash or Freeze, New Accenture Survey Finds". Accenture. 10 October 2011. Retrieved 30 June 2013.
Aaron Brown (29 July 2016). "Mercedes-Benz to Stop Running "Self-Driving Car" Ads". The Drive. Retrieved 15 April 2022.
^ "BMW, Mercedes, Bosch welcome regulatory boost for "eyes-off" self-driving tech". 26 June 2020.
^ Matzliach, Barouch (2022). "Detection of Static and Mobile Targets by an Autonomous Agent with Deep Q-Learning Abilities" (PDF). Entropy. Entropy, 2022, 24, 1168. 24 (8): 1168. Bibcode:2022Entrp..24.1168M. doi:10.3390/e24081168. PMC 9407070. PMID 36010832.
"Frequency of Target Crashes for IntelliDrive Safety Systems" (PDF). NHTSA. October 2010. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 April 2021. Retrieved 27 April 2022.
^ "Will Regulators Allow Self-Driving Cars in a Few Years?". Forbes. 24 September 2013. Retrieved 5 January 2014.
"'Inadequate Safety Culture' Contributed to Uber Automated Test Vehicle Crash – NTSB Calls for Federal Review Process for Automated Vehicle Testing on Public Roads"
^ Petit, J.; Shladover, S.E. (1 April 2015). "Potential Cyberattacks on Automated Vehicles". IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems. 16 (2): 546–556. doi:10.1109/TITS.2014.2342271. ISSN 1524-9050. S2CID 15605711.
^ "Follow The Money Of Robotaxis: A Massive Market Of Dollars And Obstacles". Forbes. 30 March 2021. Retrieved 12 July 2021.
Stoklosa, Alexander (22 October 2020). "Tesla Puts "Beta" Version of Full Self-Driving Capability in Hands of Select Few". Motor Trend. Retrieved 25 October 2020.
^ Silver, David (20 January 2018). "Limited talent pool is standing in the way of driverless cars". The Next Web.
Handover and risk compensationTwo human-factor challenges are important for safety. One is the handover from automated driving to manual driving.Human factors research on automated systems has shown that people are slow to detect a problem with automation and slow to understand the problem after it is detected. When automation failures occur, unexpected transitions that require a driver to take over will occur suddenly and the driver may not be ready to take over.[160]
^ "Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 becomes law". penningtonslaw.com. Retrieved 24 March 2021.
The British Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 law defines a vehicle as "driving itself" if the vehicle "is operating in a mode in which it is not being controlled, and does not need to be monitored, by an individual".[73]
"2022 BMW 7 Series Will Get Level 3 Autonomous Driving Next Year"
Hawkins, Andrew J. (13 May 2018). "MIT built a self-driving car that can navigate unmapped country roads". The Verge. Retrieved 14 May 2018.
Competition for the radio spectrum desired for the car's communication.[132]
^ a b c d "2020 Autonomous Vehicle Technology Report". Wevolver. 20 February 2020. Retrieved 11 April 2022.
^ Cellan-Jones, Rory (12 June 2018). "Insurers warning on "autonomous" cars". BBC News.
Gomes, Lee (28 August 2014). "Hidden Obstacles for Google's Self-Driving Cars". MIT Technology Review. Archived from the original on 16 March 2015. Retrieved 22 January 2015.
In 2022, research by safety charity Lloyd's Register Foundation uncovered that only a quarter (27%) of the world's population would feel safe in self-driving cars.[269]
"Senators Call for Investigation of Tesla's Marketing Claims of Its Autopilot and "Full Self-Driving" Features"
There is some inconsistency in the terminology used in the self-driving car industry. Various organizations have proposed to define an accurate and consistent vocabulary.
Lubben, Alex (19 March 2018). "Self-driving Uber killed a pedestrian as human safety driver watched". Vice News. Retrieved 18 November 2021.
"Mercedes DRIVE PILOT: Level 3 luxury, coming soon to US"
Council, National Research (2002). Technology Development for Army Unmanned Ground Vehicles. doi:10.17226/10592. ISBN 9780309086202.
In November 2017, Waymo announced that it had begun testing driver-less cars without a safety driver in the driver position;[48] however, there was still an employee in the car.[49] An October 2017 report by the Brookings Institution found that $80 billion had been reported as invested in all facets of self driving technology up to that point, but that it was "reasonable to presume that total global investment in autonomous vehicle technology is significantly more than this".[50]
Deceptive marketingAs Tesla's "Full Self-Driving (FSD)" actually corresponds to Level 2,[135] senators called for investigation to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) about their marketing claims in August 2021.[136]And in December 2021 in Japan, Mercedes-Benz Japan Co., Ltd. was punished by the Consumer Affairs Agency for the descriptions in their handouts that are different from the fact.[137]
The second known fatal accident involving a vehicle being driven by itself took place in Williston, Florida on 7 May 2016 while a Tesla Model S electric car was engaged in Autopilot mode. The occupant was killed in a crash with an 18-wheel tractor-trailer. On 28 June 2016 the US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) opened a formal investigation into the accident working with the Florida Highway Patrol. According to NHTSA, preliminary reports indicate the crash occurred when the tractor-trailer made a left turn in front of the Tesla at an intersection on a non-controlled access highway, and the car failed to apply the brakes. The car continued to travel after passing under the truck's trailer.[222][223] NHTSA's preliminary evaluation was opened to examine the design and performance of any automated driving systems in use at the time of the crash, which involved a population of an estimated 25,000 Model S cars.[224] On 8 July 2016, NHTSA requested Tesla Motors provide the agency detailed information about the design, operation and testing of its Autopilot technology. The agency also requested details of all design changes and updates to Autopilot since its introduction, and Tesla's planned updates schedule for the next four months.[225]
^ Hawkins, Andrew J. (7 November 2017). "Waymo is first to put fully self-driving cars on US roads without a safety driver". The Verge. Retrieved 7 November 2017.
Waymo originated as a self-driving car project within Google. In August 2012, Google announced that their vehicles had completed over 300,000 automated-driving miles (500,000 km) accident-free, typically involving about a dozen cars on the road at any given time, and that they were starting to test with single drivers instead of in pairs.[231] In late-May 2014, Google revealed a new prototype that had no steering wheel, gas pedal, or brake pedal, and was fully automated.[232] As of March 2016[update], Google had test-driven their fleet in automated mode a total of 1,500,000 mi (2,400,000 km).[233] In December 2016, Google Corporation announced that its technology would be spun off to a new company called Waymo, with both Google and Waymo becoming subsidiaries of a new parent company called Alphabet.[234][235]
Pattinson, Jo-Ann; Chen, Haibo; Basu, Subhajit (2018). "Legal issues in automated vehicles: critically considering the potential role of consent and interactive digital interfaces". Humanities and Social Sciences Communications. 7.
^ Graham Hope (26 April 2022). "Nissan Tests Collision Avoidance Tech for Self-Driving Cars". IoT World Today. Retrieved 15 December 2022.
^ Gibbs, Samuel (9 November 2017). "Self-driving bus involved in crash less than two hours after Las Vegas launch". The Guardian. Retrieved 9 November 2017.
In 2014, such confusion was documented in SAE J3016 which states that "some vernacular usages associate autonomous specifically with full driving automation (Level 5), while other usages apply it to all levels of driving automation, and some state legislation has defined it to correspond approximately to any ADS [automated driving system] at or above Level 3 (or to any vehicle equipped with such an ADS)."
^ Seo Jin-woo; Jung You-jung; Lee Ha-yeon (16 February 2022). "Korean firms enhance car cybersecurity before Level 3 autonomous car releases". Pulse by Maeil Business Newspaper. Retrieved 22 April 2022.
Newton, Casey (18 November 2013). "Reliance on autopilot is now the biggest threat to flight safety, study says". The Verge. Retrieved 19 November 2013.
^ Adhikari, Richard (11 February 2016). "Feds Put AI in the Driver's Seat". Technewsworld. Retrieved 12 February 2016.
^ "Honda Signs Memorandum of Understanding with Teito Motor Transportation and kokusai motorcars as Part of Aim to Launch Autonomous Vehicle Mobility Service in Central Tokyo" (Press release). Honda. Retrieved 21 April 2022.
^ "WG: VT/ITS/AV Decision Making". IEEE Standards Association. Retrieved 18 July 2022.
^ Mark Schaub; Atticus Zhao; Mark Fu (24 August 2021). "China MIIT formulating new rules on data security". King & Wood Mallesons. Retrieved 23 April 2022.
"Back to the Future: Autonomous Driving in 1995 – Robotics Trends"
As of 2017[update], most commercial projects focused on automated vehicles that did not communicate with other vehicles or with an enveloping management regime. Euro NCAP defines autonomous in "Autonomous Emergency Braking" as: "the system acts independently of the driver to avoid or mitigate the accident", which implies the autonomous system is not the driver.[66]
"New International Standard Issued for the Scenario-Based Safety Evaluation Framework for Automated Driving Systems Formulated by Japan"
^ Ramsey, John (1 June 2015). "Self-driving cars to be tested on Virginia highways". Richmond Times-Dispatch. Retrieved 4 June 2015.
"Toyota pushes AI to drive like pros". Yomiuri Shinbun. 17 November 2021. Retrieved 20 November 2022.
^ "Autonomous Vehicle Predictions: Auto Experts Offer Insights on the Future of Self-Driving Cars". PartCatalog.com. 16 March 2015. Retrieved 18 March 2015.
"Taxonomy and Definitions for Terms Related to Driving Automation Systems for On-Road Motor Vehicles (SAE J3016)"
"The Costs of Self-Driving Cars: Reconciling Freedom and Privacy with Tort Liability in Autonomous Vehicle Regulation"
^ "Graduated Driver Licensing (GDL) Laws". July 2012. Retrieved 2012-07-22.
Depressing the pedals with one's feet to accelerate, slow and stop the vehicle andIf the vehicle is equipped with a manual transmission, to modulate the clutch
Motorists are almost universally required to take lessons with an approved instructor and to pass a driving test before being granted a license. Almost all countries allow all adults with good vision and health to apply to take a driving test and, if successful, to drive on public roads.
Making good and quick decisions based on factors such as road and traffic conditions
^ "Driving in France for UK Drivers". Driving in Paris. Archived from the original on April 19, 2017.
Hard-Rock and Classic Music Could Lead to Road Accidents, New Survey Says; Infoniac.com
There is a high rate of injury and death caused by motor vehicle accidents that involve teenage drivers.[15] There is evidence that the less teenagers drive the risk of injury drops.[15] There is a lack of evidence as to whether educationalinterventions to promote active transport and share information about the risks, cost, and stresses involved with driving are effective at reducing or delaying car driving in the teenage years.[15]
^ Hard-Rock and Classic Music Could Lead to Road Accidents, New Survey Says; Infoniac.com
"Assessing the fitness to drive". Mobility and transport - European Commission. October 17, 2016.
Traffic: why we drive the way we do (and what it says about us)
^ "Restrictions for L and P plate drivers - Keeping your licence - Your licence - GEARED". Geared - Transport for NSW. 16 August 2021.
Operating other important ancillary devices such as the indicators, headlights, parking brake and windshield wipers
In some countries (such as the UK), the car itself needs have a certificate that proves the vehicle is safe and roadworthy. Also, it needs to have a minimum of third party insurance.[20]
Driveability of a vehicle means the smooth delivery of power, as demanded by the driver. Typical causes of driveability degradation are rough idling, misfiring, surging, hesitation, or insufficient power.[16]
^ "Distracted Driving | NHTSA". National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Retrieved 2023-03-06.
Vanderbilt, Tom (2008). Traffic: why we drive the way we do (and what it says about us) (1st ed.). New York: Alfred A. Knopf. ISBN 978-0-307-26478-7.
Strayer, David; Drews, Frank; Crouch, Dennis (2003). "Fatal Distraction? A Comparison of the Cell-Phone Driver and the Drunk Driver" (PDF). University of Utah Department of Psychology. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2009-04-11.
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "Making of 'Carl & Bertha' (Film)" – via www.youtube.com.
The world's first long-distance road trip by automobile wasin August 1888 when Bertha Benz, wife of Benz Patent-Motorwagen inventor Karl Benz, drove 66 mi (106 km) Mannheim to Pforzheim, Germany, and returned, in the third experimental Benz motor car, which had a maximum speed of 10 mph (16 km/h), with her two teenage sons Richard and Eugen but without the consent and knowledge of her husband.[2][3][4] She had said she wanted to visit her mother, but also intended to generate publicity for her husband's invention, which had only been taken on short test drives before.[5]
^ Strayer, David; Drews, Frank; Crouch, Dennis (2003). "Fatal Distraction? A Comparison of the Cell-Phone Driver and the Drunk Driver" (PDF). University of Utah Department of Psychology. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2009-04-11.
^ "State of California Air Resources Board" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2008-09-10.
^ .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"The First Road Trip" (PDF).
^ Desapriya, E.; Wijeratne, H.; Subzwari, S.; Babul-Wellar, S.; Turcotte, K.; Rajabali, F.; Kinney, J.; Pike, I. (2011).Desapriya, Ediriweera (ed.). "Vision screening of older drivers for preventing road traffic injuries and fatalities". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (3): CD006252. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD006252.pub3. PMID 21412894.
Distractions can compromise a driver's mental skills, as can any altered state of consciousness. One study on the subject of mobile phones and driving safety concluded that, after controlling for driving difficulty and time on task, drivers talking on a phone exhibited greater impairment than drivers who were suffering from alcohol intoxication.[10] In the US "During daylight hours, approximately 481,000 drivers are using cell phones while driving according to the publication on the National Highway Traffic Safety Association. Another survey indicated that music could adversely affect a driver's concentration."[11][12][13]
.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}"The First Road Trip" (PDF).
^ a b c Ward, Aimee; Lewis, Sharon R.; Weiss, Harold (2020-08-16). "Mobility management to prevent, reduce, or delay driving a car in teenagers". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2020 (8): CD009438. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD009438.pub2. ISSN 1469-493X. PMC 8094927. PMID 32799320.
^ "Assessing the fitness to drive". Mobility and transport - European Commission. October 17, 2016.
This page was last edited on 6 March 2023, at 21:55 (UTC).
The rules of the road, driver licensing and vehicle registration schemes vary considerably between jurisdictions, as do laws imposing criminal responsibility for negligent driving, vehicle safety inspections and compulsory insurance. Most countries also have differing laws against driving while under the influence of alcohol or other drugs. Aggressive driving and road rage have become problems for drivers in some areas.
"Restrictions for L and P plate drivers - Keeping your licence - Your licence - GEARED". Geared - Transport for NSW. 16 August 2021.
Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "Making of 'Carl & Bertha' (Film)" – via www.youtube.com.
"Driving in France for UK Drivers". Driving in Paris. Archived from the original on April 19, 2017.
Ward, Aimee; Lewis, Sharon R.; Weiss, Harold (2020-08-16). "Mobility management to prevent, reduce, or delay driving a car in teenagers". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2020 (8): CD009438. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD009438.pub2. ISSN 1469-493X. PMC 8094927. PMID 32799320.
5Driving laws											Toggle Driving laws subsection																					5.1International conventions																											5.2Local driving laws																								5.2.1Ownership and insurance																											5.2.2Driving training
Driving is the controlled operation and movement of a vehicle, including cars, motorcycles, trucks, buses, and bicycles. Permission to drive on public highways is granted based on a set of conditions being met and drivers are required to follow the established road and traffic laws in the location they are driving. The word driving, has etymology dating back to the 15th century and has developed as what driving has encompassed has changed from working animals in the 15th to automobiles in the 1800s. Driving skills have also developed since the 15th century with physical, mental and safety skills being required to drive. This evolution of the skills required to drive have been accompanied by the introduction of driving laws which relate to not only the driver but the driveability of a car.
In many countries, even after passing one's driving test, new motorists are initially subject to special restrictions. For example, in Australia, novice drivers are required to carry "P" ("provisional") plates;,[21] in New Zealand it is called restricted (R)[22] both are subject to alcohol limits and other restrictions for the first two years of driving. Many U.S. states now issue graduated drivers' licenses to novice minors. Typically, newly licensed minors may not drive or operate a motorized vehicle at night or with a passenger other than family members. The duration of the restriction varies from six months to until the driver is 18 years old. This is due to the mental aptitude of a young or inexperienced driver not being fully developed.[23]
"Mobility management to prevent, reduce, or delay driving a car in teenagers"
A driver must have physical skills to be able to control direction, acceleration, and deceleration. For motor vehicles, the detailed tasks include: [8]
"Must Physicians Report Impaired Driving? Rethinking a Duty on a Collision Course with Itself"
"State of California Air Resources Board" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2008-09-10.
A few countries banned women driving in the past. In Oman, women were not allowed to drive until 1970.[24] In Saudi Arabia, women were not issued driving licenses until 2018. Saudi women had periodically staged driving protests against these restrictions and in September 2017, the Saudi government agreed to lift the ban, which went into effect in June 2018.[25]
Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article.
^ a b Appel, Jacob (2009-06-01). "Must Physicians Report Impaired Driving? Rethinking a Duty on a Collision Course with Itself". The Journal of Clinical Ethics. 20 (2): 136–140. doi:10.1086/JCE200920204. ISSN 1046-7890.
^ "Think driving is all about practical skills?". Easy to Drive. Archived from the original on 2008-01-17.
Appel, Jacob (2009-06-01). "Must Physicians Report Impaired Driving? Rethinking a Duty on a Collision Course with Itself". The Journal of Clinical Ethics. 20 (2): 136–140. doi:10.1086/JCE200920204. ISSN 1046-7890.
^ Hubbard, Ben (September 26, 2017). "Saudi Arabia Agrees to Let Women Drive". The New York Times.
^ "Getting moving". Driving Test Advice. Archived from the original on 2009-03-16.
The origin of the term driver, as recorded from the 15th century, refers to the occupation of driving working animals, especially pack horses or draft horses. The verb ' to drive ' in origin means "to force to move, to impel by physical force". It is first recorded of electric railway drivers in 1889 and of a motor-car driver in 1896. Early alternatives were motorneer,[1] motor-man, motor-driver or motorist.French favors "conducteur" (the English equivalent, "conductor", being used—from the 1830s—not of the driver but of the person in charge of passengers and collecting fares), while German influenced areas adopted Fahrer (used of coach-drivers in the 18th century, but shortened about 1900 from the compound Kraftwagen Fahrer), and the verbs führen, lenken, steuern—all with a meaning "steer, guide, navigate"—translating to conduire.
^ "Here's what Omani women say about Saudi lifting its ban on women drivers". Times of Oman. Archived from the original on June 29, 2018. Retrieved 28 June 2018.
If the vehicle is equipped with a manual transmission, to modulate the clutch
"Distracted Driving | NHTSA". National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Retrieved 2023-03-06.
Jensen, Christopher (June 17, 2011). "Taming a Mountain Road With Horses and Cars". The New York Times. Retrieved 2011-09-29. That was the day that F. O. Stanley and his wife, Flora, decided it would be good publicity for their steam-powered Stanley Locomobile if it were the first car to be driven up the 7.6-mile Mount Washington Carriage Road.
Hubbard, Ben (September 26, 2017). "Saudi Arabia Agrees to Let Women Drive". The New York Times.
^ a b Jensen, Christopher (June 17, 2011). "Taming a Mountain Road With Horses and Cars". The New York Times. Retrieved 2011-09-29. That was the day that F. O. Stanley and his wife, Flora, decided it would be good publicity for their steam-powered Stanley Locomobile if it were the first car to be driven up the 7.6-mile Mount Washington Carriage Road.
Car ownership does not require a driver's license at all. As such, even with a withdrawn driver's license, former drivers are still legally allowed to possess a car and thus have access to it. In the USA, between 1993 and 1997 13.8% of all drivers involved in fatal crashes had no driver's license.[19]
In 1899, F. O. Stanley and his wife, Flora, drove their Stanley Steamer automobile, sometimes called a locomobile, to the summit of Mount Washington in New Hampshire in the United States to generate publicity for their automobile.[6] The 7.6-mile (12.2 km) journey took over two hours (not counting time to add more water); the descent was accomplished by putting the engine in low gear and much braking.[6]
In some countries, a basic both practical and theoretical knowledge of the rules of the road is assessed with a driving test(s) and those who pass are issued with a driving license.
"Here's what Omani women say about Saudi lifting its ban on women drivers". Times of Oman. Archived from the original on June 29, 2018. Retrieved 28 June 2018.
Avoiding or successfully handling an emergency driving situation can involve the following skills:[9]
Desapriya, E.; Wijeratne, H.; Subzwari, S.; Babul-Wellar, S.; Turcotte, K.; Rajabali, F.; Kinney, J.; Pike, I. (2011).Desapriya, Ediriweera (ed.). "Vision screening of older drivers for preventing road traffic injuries and fatalities". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (3): CD006252. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD006252.pub3. PMID 21412894.
^ "Conditions and restrictions of a restricted licence". Driving Tests.
2Driving skills											Toggle Driving skills subsection																					2.1Physical skill																											2.2Mental skill																											2.3Safety
"Think driving is all about practical skills?". Easy to Drive. Archived from the original on 2008-01-17.
Drivers are subject to the laws of the jurisdiction in which they are driving.
Although direct operation of a bicycle and a mounted animal are commonly referred to as riding, such operators are legally considered drivers and are required to obey the rules of the road. Driving over a long distance is referred to as a road trip.
"Restrictions for L and P plate drivers - Keeping your licence - Your licence - GEARED"
Some countries require annual renewal of the driver's license. This may require getting through another driving test or vision screening test to get recertified.[17] Also, some countries use a points system for the driver's license. Both techniques (annual renewal with tests, points system) may or may not improve road safety compared to when the driver is not continuously or annually evaluated.[18]
Observing the environment for road signs, driving conditions, and hazards
"Fatal Distraction? A Comparison of the Cell-Phone Driver and the Drunk Driver"
"Here's what Omani women say about Saudi lifting its ban on women drivers"
Hard-Rock and Classic Music Could Lead to Road Accidents, New Survey Says
"Getting moving". Driving Test Advice. Archived from the original on 2009-03-16.
Driving in traffic is more than just knowing how to operate the mechanisms which control the vehicle; it requires knowing how to apply the rules of the road (which ensures safe and efficient sharing with other users). An effective driver also has an intuitive understanding of the basics of vehicle handling and can drive responsibly.[7]
Seizure disorders and Alzheimer's disease are among the leading medical causes of mental impairment among drivers in the United States and Europe.[14] Whether or not physicians should be allowed, or even required, to report such conditions to state authorities, remains highly controversial.[14]
